==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[gidday]]

===Etymology===
Contraction of {{m|en|good day}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡəˈdeɪ/|lang=en}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj|head=[[good|g’]][[day]]}}

# {{label|en|Australia|New Zealand|South Africa|colloquial}} [[hi|Hi]], [[hello]].
#* '''1901''', Bushwoman, “Lizer o' th' Overshot”, <cite>[http://nla.gov.au/nla.news-article71475695 Australian Town and Country Journal]</cite>, December 14:
#*: '''"G'day''', Missus," said he, with a jerk of his head, and he shifted from one leg to the other, and turned his hat over and over uneasily in his great brown hands.<br>{{...}}<br>'''"G'day,"''' said 'Lizer, with a bright smile that revealed the prettiest of white teeth. The girl's mouth was as fresh as a rose.<br>{{...}}<br>"'''G'day''', Missus, hope you're keepin' well, an' the Boss, an' the children. Got back sooner'n I expected; Well, how's my mate shapin?" said he.<br>{{...}}<br>It ain't no one's fault but mine," he said, generously. "'''G'day''', Missus; I'm goin' ter find my mate, alive-or dead;" and he galloped away.
#* {{quote-newsgroup
|title=Odd behaviour UPLOAD
|group=aus.computers.linux
|author=Ned Latham
|date=February 20
 2012
|passage='''G′day''', Muck.<br>{{...}}<br>Ned
|url=http://groups.google.com/group/aus.computers.linux/browse_thread/thread/9da0dff77369ae5e/9d1462a50cd325cb?hl=en&q=%22g%27day%22+group:aus.*#9d1462a50cd325cb}}
# {{label|en|North America|air traffic control|informal}} Denotes the end of a radio transmission.
#: ''Golf Golf Whiskey Golf, cleared the [[instrument landing system|ILS]] approach [[runway]] one two, contact Sault Tower one one eight decimal eight, '''g'day'''.''

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|good day}} Used interchangeably with {{m|en|hello}} and {{m|en|hi}}, but more characteristically (and stereotypically) Australian/New Zealand, and perhaps the most informal of these options. Also used in the constructions ''G′day, mate'' (a greeting to a friend or acquaintance) and ''G′day, stranger'' (ironically, to a friend not seen in some time).

[[Category:English contractions]]
[[Category:en:Greetings]]

[[es:g'day]]
[[ko:g'day]]
[[pl:g'day]]
[[fi:g'day]]
[[zh:g'day]]