{{also|Gag|GAG}}
==English==

===Etymology===
The verb is from 15th-century {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|gaggen}}, Early Modern English {{l|en|gagge}}, possibly imitative or perhaps related to or influenced by {{etyl|non|en}} (Old Icelandic) {{m|non|gaghals|gag-háls}} {{gloss|"with head thrown backwards"; > Norwegian dialectal {{m|no|gaga||bent backwards}}}}. The intransitive sense "to retch" is from 1707.

The noun is from the 16th century, figurative use (for "repression of speech") from the 1620s. The secondary meaning "(practical) joke" is from 1863, of unclear origin.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡæɡ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æɡ|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[device]] to [[restrain]] speech, such as a [[rag]] in the mouth secured with tape or a [[rubber]] [[ball]] threaded onto a cord or strap.
# {{lb|en|legal}} An [[order]] or [[rule]] forbidding discussion of a case or subject.
# A [[joke]] or other [[mischievous]] [[prank]].
#* {{quote-journal
|date=May 20, 2012
|author=Nathan Rabin
|title=TV: Review: THE SIMPSONS (CLASSIC): “Marge Gets A Job” (season 4, episode 7; originally aired 11/05/1992)
|work=The Onion AV Club
|url=http://www.avclub.com/articles/marge-gets-a-job,73723/
|page=
|passage=We all know how genius “Kamp Krusty,” “A Streetcar Named Marge,” “Homer The Heretic,” “Itchy & Scratchy: The Movie” and “Mr. Plow” are, but even the relatively unheralded episodes offer wall-to-wall laughs and some of the smartest, darkest, and weirdest '''gags''' ever Trojan-horsed into a network cartoon with a massive family audience.}}
# A [[convulsion]] of the upper [[digestive tract]].
# {{lb|en|archaic}} A mouthful that makes one retch or choke.
#* {{quote-book|year=1913|author=Webster
|title=Webster's revised unabridged dictionary of the English language
|chapter=|url=
|passage="a gag of mutton fat" --Lamb}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|legal}} {{l|en|gag order}}
* {{sense|joke}} See also [[Wikisaurus:joke]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|sight gag}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|device to restrain speech}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|prop}}, {{t+|nl|muilkorf}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|buŝoŝtopilo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suukapula}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bâillon|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Knebel|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|bavaglio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|knebel|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mordaça|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кляп|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|glas-ghuib|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mordaza|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|munkavle|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|order or rule forbidding discussion}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|suukapulamääräys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Maulkorberlass|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|joke or prank}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|шега|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|номер|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vitsi}}, {{t+|fi|pila}}, {{t+|fi|kepponen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Witz|m}}, {{t+|de|Gag|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|scenetta|f}}, {{t+|it|trovata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ギャグ|tr=gyagu}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шу́тка|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|convulsion}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|повдигане|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yökkäys}}
* French: {{t+|fr|haut-le-coeur}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|brekning|m|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kväljning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|gags|gagging|gagged}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To experience the vomiting reflex.
#: ''He '''gagged''' when he saw the open wound.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to heave with nausea.
#* Stephen King, ''A Very Tight Place''
#*: His empty stomach was suddenly full of butterflies, and for the first time since arriving here at scenic Durkin Grove Village, he felt an urge to '''gag''' himself. He would be able to think more clearly about this if he just stuck his fingers down his throat {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[restrain]] someone's speech by blocking his or her mouth.
#* {{quote-book|year=1905|author=[[w:Emma Orczy|Baroness Emmuska Orczy]]
|title=[[w:The Case of Miss Elliott|The Fate of the ''Artemis'']]
|chapter=1|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL8479084W
|passage=“{{...}} Captain Markam had been found lying half-insensible, '''gagged''' and bound, on the floor of the sitting-room, his hands and feet tightly pinioned, and a woollen comforter wound closely round his mouth and neck ; whilst Mrs. Markham's jewel-case, containing valuable jewellery and the secret plans of Port Arthur, had disappeared. {{...}}”}}
#: ''The victims could not speak because the burglar had '''gagged''' them with duct tape.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[pry]] or hold open by means of a gag.
#* {{rfdate}} Sir John Fortescue, ''De Laudibus Legum Angliae'' (translated by Francis Gregor)
#*: {{...}} some have their mouths '''gagged''' to such a wideness, for a long time, whereat such quantities of water are poured in, that their bellies swell to a prodigious degree {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|figuratively}} To restrain someone's speech without using physical means.
#: ''When the financial irregularities were discovered, the CEO '''gagged''' everyone in the accounting department.''
#* {{rfdate|and other bibliographic particulars}} {{w|Macaulay}}
#*: The time was not yet come when eloquence was to be '''gagged''', and reason to be hoodwinked.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|gag me with a spoon}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To experience the vomiting reflex}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|повдига ми се|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|干呕}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kokhalzen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yökätä}}, {{t+|fi|kakistella}}
* French: avoir un {{t+|fr|haut-le-cœur}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|würgen}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapoutiki}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|brekke|alt=brekke seg}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få kväljningar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To restrain someone's speech}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|knevelen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|suukapuloida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bâillonner}}
* German: {{t+|de|knebeln}}, {{t|de|mundtot machen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|imbavagliare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|amordaçar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|amordazar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:English palindromes]]
[[Category:en:Comedy]]

----

==Occitan==

===Noun===
{{oc-noun|m}}

# [[jay]]

[[Category:Occitan palindromes]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|gag}} {{gloss|joke}}