==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡeɪn/}}, {{SAMPA|/geIn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-gain.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪn}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[gain#Middle English|gain]], [[gein#Middle English|gein]]'' "profit, advantage" from {{etyl|non}} ''[[gagn]]'' "benefit, advantage, use" from {{proto|Germanic|gagan-|gain|lang=}}. Akin to {{etyl|is|-}} ''gagn'' "gain, advantage, use", {{etyl|sv|-}} ''gagn'' "benefit, profit", {{etyl|da|-}} ''gavn'' "gain", {{etyl|got|-}} ''gageigan'' "to gain", {{non}} ''[[gegn]]'' "ready"; compare {{enm}} ''[[gainen]]'' "to be of use, profit, avail", {{is}} and {{sv}} ''[[gagna]]'' "to avail, help", {{da}} ''[[gavne]]'' "to benefit".

The {{enm}} word was reinforced, and its frequency strengthened, due to similarity in form and meaning to an unrelated {{etyl|frm|-}} word ''[[gain#French|gain]]'' "advancement, cultivation", with which it was confused. {{frm}} ''gain'' is a contraction of {{etyl|fro|-}} ''[[gaaing|gaaing, ga(a)igne]]'', a noun derivative of ''[[gaaignier]]'' "to till, earn, win", also of {{etyl|gem}} origin, but from a different root, {{etyl|frk|-}} ''[[waidanjan]]'' "to pasture, graze, hunt for food" from {{proto|Germanic|waiðī||waiðō|pasture, field, hunting ground|lang=}}; compare {{etyl|goh|-}} ''[[weidanōn]]'' "to hunt, forage for food" ({{etyl|de|-}} ''[[Weide]]'' "pasture"), {{etyl|non|-}} ''[[veiðr]]'' "hunting", {{etyl|ang|-}} ''{{term|waþ|wāþ|lang=ang}}'' "hunting, chase, pursuit".

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of gaining.
# What one gains, as a return on investment or dividend.
#: ''No pain, no '''gain'''.''
# {{electronics}} The factor by which a [[signal]] is multiplied.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of gaining}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|voittaminen}}, {{t+|fi|voitto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|получение|n|tr=polučénije}}, {{t+|ru|приобретение|n|tr=priobreténije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|what one gains (profit)}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|վաստակ|tr=vastak}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zisk|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|winst|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|voitto}}, {{t+|fi|hyöty}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gain|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gewinn|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|haszon}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|進展|tr=shinten}}, {{t-|ja|進歩|tr=shinpo}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|utbytte|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سود|tr=sud|xs=Persian}},  {{t-|fa|بهره|tr=bahra|xs=Persian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прибыль|f|tr=príbyl'}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|factor by which signal is multiplied}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vahvistus}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|利得|tr=ritoku}}, {{t-|ja|増幅率|tr=zōfuku-ritsu}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|forsterkning|m+f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|усиление|n|tr=usilénije}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|förstärkning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--added {{ttbc}}s here.-->
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[guadagno]] (2) {{m}}, [[vincita]] {{f}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[vinning]] {{m}} (2), [[gevinst]] {{m}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[ganio]] (1,2)
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[얻음]] (eot-eum)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[ganho]] {{m}} (1,2)
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[câştig]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[లాభము]] (lAbhamu) (2)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[kazanmak]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
* [[loss]]

====Derived terms====
* [[autogain]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To acquire [[possession]] of what one did not have before.
# {{transitive}} To [[increase]].
# {{transitive}} To be more likely to catch or overtake an individual.
# {{transitive}} To [[reach]]
# {{intransitive}} To [[put on weight]]
# {{context|of a clock or watch}} To run [[fast]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top| acquire }}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verkrijgen}}, {{t+|nl|winnen}}, {{t+|nl|bekomen}}
* Finnish: [[saavuttaa]], [[päästä]] [[päämäärä]]än
* French: {{t|fr|gagner}}
* German: {{t+|de|gewinnen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κερδίζω}} (kerdízo), {{t+|el|αποκτώ}} (apoktó)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|קיבל}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[ganiar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|guadagnare}}
* Korean: [[얻다]] (eot-da)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ganhar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|получать|tr=polučát'}}, {{t+|ru|приобретать|tr=priobretát'}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ganar}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[పొందు]] (pomdu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[agin#English|agin]]}}
* [[Agni#English|Agni]]
* [[gina#English|gina]], [[Gina#English|Gina]]

----

==Basque==

===Noun===
{{infl|eu|noun}}

# [[summit]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fro|fr}} {{term|gaaing|lang=fro}}, from the verb {{term|gaaingnier|lang=fro}}, whence the Modern French {{term|gagner|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡɛ̃/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-gain.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|usually in plural}} [[winnings]], [[earnings]], [[takings]]
# {{finance|lang=fr}} [[#English|gain]], [[yield]]

[[zh-min-nan:gain]]
[[cy:gain]]
[[de:gain]]
[[et:gain]]
[[el:gain]]
[[es:gain]]
[[fa:gain]]
[[fr:gain]]
[[ko:gain]]
[[io:gain]]
[[id:gain]]
[[it:gain]]
[[kn:gain]]
[[kk:gain]]
[[ku:gain]]
[[li:gain]]
[[hu:gain]]
[[ml:gain]]
[[my:gain]]
[[ja:gain]]
[[pl:gain]]
[[pt:gain]]
[[ru:gain]]
[[simple:gain]]
[[fi:gain]]
[[sv:gain]]
[[ta:gain]]
[[te:gain]]
[[th:gain]]
[[uk:gain]]
[[vi:gain]]
[[zh:gain]]