==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Eponym.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[poll]] of the [[opinion]] of [[random]]ly chosen [[person]]s, used to represent the opinion of the [[public]], conducted by [[w:George Gallup|George Gallup]] or one the companies he founded.
# {{context|by extension|informal}} Any [[poll]] of the [[opinion]] of [[random]]ly chosen [[person]]s, used to represent the opinion of the [[public]].
#* '''1971''', [[w:Herman Wouk|Herman Wouk]], [[w:The Winds of War|The Winds of War]], chapter 42,
#*: "Pity we live in the same century with that strange creature. Say, we have here two men who talked at length face to face with the fellow. Let's take a '''Gallup poll'''. Sumner, do you think Hitler is a madman?"
#* '''1988''', Martha E. Gellhorn, ''The View from the Ground'', Atlantic Monthly Press, ISBN 0871132125, page 223,
#*: My tiny personal '''Gallup poll''' unearthed plenty of refugees who were happy where they were and had no desire to return to Palestine, no matter what;...&nbsp;.
#* '''1999''' (date of publication), The Freedom Writers and Erin Gruwell, ''The Freedom Writers <!--sic no apostrophe--> Diary'', ISBN 038549422X, Diary 54,
#*: It was like that until I transferred to Ms. Gruwell's class. Up until that point it had always been: "So, Joyce, how do black people feel about Affirmative Action?"...
#*: I just new I wouldn't have to keep sending '''Gallup polls''' out to Negroes all around the country. And that is how I found myself starting my junior year in Ms. Gruwell's class.

[[Category:English eponyms]]

[[et:Gallup poll]]
[[my:Gallup poll]]