==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|game}}, {{m|enm|gamen}}, {{m|enm|gammen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|gamen||sport, joy, mirth, pastime, game, amusement, pleasure}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*gamaną||amusement, pleasure, game", literally "participation, communion, people together}}, from {{m|gem-pro|*ga-|pos=collective prefix}} + {{m|gem-pro|*mann-||man}}; or alternatively from {{m|gem-pro|*ga-}} + a root from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*men-||to think, have in mind}}. Cognate with {{cog|gmh|gamen||joy, amusement, fun, pleasure}}, {{cog|sv|gamman||mirth, rejoicing, merriment}}, {{cog|is|gaman||fun}}. Related to {{l|en|gammon}}, {{l|en|gamble}}.

* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

===Noun===
<br />

# A playful or competitive activity.
## A playful activity that may be unstructured; an amusement or pastime.
##: 
## An activity described by a set of rules, especially for the purpose of entertainment, often competitive or having an explicit goal.
##*'''1983''', Lawrence Lasker & al., '':''
##*: ''Joshua:'' Shall we play a '''game'''?<br>''David:'' ... Love to. How about Global Thermonuclear War?<br>''Joshua:'' Wouldn't you prefer a good '''game''' of chess?<br>''David:'' Later. Let's play Global Thermonuclear War.<br>''Joshua:'' Fine.
##* '''1991''', , ''The Liar'', p. 37:
##*: From time to time, track-suited boys ran past them, with all the deadly purpose and humourless concentration of those who enjoyed '''Games'''.
##:{{ux|en|'''Games''' in the classroom can make learning fun.}}
## A particular instance of playing a game; match.
##:{{ux|en|Sally won the '''game'''.}}
##: {{ux|en|They can turn the '''game''' around in the second half.}}
##*: “I'm through with all pawn-games,” I laughed. “Come, let us have a '''game''' of lansquenet. Either I will take a farewell fall out of you or you will have your sevenfold revenge”.
## That which is gained, such as the stake in a game.
## The number of points necessary to win a game.
##:{{ux|en|In short whist, five points are '''game'''.}}
## In some games, a point awarded to the player whose cards add up to the largest sum.
## The equipment that enables such activity, particularly as packaged under a title.
##:{{ux|en|Some of the '''games''' in the closet we have on the computer as well.}}
## One's manner, style, or performance in playing a game.
##: {{ux|en|Study can help your '''game''' of chess.}}
##: {{ux|en|Hit the gym if you want to toughen up your '''game'''.}}
##*'''1951''', , , chapter 11:
##*: I played golf with her that same afternoon. She lost eight balls, I remember. Eight. I had a terrible time getting her to at least open her eyes when she took a swing at the ball. I improved her '''game''' immensely, though.
## An amorous dalliance.
##* 
# A video game.
#* 
# A field of gainful activity, as an industry or profession.
#:{{ux|en|When it comes to making sales, John is the best in the '''game'''.}}
#: {{ux|en|He's in the securities '''game''' somehow.}}
# Something that resembles a game with rules, despite not being designed.
#:{{ux|en|In the '''game''' of life, you may find yourself playing the waiting '''game''' far too often.}}
#*: I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips, straining upon the start. The '''game'''’s afoot!
#*: “I'm through with all pawn-'''games''',” I laughed. “Come, let us have a game of lansquenet. Either I will take a farewell fall out of you or you will have your sevenfold revenge”.
#* 
# An exercise simulating warfare, whether computerized or involving human participants.
# Wild animals hunted for food.
#:{{ux|en|The forest has plenty of '''game'''.}}
# The ability to seduce someone, usually by strategy.
#:{{ux|en|He didn't get anywhere with her because he had no '''game'''.}}
#* , ''She's Strange'' (song)
#*: She's strange, so strange, but I didn't complain. She said yes to me when I ran my '''game'''.
# Mastery; the ability to excel at something.
#* 
#* 
# A questionable or unethical practice in pursuit of a goal; a scheme.
#:{{ux|en|You want to borrow my credit card for a week? What's your '''game'''?}}
#*: Your murderous '''game''' is nearly up.
#*: It was obviously Lord Macaulay's '''game''' to blacken the greatest literary champion of the cause he had set himself to attack.

====Synonyms====
* See also Thesaurus:game
* {{sense|synonyms to be checked}} , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
* {{sense|instance of gameplay}} 
* {{sense|field of gainful activity}} 
* {{sense|military}} 
* {{sense|business or occupation}} 
* {{sense|questionable practices}} 

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|antonyms to be checked}} , , 

====Derived terms====
====Descendants====
* , 
* 
* 
* , 
* 
* 
* 

====Translations====
===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}<!--NOTE: compar & superl confirmed as existing in other dictionaries-->

# {{lb|en|colloquial}} Willing to participate.
#* {{quote-journal|en|author=Robbie Collin|title=Grimsby review: ' Sacha Baron Cohen's vital, venomous action movie'|work={{w|The Daily Telegraph}} (London)|date=23 February 2016|passage=Some of Grimsby’s other (extraordinarily up-to-date) targets include Donald Trump and Daniel Radcliffe, whose fates here are too breath-catchingly cruel to spoil, and also the admirably '''game''' Strong, whose character is beset by a constant stream of humiliations that hit with the force of a jet of…well, you’ll see.}}
# {{lb|en|of an animal}} That shows a tendency to continue to fight against another animal, despite being wounded, often severely.
# Persistent, especially in senses similar to the above.
# Injured, lame (of a limb).
#* '''around 1900''', O. Henry, ''[[s:Lost on Dress Parade|Lost on Dress Parade]]''
#*: You come with me and we'll have a cozy dinner and a pleasant talk together, and by that time your '''game''' ankle will carry you home very nicely, I am sure."

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|willing to participate}} {{l|en|sporting}}, {{l|en|willing}}, {{l|en|daring}}, {{l|en|disposed}}, {{l|en|favorable}}, {{l|en|nervy}}, {{l|en|courageous}}, {{l|en|valiant}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|willing to participate}} {{l|en|cautious}}, {{l|en|disinclined}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|willing to participate}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|охотен|sc=Cyrl}}
* German: {{t+|de|bereit}}, {{t+|de|dabei}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|með}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|med}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dentro}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|med}}, {{t+|sv|på}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|gam}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[gamble]].
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To play [[video game]]s.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To exploit loopholes in a [[system]] or [[bureaucracy]] in a way which defeats or nullifies the spirit of the rules in effect, usually to obtain a result which otherwise would be unobtainable.
#: ''We'll bury them in paperwork, and '''game''' the system.''
# {{lb|en|transitive|slang|of males}} To [[perform]] premeditated [[seduction]] strategy.
#* '''2005''', "[http://www.economist.com/node/4484080 Picking up the pieces]", ''The Economist'', 6 October 2005:
#*: Returning briefly to his journalistic persona to interview Britney Spears, he finds himself '''gaming''' her, and she gives him her phone number.
#* '''2010''', Mystery, ''The Pickup Artist: The New and Improved Art of Seduction'', Villard Books (2010), {{ISBN|9780345518217}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=8d_zuJ-H4-UC&pg=PA100&dq=%22gaming%22 page 100]:
#*: A business associate of mine at the time, George Wu, sat across the way, '''gaming''' a stripper the way I taught him.
#* '''2010''', Sheila McClear, "[http://www.nypost.com/p/entertainment/would_you_date_pickup_artist_vH53Jh9hJ6DOCVXsMYJvnN Would you date a pickup artist?]", ''New York Post'', 9 July 2010:
#*: How did Amanda know she wasn’t getting '''gamed'''? Well, she didn’t. “I would wonder, ‘Is he saying stuff to other girls that he says to me?’ We did everything we could to cut it off . . . yet we somehow couldn’t.”

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|game the system}}
* {{l|en|gamer}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|to gamble|gamble}}

{{trans-top|To play games and be a gamer}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|играя|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pelata}}, {{t+|fi|pelailla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+check|de|zocken}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|grać|impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to defeat the rules in order to obtain a result}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huijata}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|burlar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|burlar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aegm|mage|mega|mega-}}

[[Category:English basic words]]
[[Category:en:Ball games]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|nl|Nl-game.ogg|Audio}}

===Verb===
{{head|nl|verb form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|gamen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|n=sg|t=pres|m=subj|gamen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|gamen}}

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology 1===
From  {{inh|enm|ang|gamen}}, {{m|ang|gomen}}; from {{inh|enm|gem-pro|*gamaną}}, of disputed origin.

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|enm|gamen|gemen|gomen|gome|gammen|gaume|gamme|gamin|gomin|gomyn|gomun|gam|geme}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|enm|/ˈɡaːm(ə)/|/ˈɡam(ə)/|/ˈɡaːmən/|/ˈɡamən/}}
* {{a|from OE {{l|ang|gomen}}}} {{IPA|enm|/ˈɡɔːm(ə)/|/ˈɡɔːmən/}}
* {{a|Kent}} {{IPA|enm|/ˈɡɛːm(ə)/|/ˈɡɛːmən/}}

====Noun====
{{enm-noun|games|pl2=game}}

# [[entertainment|Entertainment]] or an instance of it; that which is enjoyable:
## A [[sport]] or other [[outdoor]] or physical activity.
## A {{l|en|game}}; a codified (and often competitive) form of entertainment.
## Sexual or romantic [[entertainment]] or [[activity]] {{gloss|including [[intercourse]] in itself}}.
## An amusing, joking, or [[humorous]] activity or event.
# Any kind of [[event]] or [[occurrence]]; something that happens:
## An [[endeavour]]; a set of actions towards a goal.
## Any kind of activity having [[competition]] or [[rivalry]].
# The state of being [[happy]] or [[joyful]].
# {{l|en|game|Game}}; wild animals hunted for food.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} One's quarry; that which one is trying to catch.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} [[gamesmanship|Gamesmanship]]; gaming behaviour.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} The reward for winning a game.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|gameful}}
* {{l|en|gamely}}
* {{l|en|gamen}}

=====Descendants=====
* {{desc|en|game}}, {{l|en|gammon}} {{q|dialectal {{m|en|gam}}}} {{see desc}}
* {{desc|sco|gemme}}, {{l|sco|gem}}, {{l|sco|gyem}}

=====References=====
* {{R:MED Online|entry=gāme |part of speech= n |id= MED18146 |accessdate=2019-07-09}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|enm|ang|gæmnian}}, {{m|ang|gamnian}}, {{m|ang|gamenian}}.

====Verb====
{{head|enm|verb}}

# {{alt form|enm|gamen}}

[[Category:enm:Emotions]]
[[Category:enm:Entertainment]]
[[Category:enm:Games]]
[[Category:enm:Hunting]]
[[Category:enm:Meats]]
[[Category:enm:Sex]]
[[Category:enm:Sports]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology 1===
Borrowed from {{bor|pt|en|game}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|Brazil}} {{IPA|pt|/ˈɡejm/|/ˈɡej.mi/}}

====Noun====
{{pt-noun|m}}

# {{lb|pt|Brazil|slang}} {{l|en|electronic game}} {{gloss|game played on an electronic device, such as a [[computer game]], a [[video game]] or the like}}

=====Quotations=====
{{seeCites|pt}}

=====See also=====
* {{l|pt|jogo}}

===Etymology 2===

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|Brazil}} {{IPA|pt|/ˈɡɐ.mi/}}

====Verb====
{{head|pt|verb form}}

# {{pt-verb-form-of|gamar|e}}

{{catlangname|pt|terms with multiple etymologies}}
{{topics|pt|Video games}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{lb|es|tennis}} {{l|en|game}}