{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Gas|gás|gås|gãs|gæs|gaas}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/gæs/}}, {{SAMPA|/g{s/}}
* {{audio|en-us-gas.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æs}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|nl}} {{term|gas|lang=nl}}, a word coined by chemist Van Helmont. Perhaps inspired by Dutch & Flemish ''gheest'' "breath, vapour, spirit" or from {{etyl|grc}} {{term|χάος||chasm, void|tr=khaos|sc=polytonic|lang=grc}}. More at [[ghost]], [[ghastly]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# {{uncountable|chemistry}} Matter in a state intermediate between [[liquid]] and [[plasma]] that can be contained only if it is fully surrounded by a [[solid]] (or held together by gravitational pull); it can [[condense]] into a liquid, or can (rarely) become a [[solid]] directly.
#: ''A lot of '''gas''' had escaped from the cylinder''
# {{countable|chemistry}} A chemical element or compound in such a state.
#: ''The atmosphere is made up of a number of different '''gases'''''
# {{uncountable}} An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon or hydrocarbon mixture (typically predominantly methane) used as a fuel, e.g. for cooking, heating or electricity generation.
#: '''''Gas'''-fired power stations have largely replaced coal-burning ones.''
# {{US}} Methane or other waste gases trapped in one's belly as a result of the digestive process.
#: ''My tummy hurts so bad, I have '''gas'''.''
# {{slang}} A humorous or entertaining event or person.
#: ''He is such a '''gas'''!''
# {{baseball}} A [[fastball]].
#: ''The closer threw him nothing but '''gas'''.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|state of matter}} [[vapor]] / [[vapour]]
* {{sense|digestive process}} [[wind]], [[fart]] (when gas is released) {{qualifier|US|slang}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[gas giant]]
* [[gaslight]]
* [[gasometer]]
* [[LP gas]]
* [[natural gas]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|state of matter}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|غاز|m|tr=gház}}
* Armenian: [[գազ]] (gaz)
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|газ|m|tr=haz|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|газ|m|tr=gaz}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|氣體|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|气体|tr=qìtǐ|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|氣|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|气|tr=qì|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|plin|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|plyn|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gas|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaasu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gaz|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გაზი|tr=gazi|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gas|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αέριο|n|tr=aério}}, {{t+|el|ατμός|m|tr=atmós}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|גז|m|tr=gáz}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|गैस|tr=gais|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gáz}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|gas|n}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|gas|xs=Interlingua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gas|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|気体|tr=[[きたい]], kitai}},  {{t+|ja|ガス|tr=gasu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|가스|tr=gaseu}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|gāze|f|xs=Latvian}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|گاز|tr=gāz|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|gaz|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gás|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|газ|m|tr=gaz}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|plin|m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|plyn|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|gas|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gas|c}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ก๊าซ|tr=gáat}},  {{t|th|แก๊ส|tr= gáet}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|gaz}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|газ|m|tr=haz|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|گیس|xs=Urdu}},  {{t|ur|فارغہ|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|khí tê|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t|vi|khí|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t|vi|chất khí|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|nwy}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|gas|n|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|gas in digestion}}
* German: {{t+|de|Blähung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αέριο|n|tr=aério}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|גזים|gázim|m|p|tr=}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ガス|tr=gasu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|gāze|f|xs=Latvian}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|газы|m|p|tr=gázy}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|gaser|c|p}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|gaz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bosnian}}: gas {{m}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[gaz]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: gas
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[gaz]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: gas {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[fluid]]
* [[liquid]]
* [[solid]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|gases|gassing|gassed}}

# To [[kill]] with poisonous [[gas#Noun|gas]].
# To [[talk]], [[chat]].
# To emit gas.
#: ''The battery cell '''was''' gassing.''

===Etymology 2===
Shortened from {{term|gasoline}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{uncountable|US}} [[gasoline|Gasoline]]; a derivative of [[petroleum]] used as [[fuel]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|gasoline}} [[gasoline]] {{qualifier|US}}, [[petrol]] {{qualifier|Commonwealth}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[gas-guzzler]]
* [[gasohol]]
* [[gas up]]
* [[gasoline]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fuel}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|բենզին|tr=benzin}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|汽油|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|benzín|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|benzine|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|bensiini}}, {{t+|fi|bensa}}
* German: {{t+|de|Benzin|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βενζίνη|f|tr=venzíni}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|דלק|m|tr=délek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|gasolina|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|benzina|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|ガソリン|tr=[[がそりん]], gasorin}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|benzyna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gasolina|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|benzină}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бензин|m|tr=b'enzín}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|benzín|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|[[gases]] or [[gasses]]|[[gassing]]|[[gassed]]}}

# {{US}} To give a vehicle more fuel in order to accelerate it.
#: '' The cops are coming. '''Gas''' it!''
# {{US}} To fill (a vehicle's fuel tank) with fuel

===Etymology 3===
<!-- from one of the above? presumably the first noun? -->
Confer slang term "a gas", above.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{Ireland|colloquial}} [[comical]], [[zany]].
#: ''Mary's new boyfriend is a '''gas''' man.''
#: ''It was '''gas''' when the bird flew into the classroom.''

=====Usage notes=====
* This is common in speech, but rarely used in writing.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|ags}}
* [[sag#English|sag]], [[SAG#English|SAG]]
* [[SGA#English|SGA]]

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=n|pl=gassen|dim=*}}

# [[#English|gas]]

====Derived terms====
* [[gasleiding]]
* [[gasvormig]]
* [[gasvorming]]

----

==Galician==

===Noun===
{{gl-noun|m|gases}}

# [[#English|gas]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|gas}} [[vapor#Galician|vapor]]

====Derived terms====
* [[gas nobre]]

====Related terms====
* [[gasoso]]

[[Category:gl:Chemistry]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
{{infl|is|noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|gas]] (state of matter)

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|ags}}
* [[sag#Icelandic|sag]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
{{infl|id|noun}}

# [[#English|gas]]

----

==[[Interlingua]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|ia|noun}}

# [[#English|gas]]

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[ɡasˠ]}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ga|noun|g=m}}

# [[stalk]]

====Declension====
{{ga-noun-m1|g|as|ais}}

{{ga mut cons|g|as}}

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{infl|it|noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|gas]] (state of matter, petroleum)
# [[petrol]]
# [[poison gas]]

====Synonyms====
* [[benzina]] (petroleum)

====Related terms====
* [[gasare]]
* [[gasolina]]
* [[gassare]]
* [[gassificare]]
* [[gassista]]
* [[gassometro]]
* [[gassoso]]

----

==Rohingya==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|bn|rhg}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|rhg|noun}}

# [[tree]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=gȃs|r|гас|га̑с}}

# (''Bosnian, Serbian'') [[#English|gas]] (state of matter)

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|gȃs|gásovi
|gasa|gásōvā
|gasu|gasovima
|gas|gasove
|gase|gasovi
|gasu|gasovima
|gasom|gasovima
}}

====Synonyms====
* (''Croatian''): {{l|sh|plin|plȋn}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m|pl=gases}}

# [[#English|gas]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-gas.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-er|sg-gen-indef=gas}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}

# [[#English|gas]]; a state of matter
# gas; a compound or element in such a state
# gas; gaseous fuels
# {{context|plural only: [[gaser]]}} gas; waste gas

====Derived terms====
* [[avgas]]
* [[biogas]]
* [[gasbehållare]]
* [[gasformig]]
* [[gasledning]]
* [[gaslykta]]
* [[gaslåga]]
* [[gasverk]]
* [[ge gas]] / [[ge mer gas]] / [[gasa]]. To [[accelerate]] a motor vehicle.
* [[ha gaser]]
* [[naturgas]]
* [[rötgas]]
* [[stadsgas]]
* [[sumpgas]]

----

==[[West Frisian]]==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/gas/|lang=fy}}

===Noun===
{{infl|fy|noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|gas]]

[[af:gas]]
[[zh-min-nan:gas]]
[[de:gas]]
[[et:gas]]
[[el:gas]]
[[es:gas]]
[[fa:gas]]
[[fr:gas]]
[[gl:gas]]
[[ko:gas]]
[[hr:gas]]
[[io:gas]]
[[is:gas]]
[[it:gas]]
[[kn:gas]]
[[kk:gas]]
[[lo:gas]]
[[lt:gas]]
[[li:gas]]
[[hu:gas]]
[[ml:gas]]
[[my:gas]]
[[nl:gas]]
[[ja:gas]]
[[no:gas]]
[[oc:gas]]
[[pl:gas]]
[[ru:gas]]
[[simple:gas]]
[[sr:gas]]
[[fi:gas]]
[[sv:gas]]
[[tl:gas]]
[[ta:gas]]
[[te:gas]]
[[th:gas]]
[[tr:gas]]
[[vi:gas]]
[[wo:gas]]
[[zh:gas]]