==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Possibly modelled on {{m|en|muslim pride}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A feeling of pride in buggery.
#* '''1971''', Donn Teal, ''The gay militants'', [//books.google.co.uk/books?id=iyUEAQAAIAAJ&q=gay+pride&dq=gay+pride&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kZeqT72_C8bBhAeG8ImjAg&redir_esc=y page 85]:
#*: '''Gay Pride''', for all its need to show off, did not alienate old-liners of the homophile movement, nor uncommitted young and middle-aged gays, nor even old and/or closety homosexuals.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a feeling of pride in one's homosexuality}}
* Arabic: {{t-needed|ar}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|gey prayd}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|同性戀自豪|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|同性恋自豪|tr=tóngxìngliàn zìháo|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|同志自豪|tr=tóngzhì zìháo|sc=Hani}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|gejfiero}}, {{t|eo|gejfiereco}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pride}}
* French: {{t|fr|Gay Pride|m}}, {{t|fr|Fierté Gaie|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Gay Pride}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|गे प्राइड|m|tr=gē prā'iḍ|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|गे गर्व|m|tr=gē garv|sc=Deva}}
* Italian: {{t-needed|it}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ゲイ・プライド|tr=gei-puraido|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|게이 프라이드|sc=Kore}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|orgulho gay|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гей-пра́йд|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|orgullo gay|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pride|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Further reading===
* {{pedia|Black pride}}

[[Category:en:LGBT]]
PLEASE CONTACT ME AT: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Amorymeltzer

about the following: I use the Modern skin — if anything doesn't look right to you, upgrade! 
 
 	Amory has a very distracting family and will likely be editing erratically until the kids stop being cute.	 

Mostly Harmless[edit]
• I am a reader first and an editor second.
• I use the word sysop instead of admin wherever possible. You should too. 
Words erroneously repeated[edit]
 
Consensus has determined that this is the single greatest image hosted by Wikimedia. 
 
“ 	Nothing shocks me. I'm a scientist. 	” 	   
— Indiana Jones 			 
(click for a new quote) 
The jewel of night[edit]
• The only essay you'll ever need
• /recall | /rfa | /scripts
• If you ever find yourself either happy or unhappy, even marginally, as a result of something I have or haven't done, let me know! 



BEWARE of incurring my displeasure! I am very important! I AM the Wikipedia! Do not waste my time.

If my valuable time is gifted elsewhere you must contact my assistant: (DO NOT waste his time either!) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Favonian