==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/dʒɛndə/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/dʒɛndɚ/}}
* {{rhymes|ɛndə(ɹ)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|gendre|lang=frm}}, {{term|genre|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|genus||kind, sort|lang=la}}. The verb developed after the noun.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|grammar|lang=en}} A division of nouns and pronouns (and sometimes of other parts of speech), such as [[masculine]], [[feminine]], [[neuter]] or [[common]].
# {{context|sometimes|_|proscribed|lang=en}}<!--by those who distinguish sex and gender--> The biological [[sex]] of an individual (usually [[male]] or [[female]] and sometimes [[intersex]]).
# The mental [[analogue]] of [[sex]]: one's [[maleness]] ([[masculinity]]) or [[femaleness]] ([[femininity]]). {{qualifier|Also called ''[[gender identity]]''.}}
# The sociocultural phenomenon of the division of people into various categories such as "[[male]]" and "[[female]]", with each having associated clothing, roles, stereotypes, etc.
#* '''1993''', David Spurr, ''The Rhetoric of Empire: Colonial Discourse in Journalism, Travel Writing, and Imperial Administration'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=174l3L-AfjEC&pg=PA187&lpg=PA187 page 187]:
#*: The annals of colonial history offer relatively few such encounters between women, and it may be that '''gender''' has created here a marginal space in which something like an actual dialogue is possible between British and Sudanese.
#* '''2004''', Wenona Mary Giles, Jennifer Hyndman, ''Sites of violence: gender and conflict zones'', page 28:
#*: '''Gender''' does not necessarily have primacy in this respect. Economic class and ethnic differentiation can also be important relational hierarchies, {{...}}. But these other differentiations are always also gendered, and in turn they help construct what is a man or a woman in any given circumstance. So while '''gender''' is binary, its components have varied expressions.
#* '''2005''', Colin Renfrew, Paul Bahn, ''Archaeology: The Key Concepts'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=H1-8rIfg-qcC&pg=PA131&lpg=PA131 page 131]:
#*: Even with some adamant processualists, however, '''gender''' has made inroads.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[class]]; [[kind]]
#* Shakespeare
#*: one '''gender''' of herbs

=====Quotations=====
* '''1995''', Judith Lorber, ''Paradoxes of Gender'' - Page ix
*: I made a distinction between '''gender''' as a social phenomenon and the social phenomenon of biological sex.
* '''2012''', Elizabeth Reis, ''American Sexual Histories'', page 5
*: Intersex people too challenge the idea that physical sex, not merely '''gender''', is binary – a person must be definitively either one sex or the other.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|Derived terms}}
* [[agender]]
* [[bigender]]
* [[cisgender]]
* [[gender binary]]
* [[gender continuum]]
* [[gender dysphoria]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[gendered]]
* [[gender expression]]
* [[genderfluid]]
* [[genderfuck]]
* [[gender identity]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[gender identity disorder]]; [[GID]]
* [[genderism]]
* [[genderland]]
* [[gender presentation]]
* [[genderqueer]]; [[GQ]]
* [[gender role]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[gender spectrum]]
* [[gender studies]]
* [[gender-variant]]
* [[third gender]]
* [[transgender]]; [[TG]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|grammar: division of nouns and pronouns}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|geslag}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|gjini}}
* {{trreq|am}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|جنس|m|tr=jins}}
* {{trreq|an}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սեռ|tr=seṙ}}
* Azeri: {{t|az|cins}}
* {{trreq|as}}
* Asturian: {{t-|ast|xéneru|m}}
* {{trreq|ay}}
* Azeri: {{t-|az|cins}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|род|m|tr=rod|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|род|m|tr=rod|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|လိင်|tr=lein|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|gènere|m}}
* Chechen: {{tø|ce|род}}
* {{trreq|chr}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|性別|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|性别|tr=xìngbié|sc=Hani}}
* {{trreq|co}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rod|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|køn|n}}
* {{trreq|dv}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geslacht|n}}, {{t+|nl|genus|n}}
* {{trreq|eo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|sugu}}
* {{trreq|ee}}
* {{trreq|ext}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|kyn|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|genre|m}}
* {{trreq|fur}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|xénero|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|სქესი|tr=sk'esi|sc=Geor}}, {{t+|ka|გენდერი|tr=genderi|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschlecht|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γένος|n|tr=ghénos}}
* Gujarati: {{t-|gu|લિંગ|tr=ling|sc=Gujr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|लिंग|m|tr=liṅg|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nem}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kyn|n}}
* {{trreq|io}}
* {{trreq|ig}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|jenis}}
* {{trreq|ia}}
* {{trreq|ie}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|inscne|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|性|tr=せい, sei}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|genre|m}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|род|m|tr=rod|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|លិង្គ|tr=lɨng|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|성|tr=seong|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|性|sc=Hani}})
* Latin: {{t+|la|genus|n}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|dzimte|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|lytis|m}}
* {{trreq|lg}}
* {{trreq|lb}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|род|m|tr=rod}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|gender}}
* {{trreq|ml}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|sess|m}}
* {{trreq|mr}}
* {{trreq|mwl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kjønn|n}}
* {{trreq|nov}}
* {{trreq|oc}}
* Oriya: {{t|or|ଲିଙ୍ଗ|sc=Orya}}
* {{trreq|ps}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|جنس|tr=jens|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rodzaj|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gênero}}
* {{trreq|pa}}
* {{trreq|raj}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|gen|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|род|m|tr=rod}}
* Sanskrit: {{t-|sa|लिंग|m|tr=liṅga|sc=Deva}}
* {{trreq|sc}}
* {{trreq|sco}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|gnè|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|род|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|rod|m}}
* {{trreq|scn}}
* {{trreq|sd}}
* {{trreq|si}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|rod|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|spol|m}}
* {{trreq|so}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|género|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|genus|n}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ลิงค์|tr=ling|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|cins}}, {{t+|tr|cinsiyet}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|рід|m|tr=rid|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|لنگ|m|tr=liṅg|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|giống}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|biological sex of persons or animals}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|geslag}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|gjini}}
* {{trreq|am}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|جنس|m|tr=jins}}
* {{trreq|an}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սեռ|tr=seṙ}}
* Asturian: {{t-|ast|sexu|m}}
* Azeri: {{t|az|cins}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|пол|m|tr=pol|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|плоць|f|tr=plocʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|লিঙ্গ|tr=ling|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|пол|m|tr=pol|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|လိင်|tr=lei|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|sexe|m}}
* {{trreq|chr}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|性別|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|性别|tr=xìngbié|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pohlaví|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|køn|n}}
* {{trreq|dv}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geslacht|n}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|sugu}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|kyn|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukupuoli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sexe|m}}
* {{trreq|fur}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|sexo|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|სქესი|tr=sk'esi|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschlecht|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φύλο|n|tr=fílo}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מגדר|tr=migdár}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|लिंग|m|tr=liṅg|sc=Deva}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kyn|n}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|jenis}}, {{t|id|jenis kelamin}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|gnéas|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|性|tr=せい, sei}}, {{t+|ja|性別|tr=せいべつ, seibetsu}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|жыныс|tr=jınıs|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t-|km|ជាតិលិង្គ|tr=jiet lɨng|sc=Khmr}}, {{t|km|លិង្គ|tr=lɨng|sc=Khmr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|성|tr=seong|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|성별|tr=seongbyeol|sc=Kore}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|жыныс|tr=cınıs|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ລິງ|tr=ling|sc=Laoo}}, {{t-|lo|ເພດ|tr=pheet|sc=Laoo}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|genus|n}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|dzimte|f}}, {{t|lv|dzimums|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|lytis|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|пол|m|tr=pol}}
* Malagasy: {{t-|mg|lahi-vavy}}, {{t-|mg|lahy vavy}}, {{t-|mg|lahivavy}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|jantina}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|sess|m}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|хүйс|tr=hüjs|sc=Cyrl}}
* {{trreq|mwl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kjønn|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|جنس|tr=jens|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|جنسیت|tr=jensiyat|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|płeć|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gênero|m}}, {{t+|pt|sexo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|gen}}, {{t+|ro|sex}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пол|m|tr=pol}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|gnè|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|пол|m|tr=pol|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|спол|m}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|pol|m}}, {{t|sh|spol|m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|pohlavie|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|spol|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sexo|m}}, {{t+|es|género|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|jinsia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kön|n}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|kasarian}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|ҷинс|tr=jins|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|tg|ҷинсият|tr=jinsiyat|sc=Cyrl}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เพศ|tr=pâyt}}, {{t|th|ลิงค์|tr=ling|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|cinsiyet}}, {{t|tr|cins}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|jyns}}, {{t|tk|pol}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|стать|f|tr=statʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|جنس|tr=jins|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|jins}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|giới tính}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|slachte|n}}, {{t-|fy|geslacht|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mental analogue of sex}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukupuoli}}, {{t-|fi|sukupuoli-identiteetti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|gnè|f}}, {{t-|gd|seòrsa|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|socio-cultural phenomenon}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sekse|c}}, {{t+|nl|geslacht|n}}, {{t+|nl|gender|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukupuoli}}, {{t-|fi|sosiaalinen sukupuoli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|genre|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מגדר}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|genre|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|gnè|f}}, {{t-|gd|seòrsa|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|род|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|rod|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|genus}}, {{t+|sv|könsroll}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: division between classes or kinds}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|gènere|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|genre|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschlecht|n}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kyn|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genere|m}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|genre|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|род|m|tr=rod}}
* Malagasy: {{t+|mg|karazana}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|seòrsa|m}}, {{t-|gd|gnè|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|sesso|m}}, {{t+|it|genere|m}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: {{t+|ko|성별|tr=[[性別]], seongbyeol|sc=Kore}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t+|pt|sexo|m}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: {{t+|ro|sex|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|пол|m|sc=Cyrl}} (pol)
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|pol|m}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: {{t-|sk|pohlavie|n}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|género|m}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: {{t+|sv|kön|n}}
* {{ttbc|tl}}: {{t+|tl|kasarian}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: {{t+|vi|giới tính}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
{{checksense}}
* [[androgyne]]
* [[crossdresser]]
* [[female]]
* [[feminine]]
* [[hijra]]
* [[kathoey]]
* [[male]]
* [[man]]
* [[masculine]]
* [[neuter]]
* [[two-spirit]]
* [[transsexual]]
* [[woman]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|sociology|lang=en}} To [[assign]] a [[gender]] to; to perceive as having a gender, or having been authored etc. by someone of that gender.
#* '''1996''', Athalya Brenner, ''A Feminist Companion to the Hebrew Bible in the New Testament'', page 191:
#*: At the same time, however, the convictions they held about how a woman or man might write led them to interpret their findings in a rather androcentric fashion, and to '''gender''' the text accordingly.
#* '''2003''', ''Reading the Anonymous Female Voice'', in ''The Anonymous Renaissance: Cultures of Discretion in Tudor-Stuart England'', page 244:
#*: Yet because texts by “female authors” are not dependent on the voice to '''gender''' the text, the topics that they address and the traditions that they employ seem broader and somewhat less constrained by gender stereotypes.
#* '''2011''', Kristen Schilt, ''Just One of the Guys?: Transgender Men and the Persistence of Gender Inequality'', page 147:
#*: In an interview, he even noted that he "dressed, acted and thought like a man" for years, but his coworkers continued to '''gender''' him as female (Shaver 1995, 2).

====See also====
* [[ungender]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|gendren|lang=enm}}, {{term|genderen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|gendrer|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term/t|la|generāre}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} To [[engender]].
# {{context|archaic|or|obsolete|lang=en}} To breed.
#* Leviticus 19:19 (KJV):
#*: Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle '''gender''' with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed: neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|engender}}

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|nl}} {{term|gender|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/ˈɣɛn.dər/|/ˈdʒɛn.dər/}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|c|genders|-}}

# [[#English|gender]] {{gloss|mental analog of sex}}

====Usage notes====
Dutch lacks words to distinguish ''gender'' from {{term|sex|lang=en}}, using the words {{term|geslacht|lang=nl}} or {{term|sekse|lang=nl}} to encompass both concepts. The term ''gender'' in Dutch has been recently introduced for cases when a clear distinction is needed, such as in the distinction between {{term|transgender|lang=en}} (feeling oneself to be different from one's birth sex) and {{term|transsexual|lang=en}} (having or desiring the sexual organs of the sex opposite to those one had at birth).

====Related terms====
* {{l|nl|genderdysforie}}
* {{l|nl|transgender}}

[[ar:gender]]
[[cs:gender]]
[[da:gender]]
[[de:gender]]
[[et:gender]]
[[el:gender]]
[[es:gender]]
[[eo:gender]]
[[fr:gender]]
[[ko:gender]]
[[io:gender]]
[[id:gender]]
[[is:gender]]
[[it:gender]]
[[kn:gender]]
[[sw:gender]]
[[lv:gender]]
[[hu:gender]]
[[ml:gender]]
[[my:gender]]
[[nl:gender]]
[[pl:gender]]
[[ru:gender]]
[[simple:gender]]
[[fi:gender]]
[[sv:gender]]
[[ta:gender]]
[[te:gender]]
[[tr:gender]]
[[vi:gender]]
[[zh:gender]]