{{also|Genus|ĝenus|-genus}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Genus (disambiguation)|mul=Genus|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
{{PIE root|en|ǵenh₁}}
Borrowed from {{der|en|la|genus||birth, origin, a race, sort, kind}} from the root ''gen-'' in {{der|en|la|gignere}}, {{der|en|itc-ola|gegnere||to beget, produce}}. {{doublet|en|gender}}, {{m|en|genre}}, and {{m|en|kin}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|jēn’-əs|jĕn’-əs}}, {{IPA|/ˈdʒiːnəs/|/ˈdʒɛnəs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|jēn’-əs}}, {{IPA|/ˈdʒiːnəs/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-genus.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːnəs|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|genera}}

# {{lb|en|taxonomy}} a [[rank]] in the classification of [[organism]]s, below [[family]] and above [[species]]; a [[taxon]] at that rank
#: ''All magnolias belong to the '''genus''' ''Magnolia''.
#: ''Other species of the '''genus''' ''Bos'' are often called cattle or wild cattle.''
#: ''There are only two '''genera''' and species of seadragons''.
#* {{RQ:Schuster Hepaticae V|6}}
#*: Müller {{...}} criticized the division of the "Jubuleae" into two families and he cited ''Jubula'' as an annectant '''genus'''.
# A [[group]] with [[common]] [[attribute]]s.
#* '''1945''', {{w|Bertrand Russell}}, ''A History of Western Philosophy'', p. 655:
#*: Recollection is one of a whole '''genus''' of effects which are more or less peculiar to the phenomena that we naturally call "mental."
# {{lb|en|topology|graph theory|algebraic geometry}} A [[natural number]] representing any of several related measures of the [[complexity]] of a given [[manifold]] or [[graph]].
# {{lb|en|semantics}} Within a definition, a broader category of the defined concept.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Thesaurus:class]]

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|topology|graph theory}} {{l|en|Euler genus}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|summum genus}}

====Related terms====
{{rel4|general|generic|generate|generation|gender|genocide|genre|infrageneric|lang=en}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rank in a taxonomic classification between family and species}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|جِنْس|m}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ցեղ}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|cins}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|род|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|род|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|မျိုးစု}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|gènere|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|屬|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|属|tr=suk6|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|屬|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|属|tr=shǔ|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|屬|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|属|tr=sio̍k|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rod|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|slægt|c}}, {{t+|da|genus|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geslacht|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|genro}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|perekond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|genre|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|xénero|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გვარი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gattung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γένος|n}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|वंश|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nemzetség}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|ættkvísl|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|géineas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genere|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|属|tr=[[ぞく]], zoku}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ពួក|tr=pouk|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|속}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|уруу}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|род|m|tr=rod|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malagasy: {{t+|mg|karazana}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|genus}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|puninga}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|төрөл}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|slekt|m|f}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|genre}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سرده|tr=sarde|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rodzaj|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gênero|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|gen|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|род|m}}
* Rusyn: {{t|rue|род|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|род|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|rod|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|rod|m}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|rod|m}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|rod|m}}
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|ród|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|género|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|jenasi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|släkte}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|urihay}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|ప్రజాతి}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|สกุล}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|cins}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|рід|m}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|jins}}, {{t+|uz|urugʻ}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|chi}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|bid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|taxon at this rank}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|gènere|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rod|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|slægt|c}}, {{t+|da|genus|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geslacht|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|genro}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|genre|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|xénero|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gattung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γένος|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nemzetség}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|géineas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genere|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ģints|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|род|m|tr=rod|sc=Cyrl}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|genre}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سرده|tr=sarde|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gênero|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|género|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group with common attributes}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|клас|m-p|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|soort|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|clase|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γένος|n}}, {{t+|el|είδος|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aicme|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|сој|m|tr=soj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|classa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|topological invariant}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|genus}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|xénero|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genere|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gênero|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|genere}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-check|lt|gentis|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|género|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|generic name}}
* {{l|en|class}}
* {{l|en|division}}
* {{l|en|kingdom}}
* {{l|en|order}}
* {{l|en|phylum}}
* {{l|en|species}}
* {{sense|semantics}} {{l|en|differentia}}

====Further reading====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=egnsu|Negus|negus}}

[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{der|da|la|genus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡeːnus/|[ˈɡ̊eːnus]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{head|da|noun|g=n|plural indefinite|genus|or|genera}}

# {{lb|da|biology|taxonomy}} {{l|en|genus}}
# {{lb|da|grammar}} [[gender]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|taxonomic genus}} [[slægt]]
* {{sense|grammatical genus}} [[køn]]

===Further reading===
* {{pedialite|lang=da}}

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{der|nl|la|genus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/ˈɣeː.nʏs/}}
* {{audio|Nl-genus.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{hyphenation|lang=nl|ge|nus}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|n|genera|-}}

# {{lb|nl|botany}} a [[rank]] in a [[taxonomic]] [[classification]], in between [[family]] and [[species]].
# {{lb|nl|botany}} a [[taxon]] at this rank
# {{lb|nl|linguistics}} {{l|en|gender}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|all sense}} {{l|nl|geslacht}}

----

==Latin==
{{wikipedia|dab=genus|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|eccl=1}}

===Etymology 1===
{{PIE root|la|ǵenh₁}}
From {{inh|la|itc-pro|*genos}}, from {{inh|la|ine-pro|*ǵénh₁os|t=race}}, from {{der|la|ine-pro|*ǵenh₁-|t=to produce, beget}}; compare also {{m|la|gēns}}, from the same root. Cognates include {{cog|grc|γένος|t=race, stock, kin, kind}}, {{cog|sa|जनस्|tr=jánas|t=race, class of beings}}, {{cog|cel-pro|*genos||birth; family}}, and English {{m|en|kin}}.

====Noun====
{{la-noun|genus|generis|n|third}}

# [[birth]], [[origin]]
# [[kind]], [[type]], [[class]]
#* {{Q|la|Livy|Ab Urbe Condita|26|1|quote=huic '''generi''' militum senatus eundem, quem Cannensibus, finem statuerat militiae.|year=27-25 BCE|trans=For this '''class''' of soldier the senate had established a limit in duration to their military service, which was the same as the men at Cannae.}}
# [[species]] {{qualifier|of animal or plant}}, [[race]] {{qualifier|of people}}
#* {{Q|la|Vergil|Georgics|III|quote=omne adeo '''genus''' in terris hominumque ferarumque<br>et '''genus''' aequoreum pecudes pictaeque volucres<br>in furias ignemque ruunt|trans=So far does every '''species''' on earth of man and beast,<br>whether the aquatic '''species''', livestock, or painted-winged,<br>collapse into the frenzies and the fire [of sex].}}
# [[set]], [[group]] {{qualifier|with common attributes}}
# {{lb|la|grammar}} [[gender]]
#* '''6th century''', Magnus Aurelius Cassiodorus (attributed): ''Commentarium de oratione et de octo partibus orationis''. In: „Patrologiae cursus completus sive Bibliotheca universalis, integra, uniformis, commoda, oeconomica, omnium ss. patrum, doctorum scriptorumque ecclesiasticorum qui ab aevo apostolico ad innocentii III tempora floruerunt; {{...}}. Series prima, in qua prodeunt patres, doctores scriptoresque ecclesiae latinae a tertulliano ad gregorium magnum. Accurante J.-P. Migne, cursuum completorum in singulos scientiae ecclesiaticae ramos editore. Patrologiae tomus LXX. Cassiodori tomus posterior. – Magni Aurelii Cassiodori senatoris, viri patricii, consularis, et vivariensis abbatis opera omnia in duos tomos distributa, ad fidem manuscriptiorum codicum emendata et aucta, notis, observationibus et indicibus locupletata, praecedente auctoris vita, quae nunc primum in lucem prodit cum dissertatione de ejus monarchatu. Opera et studio J. Garetii monarchi ordinis sancti Benedicti e congregatione sancti mauri. Nobis autem curantibus accesserunt complexiones in epistolas b. Pauli quas edidit et annotavit scipio Maffeius. Tomus posterior. – Parisiis, venit apud editorem, in via dicta d'amboise, près la barriere d'enfer, ou petit-montrouge. 1847“, p. 1225
#*: '''Genera''' nominum sunt sex: masculinum, ut hic Cato; femininum, ut haec musa; neutrum, ut hoc monile; commune duorum generum, ut hic et haec sacerdos: trium generum, ut hic, et haec, et hoc felix; epicoenon, quod Latine promiscuum dicitur, ut passer, aquila.
#*:: Nouns have six genders: masculine, e.g. ''hic Cato'' 'this man Cato'; feminine, e.g. ''haec musa'' 'this muse'; neuter, e.g. ''hoc monile'' 'this necklace'; common to two genders, e.g. ''hic et haec sacerdos'' 'this priest or priestess'; of three genders, e.g. ''hic, et haec, et hoc felix'' 'this lucky man, woman or thing'; [[epicene]], called promiscous in Latin, e.g. ''passer'' 'sparrow', ''aquila'' 'eagle'.
#* '''16th century''', Andreas Semperius (a.k.a. Andreas Sampere, Andreu Sempere): ''Andreae Semperii Valentini Alcodiani, doctoris medici, prima grammaticae latinae institutio tribus libris explicata'', <!-- Majorica, in officina Philippi Guasp. -->Majorca/Mallorca, 1819, p.19
#*: '''Genera''' nominum, septem sunt. Masculinum, cui praeponitur hic: ut hic Dominus. Foemineum, cui praeponitur haec: ut haec musa. Neutrum, cui praeponuntur hoc: ut hoc templum. Commune, cui praeponuntur hic, & haec: ut hic, & haec Sacerdos. Omne, cui praeponuntur hic, haec, hoc, vel per tres varias voces inflectitur: ut hic, haec, hoc felix, bonus, bona, bonum. Dubium, quod modo masculinum, modo faemineum, apud Oratores etiam invenitur: ut hic, vel haec dies. Promiscuum, in quo sexus uterque per alterum apparet: ut hic passer, haec aquila, hic lepus.
#*:: Nouns have seven genders. Masculine, which you can precede with ''hic'': ''hic dominus'' 'this Lord'. Feminine, which you can precede with ''haec'', e.g. ''haec musa'' 'this [[muse]]'. Neuter, which you can precede with ''hoc'', e.g. ''hoc templum'' 'this temple'. Common, which you can precede with ''hic'' and ''haec'': ''hic & haec sacerdos'' 'this male or female priest'. Universal, which you can precede with all three of ''hic, haec, hoc'', or which vary in three forms, e.g. ''hic, haec, hoc felix'' 'this lucky man, woman, thing', ''hic bonus, haec bona, hoc bonum'' 'this good man, good woman, good thing'. Doubtful, which in the orators can be found to be sometimes masculine, sometimes feminine, e.g. ''hic, vel haec dies'' 'this day'. Promiscuous, in which a gender appears instead of another, e.g. ''hic passer'' 'this sparrow' (always masculine), ''haec aquila'' 'this eagle' (always feminine), ''hic lepus'' 'this rabbit' (always neuter).
# {{lb|la|grammar}} [[subtype]] of word
#* {{Q|la|Aelius Donatus|Ars Minor|De Verbo|quote='''Genera''' verborum quot sunt? Quinque. Quae? Activa passiva neutra deponentia communia.|trans=How many types of verbs are there? Five. Which ones? Active, passive, neuter, deponent, common.}}
#* {{Q|la|Maurus Servius Honoratus|Commentarius in Artem Donati|quote=Verborum '''genera''' quinque sunt, activa passiva neutra communia deponentia.|trans=There are five types of verbs: active, passive, neuter, common, deponent.}}

=====Inflection=====
{{la-decl-3rd-N|genus|gener}}

=====Hyponyms=====
* {{sense|grammar, genera nominum}} [genus] {{l|la|femininus|fēminīnum}}, [genus] {{l|la|masculinus|masculīnum}}, [genus] {{l|la|neuter|neutrum}}, genus {{l|la|communis|commūne}}, genus {{l|la|omnis|omne}}
* {{sense|grammar, genera verborum}} [genus] {{l|la|activus|āctīvum}}, [genus] {{l|la|passivus|passīvum}}, [genus] {{l|la|neuter|neutrum}}, [genus] {{l|la|communis|commūne}}, [genus] {{l|la|dēpōnēns}}, [genus] {{l|la|medius|medium}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{col-top|2}}
* {{l|la|bigener}}
* {{l|la|congener}}
* {{l|la|dēgener}}
* {{l|la|generālis}}
* {{l|la|generātim}}
* {{l|la|generō}}
* {{l|la|generōsus}}
* {{l|la|genus verbī}}
* {{l|la|suī generis}}
{{col-bottom}}

=====Descendants=====
{{top2}}
* Arabic: {{l|ar|جِنْس}}
* English: {{l|en|genus}}, [[generic]], [[genre]], [[generate]], [[gender]]
* Franco-Provençal: {{l|frp|gins}} {{qualifier|negative particle in {{m|frp||ne... (pâs) gins de}}}}
* French: {{l|fr|genre}}
** Franco-Provençal: {{l|frp|janro}}
* German: {{l|de|Genus}}
* Irish: {{l|ga|géineas}}
{{mid2}}
* Italian: {{l|it|genere}}
* Portuguese: {{l|pt|género}}
* Romanian: {{l|ro|gen}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|género}}
* Swedish: {{l|sv|genus}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{nonlemma}}

====Noun====
{{la-noun-form|genūs}}

# {{inflection of|genū||gen|s|lang=la}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Elementary Lewis}}
* {{R:du Cange}}
* {{R:M&A}}

----

==Swedish==
{{wikipedia|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n}}

# {{lb|sv|grammar}} [[gender]] (division of nouns and pronouns)
# (social) gender, [[sex]] (social issues of being man or woman)

====Usage notes====
* Biological gender is called {{l|sv|kön}}. The Latin word ''genus'' is used for grammar and more recently for gender studies.

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-n-zero|genitive=}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|grammar}} {{l|sv|kön}}

====Related terms====
{{rel4|genusforskning|genusfråga|genuspedagogik|genusperspektiv|genusteori|genusväxling|genusändelse|lang=sv}}

===References===
* {{R:SAOL}}