==English==
{{wikipedia|mul=names of Germany}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|Germania|lang=la}}; likely a [[w:Gaulish language|Gallic]] term for the peoples west of the Rhine that meant “neighbor”.<ref>{{reference-book |last=Schulze |first=Hagen |title=Germany: A New History |origyear=1998 |publisher=Harvard University Press |location=Cambridge, MA | pages=4}}</ref><ref>[http://www.oxfordreference.com/views/ENTRY.html?subview=Main&entry=t27.e6407 "German"], ''The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology''. Ed. T. F. Hoad. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1996. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press. Accessed March 4, 2008.</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈd͡ʒɜː.mə.nɪ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"dZ3:m@nI/}}
* {{audio|En-uk-Germany.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈd͡ʒɝ.mə.ni/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"dZ3`m@ni/}}
* {{audio|en-us-Germany.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|German|ies|pl2=Germanys|-}}

# Country in Central Europe. Official name: Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesrepublik Deutschland).
# (''countable''; hist. 1949-1990) Either of the German states, FRG and GDR. ''The two Germanies exchanged permanent representatives in 1974.''
# (''countable''; hist. pre-1871) Any of the German states. ''Melton’s useful new book traces the explosion of public institutions in eighteenth-century England, France and the Germanies.''

====Quotations====
#* '''1872''', ''History of English Literature'', an abridgment by John Fiske of H. van Laun's translation of Hippolyte Taine's '''1864''' ''Histoire de la littérature anglaise''; page 26:
#*: While the Germans of Gaul, Italy, and Spain became Romans, the Saxons retained their language, their genius, and manners, and created in Britain a '''Germany''' outside of '''Germany'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|country}}
* Acehnese: {{tø|ace|Jeureuman}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|Duitsland}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|Gjermania}}
* {{trreq|am}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|ألمانيا|f|tr='almaanya}}
* {{trreq|an}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|Գերմանիա|tr=Germania}}
* Asturian: {{t+|ast|Alemaña|f}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|Almaniya}}
* Bashkir: {{tø|ba|Германия|tr=Germaniya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|Alemania}}
* Bavarian: {{tø|bar|Deitschland}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|Германія|f|tr=Hermánija}}, {{t-|be|Нямеччына|f|tr=Njaméččyna|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|জার্মানি|tr=jarmani}}
* Breton: {{t-|br|Alamagn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|Германия|f|tr=Germánija}}
* Burmese: {{t-|my|ဂျာမနီနိုင်ငံ|tr=gyamăninaingngan}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Alemanya|f}}, {{t+|ca|Alemània|f}}
* Cherokee: {{t+|chr|ᎠᏛᏥ|sc=Cher}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|德國|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|德国|tr=Déguó|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|德意志|tr=Déyìzhì|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t-|kw|Almayn}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{tø|crh|Almaniya}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Německo|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|Tyskland|n}}, {{t-|da|Forbundsrepublikken Tyskland}}
* Dhivehi: {{t-|dv|ޖަރުމަނުވިލާތް|tr=Jarumanu Vilay}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Duitsland|n}}
* Dzongkha: {{t-|dz|ཇཱར་མ་ནི་|sc=Tibt}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|Germanio}}, {{t-|eo|Germanujo}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Saksamaa}}
* Faroese: {{t+|fo|Týskland|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Saksa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Allemagne|f}}
* {{trreq|fur}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|Alemaña|f}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|გერმანია|tr=germania|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Deutschland|n}}
*: Middle High German: [[Tiutschlant]] {{n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Γερμανία|f|tr=Germanía}}
* {{trreq|gu}}
* Hawaiian: {{tø|haw|Kelemānia}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|גרמניה|f|tr=Germania}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|जर्मनी|m|tr=jarmanī}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Németország}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Þýskaland|n}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|Jerman}}
* Interlingua: {{t+|ia|Germania}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|Gearmáin|alt=an Ghearmáin|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Germania|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ドイツ|tr=Doitsu}}, {{t+|ja|独逸|tr=Doitsu}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}
* Kannada: {{t+|kn|ಜರ್ಮನಿ|tr=jarmani|sc=Knda}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|Германия|tr=Germaniya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t-|km|​អាល្លឺម៉ង់|tr=āleumong|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|독일|tr=Dogil|sc=Hang}} ({{t+|ko|獨逸|sc=Hani}}); {{t+|ko|도이췰란드|tr=Doichwillandeu|sc=Hang}} {{qualifier|North Korea}}
* Kven: {{tø|fkv|Tuiska}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t-|ky|Германия|tr=Germaniya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ປະເທດເຢັຽລະມັນ|tr=patheet yiẏalamân|sc=Laoo}}, {{t-|lo|ເຢັຽລະມັນ|tr=yiẏalamân|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|Vuoceja|f}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|Germania|f}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|Vācija|f}}
* {{trreq|lij}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Vokietija|f}}
* Livonian: {{t|liv|Saksāmō}}
* Low German: {{t+|nds|Düütschland|n}}, {{t+|nds|Düüdschland|n}}
* Luhya: {{tø|luy|Jamani}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t+|lb|Däitschland|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Германија|f|tr=Germánija}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|Jerman}}
* Malayalam: {{t-|ml|ജര്മനി|tr=jarmani|sc=Mlym}}
* Maltese: il-[[Ġermanja]] {{f}}
* Manx: {{t-|gv|Giarmaan|f}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|जर्मनी|tr=jarmanī|sc=Deva}}
* Marshallese: {{t-|mh|Jāmne}}
* Mongolian: {{t-|mn|Герман|tr=Germán|sc=Cyrl}}
* Nahuatl: {{t+|nah|Teutontlālpan}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|Béésh Bichʼahii bikéyah}}
* Nepali: {{t-|ne|जर्मनी|tr=jarmanī|sc=Deva}}
* [[North Frisian]]:
*: Amrum: {{tø|frr|Sjiisklun}}
*: Mooring: {{tø|frr|Tjüschlönj}}
* Northern Sami: {{tø|se|Duiskka}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Tyskland}}, {{t-|no|Føderale Republikken Tyskland}}
* {{trreq|nov}}
* {{trreq|oc}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|Þeodiscland|n|alt=Þēodiscland}}
* Old French: {{tø|fro|Alemaigne|f}}
* Old Provençal: {{tø|pro|Alamagna}}
* {{trreq|or}}
* Pashto: {{t-|ps|آلمان|tr=Âlmân|sc=ps-Arab}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آلمان|tr=Âlmân}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Dietschlaunt|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Niemcy|f|p}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Alemanha|f}}
* Punjabi: {{t-|pa|ਜਰਮਨੀ|tr=jarmanī|sc=Guru}}
* Quechua: {{t-|qu|Alimanya}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|Germania|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Германия|f|tr=Germánija}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|Gearmailt|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|Немачка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|Nemačka|f}}
* {{trreq|scn}}
* Silesian: {{tø|szl|Mjymcy}}
* Sinhalese: {{t-|si|ජර්මනිය|tr=jarmaniya|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|Nemecko|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Nemčija|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: [[Lower Sorbian]]: {{tø|dsb|Nimska|f}}, {{tø|dsb|Nimce|p}}
*: [[Upper Sorbian]]: {{t+|hsb|Němska|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Alemania|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Ujerumani|c6}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Tyskland}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|Alemanya}}
* Tajik: {{t+|tg|Олмон|tr=Olmon|sc=Cyrl}}
* Tamil: {{t-|ta|ஜர்மனி|tr=jarmani}}
* Tatar: {{t-|tt|Алмания|tr=Almaniya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Telugu: {{t-|te|జర్మని|tr=jarmani}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ประเทศเยอรมัน|tr=bpràtêt yerráman}}, {{t+|th|เยอรมนี|tr=yerromnee}}, {{t+|th|เยอรมัน|tr=yerráman}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Almanya}}
* Turkmen: {{t-|tk|Germaniýa}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|Німеччина|f|tr=Niméččyna}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|جرمنی|m|tr=jarmanī|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Uyghur: {{t-|ug|گېرمانىيە|tr=gérmaniye|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t-|uz|Olmoniya}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-|vi|nước Đức}}, {{t+|vi|Đức}} ({{t-|vi|德|sc=Hani}})
* Vilamovian: {{tø|wym|Daojćłaond}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|Deutän}}, {{qualifier|obsolete}} {{t-|vo|Deut}}
* Võro: [[S'aksamaa]]
* {{trreq|wa}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|Almaen|f}}
* West Frisian: {{t+|fy|Dútslân|n}}
* Xhosa: {{t|xh|iJamani|c5}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|דײַטשלאַנד|n|tr=Daytshland, Dajtschland|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Place names in Germany]]
* {{list|en|countries of Europe}}
{{top2}}
* [[Alemania]]
* [[Alsace|Alsatia]]
* [[Austria]]
* [[Bavaria]]
* [[Deutsch]]
* [[Deutschland]]
* [[Diets]], [[Dietsch]]
* [[Duits]]
* [[Dutch]]
* [[East Germany]]
* [[German Democratic Republic]]
* [[German Empire]]
* [[German]], [[Germanic]]
* [[Germania]]
* [[Goth]]
{{mid2}}
* [[Hun]]
* [[Liechtenstein]]
* [[Luxembourg]]
* [[Luxemburg]]
* [[Netherlands]]
* [[Prussia]]
* [[Reich]], [[Riik]], [[Rick]], [[Rich]], [[Rijk]], [[Rike]], [[Rik]], [[Rig]], [[Riche]], [[Ritch]]
* [[Saxon]]
* [[Silesia]]
* [[Swabia]]
* [[Switzerland]]
* [[Teuton]], [[Teutonic]]
* [[Tirol]]
* [[Tyskland]]
* [[Vandal]]
* [[Weimar Republic]]
* [[West Germany]]
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mangery#English|mangery]]
* [[menagry#English|menagry]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Exonyms]]
[[Category:en:Germany| Germany]]

[[af:Germany]]
[[ar:Germany]]
[[ast:Germany]]
[[zh-min-nan:Germany]]
[[bg:Germany]]
[[cs:Germany]]
[[cy:Germany]]
[[da:Germany]]
[[de:Germany]]
[[et:Germany]]
[[el:Germany]]
[[es:Germany]]
[[eu:Germany]]
[[fa:Germany]]
[[fr:Germany]]
[[fy:Germany]]
[[gl:Germany]]
[[ko:Germany]]
[[hi:Germany]]
[[hr:Germany]]
[[io:Germany]]
[[id:Germany]]
[[is:Germany]]
[[it:Germany]]
[[kl:Germany]]
[[kn:Germany]]
[[kk:Germany]]
[[sw:Germany]]
[[ku:Germany]]
[[lo:Germany]]
[[lv:Germany]]
[[lb:Germany]]
[[lt:Germany]]
[[li:Germany]]
[[hu:Germany]]
[[mg:Germany]]
[[mi:Germany]]
[[nah:Germany]]
[[nl:Germany]]
[[ja:Germany]]
[[no:Germany]]
[[nn:Germany]]
[[oc:Germany]]
[[nds:Germany]]
[[pl:Germany]]
[[pt:Germany]]
[[ro:Germany]]
[[ru:Germany]]
[[sq:Germany]]
[[simple:Germany]]
[[sk:Germany]]
[[fi:Germany]]
[[sv:Germany]]
[[ta:Germany]]
[[th:Germany]]
[[tg:Germany]]
[[tr:Germany]]
[[za:Germany]]
[[vi:Germany]]
[[vo:Germany]]
[[zh:Germany]]