==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡɛt/|/ɡɪt/}}, {{SAMPA|/gEt/|/gIt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-get.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛt}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|non}} {{term|geta||lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|getanan}} (compare {{etyl|ang}} {{term|gietan|ġietan|lang=ang}}, {{etyl|goh|-}} ''pi-gezzan'' 'to uphold', Gothic ''bi-gitan'' 'to find, discover'), from {{proto|Indo-European|ghéd-}} 'to seize' (compare {{etyl|mga|-}} {{term|gataim}} 'I steal', {{etyl|lt|-}} ''godetis'' 'to be eager', {{etyl|ru|-}} ''gadatī'' 'to guess, suppose', {{etyl|sq|-}} {{term|gjej}} 'to find', [[Ancient Greek]] ''ktaomai'' 'to acquire, procure', ''ktēma'' 'possession', {{etyl|peo|-}} ''xšathra'' 'dominion')

====Verb====
{{en-verb|gets|getting|got|{{qualifier|chiefly British}} '''[[got]]''', (''North American'' or ''British archaic'') '''[[gotten]]''' }}

# {{transitive}} To [[obtain]], [[purchase]] or [[acquire]].
#: ''I'm going to '''get''' a computer tomorrow from the discount store.''
#: ''You need to '''get''' permission to leave early.''
# {{transitive}} To [[receive]].
#: ''I '''got''' a computer from my parents for my birthday.''
#: ''He '''got''' a severe reprimand for that.
# {{transitive}} To [[fetch]].
#: ''Can you '''get''' my bag from the living-room, please?''
# {{context|copulative}} To [[become]].
#: ''I'm '''getting''' hungry, how about you?''
#: ''Don't '''get''' drunk tonight.''
# {{transitive}} To [[cause]] to become; to bring about.
#: ''That song '''gets''' me so depressed every time I hear it.''
#: ''I'll '''get''' this finished by lunchtime.''
# {{transitive}} (used with preposition) To [[don]] or [[doff]] clothing, etc.
#: ''I can't '''get''' these boots off'' (or ''on'').
# {{transitive}} To [[cause]] to do.
#: ''Somehow she '''got''' him to agree to it.''
#: ''I can't '''get''' it to work.''
# {{reflexive}} To [[betake]] oneself.
#* [[w:Dante Gabriel Rossetti|Dante Gabriel Rossetti]], ''Retro me, Sathana'', line 1
#*: '''''Get''' thee behind me.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[arrive]] (at) or progress (towards a place or outcome).
#: ''When are we going to '''get''' to London?''
#: ''We're slowly '''getting''' there.''
# {{intransitive}} {{qualifier|with various prepositions, such as [[into]], [[over]] or [[behind]]; for specific idiomatic senses see individual entries [[get into]], [[get over]], etc.}} To adopt or assume (a certain position or state).
#: ''The actors are '''getting''' into position.''
#: ''I'm '''getting''' into a muddle.''
#: ''We '''got''' behind the wall.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[begin]] (doing something).
#: ''We ought to '''get''' moving or we'll be late.''
#: ''After lunch we '''got''' chatting.''
# {{transitive}} To [[take]] or [[catch]] (a scheduled transportation service).
#: ''I normally '''get''' the 7:45 train.''
#: ''I'll '''get''' the 9 a.m. [flight] to Boston.''
# {{transitive}} To respond to (a [[telephone]] call, a [[doorbell]], etc).
#: ''Can you '''get''' that call, please? I'm busy.''
# {{intransitive|followed by infinitive}} To be [[able]], [[permitted]] (to do something); to have the opportunity (to do something).
#: ''I'm so jealous that you '''got''' to see them perform live!''
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[understand]] (often used as {{term|get it}}).
#: ''Yeah, I '''get''' it, it's just not funny.''
#: ''I don't '''get''' what you mean by "fun". This place sucks!''
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[be]] (''used to form the [[passive]] of verbs'').
#: ''He '''got''' bitten by a dog.''
# {{transitive|informal}} To become [[ill]] with or [[catch]] (a [[disease]]).
#: ''I went on holiday and '''got''' malaria.''
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[catch out]], [[trick]] successfully.
#: ''He keeps calling pretending to be my boss &mdash; it '''gets''' me every time.''
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[perplex]], [[stump]].
#: ''That question's really '''got''' me.''
# {{transitive}} To find as an answer.
#: ''What did you '''get''' for question four?''
# {{transitive|informal}} To bring to reckoning; to catch (as a criminal); to effect retribution.
#: ''The cops finally '''got''' me.''
#: ''I'm gonna '''get''' him for that.''
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[hear]] completely; [[catch]].
#: ''Sorry, I didn't '''get''' that. Could you repeat it?''
# {{transitive}} To [[getter]].
#: ''I put the getter into the container to '''get''' the gases.
# {{context|now|_|rare}} To [[beget]] (of a father).
#* '''2009''', Hilary Mantel, ''Wolf Hall'', Fourth Estate 2010, p. 310:
#*: Walter had said, dear God, Thomas, it was St fucking Felicity if I'm not mistaken, and her face was to the wall for sure the night I '''got''' you.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|obtain}} [[acquire]], [[come by]], [[get hold of]], [[have]], [[obtain]], [[take possession of]]
* {{sense|receive}} [[receive]], be [[give]]n
* {{sense|fetch}} [[bring]], [[fetch]], [[retrieve]]
* {{sense|become}} [[become]]
* {{sense|cause to become}} [[cause]] to be, cause to become, [[make]]
* {{sense|cause to do}} [[make]]
* {{sense|arrive}} [[arrive]] at, [[reach]]
* {{sense|go, come}} [[come]], [[go]], [[travel]]
* {{qualifier|adopt or assume (a position or state)}}: [[go]], [[move]]
* {{sense|begin}} [[begin]], [[commence]], [[start]]
* {{qualifier|catch (a means of public transport)}}: [[catch]], [[take]]
* {{qualifier|respond to (telephone, doorbell)}}: [[answer]]
* {{sense|be able to; have the opportunity to do}} [[be able to]]
* {{sense|informal: understand}} [[dig]], [[follow]], [[make sense of]], [[understand]]
* {{qualifier|informal: be (used to form the passive)}}: [[be]]
* {{qualifier|informal: catch (a disease)}}: [[catch]], [[come down with]]
* {{sense|informal: trick}} [[con]], [[deceive]], [[dupe]], [[hoodwink]], [[trick]]
* {{sense|informal: perplex}} [[confuse]], [[perplex]], [[stump]]
* {{sense|find as an answer}} [[obtain]]
* {{qualifier|bring to reckoning; to catch (as a criminal)}}: [[catch]], [[nab]], [[nobble]]
* {{sense|physically assault}} [[assault]], [[beat]], [[beat up]]
* {{sense|informal: hear}} [[catch]], [[hear]]
* {{sense|getter}} [[getter]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|obtain}} [[lose]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[:Category:English words derived from: get (verb)]]
{{rel-top4|Terms derived from ''get''}}
* [[beget]]
* [[forget]]
* [[from the get-go]]
* [[get about]]
* [[get across]]
* [[get across to]]
* [[get action]]
* [[get after]]
* [[get a look in]]
* [[get along]]
* [[get along with]]
* [[get around]]
* [[get around to]]
* [[get at]]
* [[get away]]
<!--"get-away"/"getaway" is derived from "get away"-->
* [[get away from]]
* [[get away with]]
* [[get back]]
* [[get back to]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[get behind]]
* [[get better]]
* [[get beyond]]
* [[get by]]
* [[get done]]
* [[get down]]
* [[get going]]
* [[get in]]
* [[get in with]]
* [[get into]]
* [[get into trouble]]
* [[get it]]
* [[get it across one's head]]
* [[get it into one's head]]
* [[get it on]]
* [[get it over with]]
* [[get knotted]]
* [[get lost]]
* [[get moving]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[get off]]
* [[get off easy]]
* [[get off lightly]]
* [[get off with]]
* [[get on]]
<!--"get on someone's nerves", etc, are derived from "get on"-->
* [[get one over on]]
* [[get one's end away]]
* [[get one's rocks off]]
* [[get on in years]]
* [[get on to]]
* [[get on with]]
* [[get out]]
<!--"get-out" is derived from "get out"-->
* [[get out of]]
* [[get over]]
* [[get-rich-quick]]<!--adjective-->
* [[get round]]
* [[get round to]]
* [[get someone's goat]]
* [[get stuffed]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[get there]]<!--as in "I'm slowly getting there" = "I'm slowly coming to understand"-->
* [[get the time]] to
* [[get through]]
* [[get through to]]
* [[get to]]
* [[get to be]]
* [[get together]]
* [[get under]]
* [[get up]]
<!--"get-up" and "get up and go" are derived from "get up"-->
* [[get up in]]
* [[get up to]]
* [[get well soon]]
* [[get with the program]], [[get with the programme]]
* [[go-getter]]
* [[go-getting]]
* [[got]]<!--in the Ebonics sense of "have"-->
* [[have got]]<!--in the sense of "have"-->
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|obtain}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[استلم]]}} {{IPAchar|(istálama)}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[aconseguir]], [[obtindre]]
* Chinese: [[获得]] ([[huòdé]]), [[得到]] ([[dédào]]), [[取]] ([[qǔ]]), [[拿]] ([[ná]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dostat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|få fat i}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nemen}}, {{t+|nl|pakken}}, {{t+|nl|halen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|preni}}, {{t|eo|havigi}}, {{t|eo|akiri}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saada}}
* French: {{t+|fr|obtenir}}
* German: [[besorgen]], [[holen]], [[erwischen]]; {{qualifier|colloquial}} [[kriegen]], sich [[schnappen]], {{t|de|anschaffen}}
* [[Ido]]: [[aquirar]]
* Irish: {{t+|ga|faigh|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ottenere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[手に入れる]] ([[てにいれる]], te-ni ireru), [[ゲットする]] (getto suru)
* Latin: {{t|la|impetro}}, {{t|la|assequor}}, {{t|la|consequor}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|få tak i}}, {{t|no|oppnå}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|بدست آوردن|tr=bedast âvordan|xs=Persian}}, {{t+|fa|گرفتن|tr=gereftan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: [[dostawać]] / [[dostać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|obter}}, {{t|pt|conseguir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|доставать|tr=dostavát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|достать|tr=dostát’}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[faigh]]
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|dobiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conseguir}}, {{t+|es|obtener}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|wahi|xs=Swahili}}, {{t+|sw|pata|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}, {{t+|sv|skaffa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|elde etmek}}, {{t+|tr|ele geçirmek}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|getön}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|receive}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[إستقبل]]}} (istáqbala)
* [[Catalan]]: [[rebre]]
* Chinese: [[收到]] (shōudào), [[接到]] (jiēdào)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dostávat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|få}}, {{t|da|modtage}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|krijgen}}, {{t+|nl|verkrijgen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ricevi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saada}}, {{t-|fi|vastaanottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|recevoir}}
* German: [[bekommen]]; {{qualifier|colloquial}} [[kriegen]]
* Greek: {{t+|el|παίρνω}}
* [[Ido]]: [[aquirar]]
* Irish: {{t+|ga|faigh|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ricevere}}
* Japanese: [[受け取る]] ([[うけとる]], uketoru),　[[貰う]]　([[もらう]], morau), [[受ける]] ([[うける]], ukeru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|recipio}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|få}}, {{t|no|motta}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|گرفتن|tr=gereftan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: [[dostawać]] / [[dostać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|receber}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|primi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|получать|tr=polučát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|получить|tr=polučít’}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[faigh]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prejeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recibir}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|wahi|xs=Swahili}}, {{t+|sw|pata|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|få}}, {{t|sv|ta emot}}, {{t|sv|emottaga}} {{qualifier|archaic}}, {{t|sv|mottaga}}, {{t|sv|motta}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|almak}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t|fy|krije|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|fetch}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hakea}}, {{t|fi|noutaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|hämta}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|become}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[أصبح]]}} (ʼáṣbaḥa)
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|դառնալ|tr=daṙnal}}
* Chinese: [[成]] (chéng), [[成为]] (chéngwéi), ...[[了]] (...le) {{qualifier|change of state particle}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|blive}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|worden}}
* French: [[devenir]]; ('''get''' + ''<adjective> is often translated by a reflexive verb in French''; get drunk = ''[[s'enivrer]]'')
* German: [[werden]], ''in some cases:'' [[gehen]] (sometimes translated by a reflexive verb: get drunk = ''sich [[betrinken]]'')
* Italian: [[divenire]], [[diventare]]; ('''get''' + ''<adjective> is often translated by a reflexive verb in Italian''; get drunk = ''[[ubriacarsi]]'')
* Japanese: [[成る]] ([[なる]], naru), ～に[[なる]] (...-ni naru), ～と[[なる]] (... -to naru)
* Latin: {{t|la|fio}}, {{t|la|ruo}}, {{qualifier|is often tranlated by a passive verb in latin}} {{t|la|finiri|tr=get finished}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|bli}}
* Portuguese: [[tornar]]-se, [[ficar]]; ('''get''' + ''<adjective>'' is often translated by a reflexive verb in Portuguese; get drunk = ''[[embriagar-se]]'')
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стать|tr=stat’}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|становиться|tr=stanovít’sja}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|делаться|tr=délat’sja}} {{impf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[fàs]]
* Spanish: [[volverse]], [[convertirse en]]; ('''get''' + ''<adjective> is often translated by a reflexive verb in Spanish''; get drunk = ''[[emborracharse]]'')
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|wahi|xs=Swahili}}, {{t+|sw|pata|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bli}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|olmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|cause to become}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}, {{t|sv|göra}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|don}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pukea}}, {{t|fi|pukeutua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ta}} på, {{t|sv|få}} på
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|doff}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|riisua}}, {{t|fi|riisuuntua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ta}} av, {{t|sv|få}} av
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|cause to do}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|betake}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|arrive at}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|nå}}, {{t|sv|komma}}, {{t|sv|anlända}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|go or come}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|adopt, assume (a position)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|begin}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ryhtyä}} + ''infinitive III illative''
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|börja}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|take, catch (transportation)}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|respond to}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vastata}} + ''illative''
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ta}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|be able to, be permitted, have opportunity}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}} {{qualifier|be allowed to}}, {{t|sv|kunna}} {{qualifier|be able to}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|colloquial: understand}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[entendre]], [[comprendre]], ''[[agafar]]''
* Danish: {{t+|da|forstå}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|begrijpen}}, {{t+|nl|verstaan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ymmärtää}}, {{t+|fi|tajuta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|capter}}, {{t+|fr|piger}}
* German: [[kapieren]]; ''regional:'' [[haben]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|forstå}}, {{t+|no|fatte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|entender}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|понимать|tr=ponimát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|понять|tr=ponját’}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[tuig#Scottish Gaelic|tuig]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|entender}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|wahi|xs=Swahili}}, {{t+|sw|pata|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fatta}}, {{t+|sv|haja}} {{qualifier|slang}}, {{t|sv|begripa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|anlamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|colloquial: be}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[ser]]
* French: {{t+|fr|être}}
* German: {{t+|de|werden}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|essere}}
* Latin: {{t|la|sum}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|bli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ser}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[bi#Scottish Gaelic|bi]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ser}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|wahi|xs=Swahili}}, {{t+|sw|pata|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bli}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|become ill}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}, {{t|sv|bli}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|catch out}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|perplex}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|askarruttaa}}, {{t|fi|vaivata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|find as an answer}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|bring to reckoning}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|få}}, {{t|sv|fånga}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|physically assault}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|hear completely}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|uppfatta}}, {{t|sv|fatta}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}, {{t|sv|höra}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|getter}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|beget}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[ambil]], [[bawa]], [[terima]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# [[offspring|Offspring]].
#* '''1999''', {{w|George RR Martin}}, ''A Clash of Kings'', Bantam 2011, p. 755:
#*: ‘You were a high lord's '''get'''. Don't tell me Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell never killed a man.’
# [[lineage|Lineage]].
# {{sports|tennis}} A difficult [[return]] or block of a shot.

===Etymology 2===
Variant of {{term|git||lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{British|regional}} A '''[[git]]'''.
<!--an [[idiot]], a [[contemptible]] person
#: Although '''get''' is the original word, the derived word '''[[git]]''' is more common.--><!-- My opinion, though backed up by http://www.peevish.co.uk/slang/g.htm -->

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|he}} {{term|גט|lang=he|sc=Hebr}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|gittim}}

# {{Judaism}} A [[Jewish]] [[writ]] of [[divorce]].

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|away|against|though|149|get|eyes|hand|young}}

===Anagrams===
* [[teg#English|teg]]

[[Category:English copulative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Ladino==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|he|lad}} {{term|גט|lang=he|sc=Hebr}}.

===Noun===
{{lad-noun|l|g=m}}

# [[divorce]]

----

==Limburgish==

===Etymology===
Often said to be related to English [[get#English|get]]; this is not true, however. It is a conjugated form of ''[[det]]'' (that) In Limburgish normally the begin letter of a definite article ("d") changes to "g" when preceded by a preposition (''ich gaef <u>d</u>e miens'' vs ''ich gaef <u>aan g</u>e miens'') In the old days, this was the same for pronouns. Only one fossilised form survived, ''get'', though its meaning has slightly shifted.

===Pronoun===
'''get'''

# [[something]]

[[Category:Limburgish pronouns]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-en get.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=gete|3=gette}}
'''get''' {{c}}

# [[goat]]

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[ar:get]]
[[zh-min-nan:get]]
[[cs:get]]
[[de:get]]
[[et:get]]
[[el:get]]
[[es:get]]
[[eu:get]]
[[fa:get]]
[[fr:get]]
[[gl:get]]
[[ko:get]]
[[hy:get]]
[[hi:get]]
[[hr:get]]
[[io:get]]
[[id:get]]
[[it:get]]
[[kn:get]]
[[kk:get]]
[[ku:get]]
[[lo:get]]
[[lt:get]]
[[li:get]]
[[hu:get]]
[[mg:get]]
[[ml:get]]
[[my:get]]
[[nl:get]]
[[ja:get]]
[[no:get]]
[[pl:get]]
[[pt:get]]
[[ro:get]]
[[ru:get]]
[[simple:get]]
[[fi:get]]
[[sv:get]]
[[ta:get]]
[[te:get]]
[[th:get]]
[[tr:get]]
[[uk:get]]
[[vi:get]]
[[vo:get]]
[[zh:get]]