==English==
{{wikipedia|Lojban grammar}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|jbo|gismu|notext=1}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɡiːs.muː/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|gismu}}

# {{lb|en|Lojban|_|grammar}} A [[brivla]] that is a basic Lojban root, rather than being derived through compounding or borrowing.
#* '''1997''', John W. Cowan, ''The Complete Lojban Language'', {{ISBN|0966028309}}:
#*: When two '''gismu''' are adjacent, the first one modifies the second, and the selbri takes its place structure from the rightmost word.
#* '''2005''', Brian D. Eubanks, ''Wicked Cool Java'', [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1593270615&id=diqHjRjMhW0C&pg=PA91&lpg=PA91&dq=gismu&sig=595_-1oi-rueN1aFqJhXGlYn9Fc]:
#*: There are over 1,300 root '''gismu''' in the Lojban vocabulary, and these structures form a very interesting ontology of their own.
#* '''2008''', Robin Turner and Nick Nicholas, ''Lojban for Beginners'':<sup>[http://jbotcan.org/docs/l4b/less2.html]</sup><sup>[http://www.lojban.org/tiki/tiki-index.php?page=Lojban%20Tutorial:%20Lesson%202]</sup>
#*: The main type of word used as a selbri is a '''gismu''', or root-word.
#*: Each '''gismu''' is exactly five letters long, and has one of two consonant-vowel patterns:CVCCV or CCVCV (e.g. rafsi or bridi). The '''gismu''' are built so as to minimize listening errors in a noisy environment. A '''gismu''' has at least two combining forms, known as rafsi. One is the '''gismu''' itself; one is the '''gismu''' with the final vowel deleted. Certain '''gismu''' have additional, shorter rafsi assigned. Up to three of these shorter rafsi may be assigned to a '''gismu''', depending on frequency of usage of the '''gismu''' in building complex concepts and on availability of these shorter rafsi. Short rafsi use only certain combinations of letters from the '''gismu''', and are of the forms CCV, CVC, CVV or CV'V.

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|brivla}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|lujvo}}
* {{l|en|fu'ivla}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|rafsi}}

----

==Lojban==

===Etymology===
{{jbo-etym
|zh='''g'''eniuan|zh_t=根源|zh_tr=gēn yuán
|en=be'''is'''|en_t=base
|hi='''mu'''l|hi_t=मूल|hi_tr=mūl
|es=ra'''is'''|es_t=raíz
}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɡismu/|lang=jbo}}

===Gismu===
{{jbo-gismu|gim|gi'u}}

# {{lb|jbo|grammar}} {{lb|jbo|selbri}} {{sumti|1}} is a (Lojban) [[root word]] expressing relation {{sumti|2}} among argument roles {{sumti|3}}, with affix(es) {{sumti|4}}
# {{lb|jbo|grammar}} {{lb|jbo|sumti}} {{l|en|root word}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|Lojban root word}}
** {{l|jbo|cmavo|gloss={{l|en|structure words}} ie: {{l|en|conjunctions}}, {{l|en|prepositions}}, {{l|en|articles}}, {{l|en|numerals}}, and some {{l|en|adverbs}}}}}},
** {{l|jbo|cmene|gloss=}},
** {{l|jbo|lujvo|gloss={{l|en|compound predicate word}}}},
** {{l|jbo|smuni|gloss=a {{l|en|meaning}}/{{l|en|interpretation}}}},
** {{l|jbo|sumti|gloss={{l|en|argument}}}},
** {{l|jbo|tanru|gloss=}},
** {{l|jbo|valsi|gloss=a {{l|en|word}}}}

===See also===
* [[rafsi]]

===References===
* [http://www.lojban.org/cgi-bin/dict.pl?Form=dict.pl1&Query=gismu&Strategy=*&Database=*&submit=Submit+query gismu dictionary query] & [http://jbovlaste.lojban.org/dict/gismu jbovlaste for gismu] (for licensing information see [[:Template:Lojban copyright]])
* Notes:
<references/>