==English==
{{slim-wikipedia|dab=give}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡɪv/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/gIv/}}
* {{audio|en-us-give.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-to give.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪv}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|given|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|non}} {{term|gefa||to give|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|gebanan||to give|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{recons|gʰab(ʰ)-||to take, hold, have|lang=ine-pro}}. Displaced or merged with native Middle English {{term|yiven|lang=enm}}, {{term|ȝeven|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|giefan|ġiefan|lang=ang}}, from the same Proto-Germanic source (cf. the inherited now obsolete English {{term|yive|lang=en}}). Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|gie||to give|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|give||to give|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|giva|lang=sv}}, {{term|ge||to give|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|gefa||to give|lang=is}}, {{etyl|frr|-}} {{term|jiw|lang=frr}}, {{term|jiiw|lang=frr}}, {{term|jeewe||to give|lang=frr}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|jaan||to give|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|geven||to give|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|geben||to give|lang=de}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|habeo|habeō|have, hold|lang=la}}, {{etyl|sga|-}} {{term|gaibim||I hold|lang=sga}}, {{etyl|sq|-}} {{term|jep||to give, allow, lend|lang=sq}}, {{etyl|lt|-}} {{term|gabenti||to carry, transport|lang=lt}}, {{etyl|pl|-}} {{term|chapać||to grab, snatch|lang=pl}}, {{etyl|sa|-}} {{term|||tr=gabhasti|hand|lang=sa}}.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|gives|giving|gave|given}}

# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To [[transfer]] one's possession or holding of (something) to (someone).
#: ''I '''gave''' him my coat.''
#: ''I '''gave''' my coat to the beggar.''
#: ''When they asked, I '''gave''' my coat.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To make a [[present]] or [[gift]] of.
#: ''I'm going to '''give''' my wife a necklace for her birthday.''
#: ''She '''gave''' a pair of shoes to her husband for their anniversary.''
#: ''He '''gives''' of his energies to the organization.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[yield]] [[slightly]] when a force is applied.
#* {{quote-book|title=Lincoln at Gettysburg|chapter=prologue|author=[[w:Garry Wills|Garry Wills]]|page=21|date=1992|passage=A soldier noticed how earth "'''gave'''" as he walked over the shallow trenches.}}
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To [[estimate]] or [[predict]] (a duration or probability) for (something).
#: I '''give''' it ten minutes before he gives up.
#: I '''give''' it a 95% chance of success.
#: I'll '''give''' their marriage six months.''
# {{intransitive}} To collapse under pressure or force.
#: ''One pillar '''gave''', then more, and suddenly the whole floor pancaked onto the floor below.''
# {{transitive}} To [[provide]], as, a [[service]] or a [[broadcast]].
#: ''They're '''giving''' my favorite show!''
#* '''2003''', Iain Aitken, ''Value-Driven IT Management: Commercializing the IT Function'', page 153
#*: [...] who did not have a culture in which ''''giving''' good presentation' and successfully playing the internal political game was the way up.
#* '''2006''', Christopher Matthew Spencer ''The Ebay Entrepreneur'', page 248
#*: A friendly voice on the phone welcoming prospective new clients is a must. Don't underestimate the importance of '''giving''' good "phone".
# {{intransitive}} To [[lead]] (onto or into).
#: ''The master bedroom '''gives''' onto a spacious balcony.''
# To [[pledge]].
#: ''I '''gave''' my word that I'd protect his children.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To [[provide]] (something) to (someone), to [[allow]] or [[afford]].
#: ''I '''gave''' them permission to miss tomorrow's class.''
#: '''''Give''' me some more time.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To cause (a sensation or feeling) to exist in.
#: ''It '''gives''' me a lot of pleasure to be here tonight.''
#: ''The fence '''gave''' me an electric shock.''
#: ''My mother-in-law '''gives''' me nothing but grief.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To [[carry out]] (a physical interaction) with (something).
#: ''I want to '''give''' you a kiss.''
#: ''She '''gave''' him a hug.''
#: ''I'd like to '''give''' the tire a kick.''
#: ''I '''gave''' the boy a '''push''' on the swing.''
#: ''She '''gave''' me a wink afterwards, so I knew she was joking.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To pass (something) into (someone's) hand or the like.
#: '''''Give''' me your hand.''
#: ''On entering the house, he '''gave''' his coat to the doorman.''
# {{transitive|may take two objects}} To cause (a disease or condition) in, or to transmit (a disease or condition) to.
#: ''My boyfriend '''gave''' me chlamydia.''
#: ''He was convinced that it was his alcoholism that '''gave''' him cancer.''
# {{rfdef|numerous missing senses and subsenses|lang=en}}
#: ''What '''gives'''?''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|transfer possession of}} [[donate]], [[pass]], [[transfer]]
* {{sense|bend slightly when a force is applied}} [[bend]], [[cede]], [[flex]], [[move]], [[yield]]
* {{sense|estimate or predict}} [[estimate]], [[guess]], [[predict]]
* {{sense|provide}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|transfer possession of}} [[get]], [[obtain]], [[receive]], [[take]]
* {{sense|bend slightly when a force is applied}} not bend/cede/flex/give/move/yield, [[resist]]

====Derived terms====
''See also'' '''[[given]]''', '''[[giver]]''' ''and'' '''[[giving]]'''
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''give''}}
* [[forgive]]
* [[give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime]]
* [[give and take]]
* [[give away]]
* [[give away the store]]
* [[give back]]
* [[give birth]]
* [[give forth]]
* [[give head]]
* [[give in]]
* [[give it one's all]]
* [[give it one's best shot]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[give it up for]]
* [[given]]<!--noun-->
* [[give off]]
* [[give one's all]]
* [[give on to]]<!--not "give onto"-->
* [[give or take]]
* [[give out]]
* [[give over]]
* [[give pause]]
* [[give someone a break]]
* [[give someone a chance]]
* [[give someone grief]]
* [[give someone the business]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[give someone the time of day]]
* [[give something a miss]]
* [[give something a shot]]
* [[give something a try]]
* [[give thanks]]
* [[give to understand]]
* [[give up]]
* [[give way]]
* [[it is better to give than to receive]]
* [[something's got to give]]
* [[what gives]]?
* [[you only get what you give]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transfer the possession of something to someone else}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|jep}}
* Amharic: {{t-|am|መስጠት|tr=mäsṭät|sc=Ethi}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|أعطى|tr=ʾaʿṭā}} imperfect: {{t-|ar|يعطي|tr=yuʿṭī}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: {{tø|syc|ܝܗܒ|tr=yav|sc=Syrc}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|տալ|tr=tal}}
* Aromanian: {{t-|rup|dau}}
* Basque: {{t-|eu|eman}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|даваць|tr=davác’}} {{impf}}, {{t-|be|даць|tr=dac’}} {{pf.}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|reiñ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|давам|tr=dávam}} {{impf}}, {{t+|bg|дам|tr=dam}} {{pf.}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ပေး|tr=pe:|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|donar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|給|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|给|tr=[[gěi]]|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|遞|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|递|tr=dì|sc=Hani}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{tø|crh|bermek}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|darovat}}, {{t+|cs|dát}}
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|duor}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|give}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geven}}, {{t+|nl|overhandigen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|doni}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|antaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|donner}}
* Friulian: {{tø|fur|dâ}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|dar}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|მიცემა|tr=mits’ema|sc=Geor}}, {{t-|ka|ჩუქება|tr=č'uk'eba|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|geben}}, {{t+|de|abgeben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δίνω|tr=díno}}
*: Ancient Greek: {{tø|grc|δίδωμι|tr=didomi}}
* Guaraní: {{t-|gn|me'ẽ}}
* Guernésiais: {{tø|roa-grn|baillier}}
* Haitian Creole: {{tø|ht|bay}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|נתן|tr=natán}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|देना|tr=denā}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ad}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|gefa}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|donar}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|beri}}, {{t+|id|beri|alt=memberi}}, {{t+|id|beri|alt=memberikan}}
* Interlingua: {{t-|ia|dar}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|tabhair}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|あげる|tr=ageru}}, {{t-|ja|下さる|tr=くださる, kudasaru}} {{qualifier|honorific}}, {{t-|ja|差し上げる|ja|tr={{Jpan| さしあげる}}, sashiageru}} {{qualifier|humble}}, {{t+|ja|くれる|tr=kureru}} {{qualifier|senior to junior}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|bailli}}, {{tø|roa-jer|donner}}
* Khmer: {{t-|km|ឲ្យ|tr=aoy|sc=Khmr}}, {{t-|km|អោយ|tr=aoy|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|주다|tr=juda|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|드리다|tr=deurida|sc=Hang}} {{qualifier|humble}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|dan}}, {{t+|ku|دان|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ມອບ|tr=mööb|sc=Laoo}}, {{t-|lo|ໃຫ້|tr=hȁy|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|dūt}}, {{tø|ltg|snēgt}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|do}}, {{t-|la|dare}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|dot}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|duoti}}
* Lojban: {{t+|jbo|dunda}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|дава|tr=dáva|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|beri}}
* Neapolitan: {{tø|nap|da}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|gi}}, overrekke, overlate, skjenke
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|donar}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|дати|tr=dati|sc=Cyrs}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|sellan}}, {{t+|ang|giefan|alt=ġiefan}}
* Old French: {{tø|fro|doner}}
* Old Saxon: {{tø|osx|gevan}}, {{tø|osx|geƀan}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دادن|tr=dādæn}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dać}}, {{t+|pl|dawać}}, {{t+|pl|przekazać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|da}}
* Romansch: {{t-|rm|dar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|давать|tr=davát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|дать|tr=dat’}} {{pf.}}; {{t+|ru|дарить|tr=darít’}}, {{t+|ru|подарить|tr=podarít’}} {{qualifier|as a gift}}
* Sardinian: {{tø|sro|dàe}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|thoir}}, {{t-|gd|tabhair}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|дати}}, {{t-|sh|давати}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|dati}}, {{t-|sh|davati}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|dari}}
* Sindhi: {{t-|sd|ڏِئَڻُ|tr=ddiarnu|sc=sd-Arab}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|dať}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dati}}, {{t-|sl|podariti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dar}}, {{t+|es|entregar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kupa}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ge}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|bigay}}
* Tajik: {{t-|tg|додан|tr=dodan|sc=Cyrl}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|ให้|tr=hai}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t-|tpi|givim}}, {{t-|tpi|gipim}}
* Tupinambá: [[me'eng]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|vermek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|давати|tr=daváty}} {{impf}}, {{t+|uk|дати|tr=dáty}} {{pf.}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|دینا|tr=denā}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|cho}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|rhoi}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|jaan}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|געבן|tr=gebn|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bend slightly when a force is applied}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|give efter}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|antaa periksi}}
* German: {{t+|de|nachgeben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υποχωρώ|tr=ipochoró}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|попушта|tr=pópušta|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|gi etter}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|податься|tr=podát’sja}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ge efter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[לתת]] (latet)
* {{ttbc|tl}}: [[magbigáy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{uncountable}} The [[amount]] of bending that something undergoes when a force is applied to it.
#: ''This chair doesn't have much '''give'''.''

===Statistics===
* {{rank|hand|young|place|154|give|ever|saw|things}}

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English verbs with two objects]]

----

==Danish==

===Alternative forms===
* [[gi']] (representing the spoken language)

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|gefa|lang=non}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡiː/|/ɡiːvɐ/|[ˈɡ̊iːˀ]|[ˈɡ̊iːʋɐ]|lang=da}}
* {{rhymes|iː|iːvɐ|lang=da}}

===Verb===
{{da-verb|giv|give|giver|gav|har|givet}}

# [[give#English|give]]

[[Category:Danish strong verbs]]

[[ar:give]]
[[ast:give]]
[[zh-min-nan:give]]
[[ca:give]]
[[cs:give]]
[[cy:give]]
[[da:give]]
[[de:give]]
[[et:give]]
[[el:give]]
[[es:give]]
[[eo:give]]
[[eu:give]]
[[fr:give]]
[[gl:give]]
[[ko:give]]
[[hi:give]]
[[hr:give]]
[[io:give]]
[[id:give]]
[[it:give]]
[[kn:give]]
[[kk:give]]
[[ku:give]]
[[la:give]]
[[lv:give]]
[[lt:give]]
[[li:give]]
[[hu:give]]
[[mg:give]]
[[ml:give]]
[[my:give]]
[[fj:give]]
[[nl:give]]
[[ja:give]]
[[no:give]]
[[oc:give]]
[[pl:give]]
[[pt:give]]
[[ro:give]]
[[ru:give]]
[[sm:give]]
[[simple:give]]
[[fi:give]]
[[sv:give]]
[[tl:give]]
[[ta:give]]
[[te:give]]
[[th:give]]
[[tr:give]]
[[uk:give]]
[[vi:give]]
[[zh:give]]