{{also|góneʼ}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[ywent]] (obsolete verb form)

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|gon|lang=enm}}, {{term|igon|lang=enm}}, {{term|gan|lang=enm}}, {{term|ȝegan|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|gān}}, {{m|ang|ġegān}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*gānaz||gone}}, past participle of {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*gāną||to go}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|gane||gone|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|gien||gone|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|gegaan||gone|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|gŏn}}, {{IPA|/ɡɒn/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒn|lang=en}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ɡɔn/|lang=en}}, {{enPR|gôn}}; {{a|cot-caught}} {{IPA|/ɡɑn/|lang=en}}, {{enPR|gŏn}}
* {{rhymes|ɔːn|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-gone.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|past participle}}

# {{past participle of|go|lang=en}}

====Derived terms====
* [[goner]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[away|Away]], having left.
#: ''Are they '''gone''' already?''
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} No longer part of the present situation.
#: ''Don't both trying to understand what Grandma says, she's '''gone'''.''
#: ''He won't be going out with us tonight. Now that he's engaged, he's '''gone'''.''
#: ''Have you seen their revenue numbers? They're '''gone'''.''
# No longer [[existing]], having [[passed]].
#: ''The days of my youth are '''gone'''.''
# [[used up|Used up]].
#: ''I'm afraid all the coffee's '''gone''' at the moment.''
# [[dead|Dead]].
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} [[intoxicated|Intoxicated]] to the point of being unaware of one's surroundings
#: ''Dude, look at Jack. He's completely '''gone'''.''
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} [[excellent|Excellent]]; wonderful.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} [[ago|Ago]] (used post-positionally).
#* '''1999''', {{w|George RR Martin}}, ''A Clash of Kings'', Bantam 2011, p. 491:
#*: Six nights '''gone''', your brother fell upon my uncle Stafford, encamped with his host at a village called Oxcross not three days ride from Casterly Rock.

====Translations====
{{checktrans-top}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|ido}}, {{t+check|es|llevado}}, {{t+check|es|desaparecido|m}}, {{t+check|es|quitado}}, {{t+check|es|separado}}, {{t+check|es|faltando}}, {{t-check|es|abulido}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# {{context|British|informal|lang=en}} [[past|Past]], [[after]], [[later]] than (a time).
#: ''You'd better hurry up, it's '''gone''' four o'clock.''

===Statistics===
* {{rank|along|four|wish|328|gone|times|girl|during}}

===Anagrams===
* [[geon#English|geon]]

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
----

==Fijian==

===Noun===
{{head|fj|noun}}

# [[child]]

[[Category:fj:People]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Apparently from {{etyl|frp|fr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡon/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|Lyon|_|dialect|lang=fr}} [[kid]] (child)

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[ca:gone]]
[[de:gone]]
[[et:gone]]
[[el:gone]]
[[es:gone]]
[[fr:gone]]
[[ko:gone]]
[[hy:gone]]
[[io:gone]]
[[is:gone]]
[[it:gone]]
[[ku:gone]]
[[lt:gone]]
[[li:gone]]
[[hu:gone]]
[[mg:gone]]
[[ml:gone]]
[[my:gone]]
[[fj:gone]]
[[nl:gone]]
[[ja:gone]]
[[oc:gone]]
[[pl:gone]]
[[ru:gone]]
[[simple:gone]]
[[sh:gone]]
[[fi:gone]]
[[sv:gone]]
[[te:gone]]
[[th:gone]]
[[chr:gone]]
[[tr:gone]]
[[vi:gone]]
[[zh:gone]]