{{also|Google}}
{{also|googlé}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|go͞o'gəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈguːgəl/}}, {{SAMPA|/"gu:g@l/}}

====Homophones====
* [[Google]]
* [[googol]]

===Etymology 1===
From '''[[googly]]'''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|googl|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} {{cricket}} To deliver [[googlies]].
# {{intransitive}} {{cricket}} To move as a ball in a [[googly]].

<!--

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|deliver googlies}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move a ball in a googly}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

-->

===Etymology 2===
From [[Google]]™.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[internet]] [[search]], such as that which is performed on the Google search engine.
# A quick look (for something or someone), either on the Internet or in a place.
#: ''I took a google round the room'' (= I quickly looked around the room but not very thoroughly.)
#: ''He did a google'' (= He did a search on the Internet)
# {{internet}} A [[hit]] obtained by a search engine.
#: ''The word "oceanfront" has 6,150,000 '''googles''', so I think it must be a real word.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[kilogoogle]]<!-- = 1024 search engine hits-->
* [[megagoogle]]<!--(rare) = 1024 kilogoogles-->
* [[googleblock]]
* [[googlebomb]]
* [[Google ghost]]
* [[googledork]]
* [[google-proof]]
* [[googles]]
* [[googlewhack]]
* [[googlewhore]]<!-- - One who loves all things google and auspiciously promotes their services through discussion to friends/family. "Did you see my Google map yet? I've been googlewhoring it to everybody"-->
* [[googlicious]]
* [[googlish]]
* [[googlical]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[googol]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a search using Google}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|гуглање|n|tr=gùglanje|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|guglanie|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a search using any comprehensive search engine}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|пребарување|n|tr=prebarùvanje|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|googl|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[search]] for (something) on the [[Internet]] using [[Google]]™.
#: ''Tom googles all of his prospective girlfriends.''
# {{transitive}} By extension, to search for (something) on the Internet using any [[comprehensive]] search engine.
#: ''I googled him but there were no references to him on the Internet''
# {{intransitive}} {{internet}} To be locatable in a search of the Internet.
#: ''His name '''googles'''.''

=====Quotations=====
* '''1998''' (first usage): {{cite web
|last=Page
|first=Larry
|authorlink=w:Larry Page
|date=July 8
|url=http://web.archive.org/web/19991009052012/www.egroups.com/group/google-friends/3.html
|title=Google Search Engine: New Features
|publisher=Google Friends Mailing List
|accessdate=2007-08-06
}}
*: "Have fun and keep '''googling'''!"
* '''2002''': {{cite news
| first = Bill
| last = Keller
| url = http://www.nytimes.com/2002/12/28/opinion/28KELL.html?pagewanted=2&todaysheadlines
| title = Who's Sorry Now?
| work = New York Times
| page = A-19
| date = 28 December 2002
| accessdate = 2007-06-24
}}
*: "'''Googling''' in [[search]] of an [[apology]] from the former Enron C.E.O.…"
* '''2002''': ''[[w:Maid In Manhattan|Maid In Manhattan]]''. Marisa's ([[w:Jennifer Lopez|Jennifer Lopez]]) son cannot find the answer to a question.
*: "'''Google''' it."
* '''2002''': ''[[w:Buffy the Vampire Slayer|Buffy the Vampire Slayer]]'' episode "[[w:Help (Buffy episode)|Help]]", 15 October 2002. Xander reviews a high-school student's records.
*: ''Willow'': Have you googled her yet?
*: ''Xander'': Willow! She's 17!
*: ''Willow'': It's a search engine.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to search for on the Internet}}
* Albanian: [[googloj]], [[gugloj]]
* Bengali: (google korchee) {{rfscript|Bengali}}
* Bulgarian: [[гугълвам]], [[гугля]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[googlejar]]
* Croatian: [[googlati]], [[guglati]]
* Danish: {{t-|da|google}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|googelen}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|googeldama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|googlata}}, {{t-|fi|googlettaa}}
* French: [[googler]], [[gougler]]
* German: {{t+|de|googeln}}, {{t|de|googlen}}
* [[Gujarati]]: (google karvu) {{rfscript|Gujarati}}
* Hindi: (google karna) {{rfscript|Deva}}
* Icelandic: [[gúgla]], [[að gúgla]]
* Italian: [[googlare]]
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ググる|tr=guguru|sc=Jpan}}
* Lithuanian: [[pagooglinti]], [[pagūglinti]], [[gооglinti]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|гугла|tr=gùgla|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|прогуглува|tr=progùgluva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* [[Malayalam]]: (google cheyyoo) {{rfscript|Malayalam}}
* Maltese: [[iggoogilja]]
* Nepali: (google garnu) {{rfscript|Deva}}
* [[Newari]]: (google yayegu) {{rfscript|Deva}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|google}}, [[googla]] (depending on slang/dialect)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|googlować}}, {{t+|pl|guglać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|googlar}}, {{t+|pt|guglar}}
* Romanian: [[a gugăli]], [[a googăli]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гуглить|tr=gúglit’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: [[guglati]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|googlear}}, [[guglear]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|googla}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[i-google]]
* [[Tamil]]: (google pannu) {{rfscript|Taml}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|గుగుల్ చేయ్యి|tr=google cheyyi}}
* Turkish: [[gugullamak]], [[googlelamak]], [[google'lamak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--'''Internet: be locatable in a search of the Internet'''
{{trans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{bottom}}-->

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[לגגל]] (le-gagel)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[googlie]], [[googly]]
* [[madame linkmonger]]

====External links====
* [http://www.google.com www.google.com]

----

==French==

===Verb===
{{fr-verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|googler||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|googler||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|googler||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|googler||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|googler||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}


[[fr:google]]
[[gu:google]]
[[hu:google]]
[[nl:google]]
[[ja:google]]
[[no:google]]
[[pt:google]]
[[ru:google]]
[[simple:google]]
[[fi:google]]
[[sv:google]]
[[zh:google]]