==English==
{{was wotd|2016|September|4}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|googol|plex|lang=en}}. Like the word ''googol'', ''googolplex'' was coined by American mathematicians {{w|Edward Kasner}} (1878–1955) and {{w|James R. Newman}} (1907–1966) in their book ''{{w|Mathematics and the Imagination}}'' (1940) (see the quotation below).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈɡuːɡəlplɛks/|/ˈɡuːɡɒlplɛks/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|/ˈɡuɡəlplɛks/|/ˈɡuɡɑlplɛks/|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|goo|gol|plex|lang=en}}

===Numeral===
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{lb|en|cardinal}} The number <math>10^{10^{100}}</math>, ten to the [[power]] of a [[googol]]. {{defdate|from 1940.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Edward Kasner|authorlink=Edward Kasner|author2=James [Roy] Newman|authorlink2=James R. Newman|chapter=New Names for Old|title={{w|Mathematics and the Imagination}}|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher={{w|Simon & Schuster}}|year=1940|page=23|oclc=525772|passage=It was first suggested that a '''googolplex''' should be 1, followed by writing zeros until you got tired. This is a description of what would happen if one actually tried to write a '''googolplex''', but different people get tired at different times and it would never do to have Carnera a better mathematician than Dr. [[w:Albert Einstein|[Albert] Einstein]], simply because he had more endurance. The '''googolplex''' then, is a specific finite number, with so many zeros after the 1 that the number of zeros is a googol. A '''googolplex''' is much bigger than a googol, much bigger than a googol times a googol. A googol times a googol would be 1 with 200 zeros, whereas a '''googolplex''' is one with a googol of zeros. You will get some idea of the size of this very large but finite number from the fact that there would not be enough room to write it, if you went to the farthest star, touring all the nebulae and putting down zeros every inch of the way.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Ralph E. Boyer|title=Florida Real Estate Transactions|year=1976|pages=930–931|oclc=1731075|passage=Competition among bidders eventually resulted in the discovery of the "'''Googolplex'''," a quantity supposedly as near to nothing as possible—one over one with countless zeros [<math>\frac{1}{10^{10^{100}}}</math> as the size of the portion of land the bidder would accept as security for a tax lien]. This, however, was not the limit of minuteness. The "'''Googolplex''' of a '''Googolplex'''," or "Gee Gee" for short, became the common bid in the sale of City of Miami tax certificates. There has apparently been no authoritative determination of the effect of an outstanding Miami tax certificate {{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Carl Sagan|authorlink=Carl Sagan|chapter=chapter IX|title=[[w:Cosmos (Carl Sagan book)|Cosmos]]|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher={{w|Random House}}|year=1980|isbn=978-0-394-50294-6|passage=If the universe were packed solid with neutrons, say, so there was no empty space anywhere, there would still only be about 10<sup>128</sup> particles in it, quite a bit more than a googol but trivially small compared to a '''googolplex'''.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=K. G. Johansson|title=Googolplex|location=[Sweden?]|publisher=Affront|year=2015|isbn=978-91-87585-36-4|passage=The theoretical number of nucleic acids in DNA, Jack had heard centuries ago, was ten to the power of one hundred and twenty thousand. He couldn't even imagine a number that would hold the set of possible universes, meaning every possible state and position for every particle in every Planck time. '''Googolplex''', he thought, 1 followed by a googol of zeroes: '''googolplex''' raised to the power of '''googolplex'''.}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|googol}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|ten to the power of a googol}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|googolplex}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|googolplex}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|古戈爾普勒克斯|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|古戈尔普勒克斯|tr=gǔgēěr pǔlēikèsī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|googolplex}}
* Danish: {{t|da|googolplex}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|googolplex}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|gugloplekso}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|googolplex}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gogolplex}}
* German: {{t|de|Googolplex}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|googolplex}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|googolplex}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|googolplex}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|googolplex}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|グーゴルプレックス|tr=gūgoru-purekkusu}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|구골플렉스|tr=gugolpeullekseu}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|gugolplekss}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|gugolpleksas}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|googolpleks}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|googolplex}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|googolplex}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|googolplex}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|googolplex}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|гуголплекс}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|googolplex}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|googolplex}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|googolplex}}
* Thai: {{t|th|กูกอลเพลกซ์|tr=googonplék}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|googolplex}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Numeral===
{{head|pt|numeral|g=m}}

# {{lb|pt|cardinal}} {{l|en|googolplex}} {{gloss|ten to the power of a googol}}

[[et:googolplex]]
[[fr:googolplex]]
[[it:googolplex]]
[[lt:googolplex]]
[[pt:googolplex]]
[[fi:googolplex]]
[[sv:googolplex]]
[[ta:googolplex]]
[[tr:googolplex]]