{{also|Gourmet}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
1820, from {{etyl|fr}} {{term|gourmet|lang=fr}} from {{etyl|frm}} {{term|gourmet|lang=frm}} from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|groumet|lang=fro}} "wine broker, valet in charge of wines, servant" from {{fro}} {{term|grommes|lang=fro}} "manservant", of {{etyl|gem}} origin, from {{etyl|enm}} {{term|grom|grom, grome|lang=enm}} "boy, valet, servant", of unknown origin, perhaps from {{etyl|ang}} *{{term||grōma|lang=ang}} "male child, boy, youth" from {{ang}} {{term|growan|grōwan|lang=ang}} "to grow". More at {{l|en|groom}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/goʊɹˈmeɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/goUr\"meI/}}
* {{rhymes|eɪ}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|of food}} [[fine]]
#: '''Gourmet''' ''coffee is just like regular coffee, only better.''
#: ''We need to go to the '''gourmet''' grocery store to get the exotic ingredients for this recipe.''

====Usage notes====
'''Gourmet''' has become somewhat [[debased]] by marketing usage, and is considered by some a [[pretentious]] [[middlebrow]] term. Such users tend to prefer terms such as {{term|artisanal}} (emphasizing the craft) for fine food.

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|artisanal}}

====Translations====
* French: {{t+|fr|gastronomique}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[connoisseur]] in eating and drinking. Also called a [[foodie]], a gourmet is someone who takes their [[food]] considerably more seriously than most. Some might say that they live to eat rather than eating to live. They appreciate fine quality of food. Gourmets started the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slow_Food Slow Food] movement.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|connoisseur}}
* Chinese: [[美食者]],[[精通吃的人]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|labužník|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gastronoom|m}},  {{t|nl|gastronome|f}},  {{t|nl|fijnproever|m}},  {{t|nl|fijnproefster|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|herkuttelija}}, {{t+|fi|herkkusuu}},  {{t+|fi|gourmet}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gourmet|m}},  {{t+|fr|gastronome}},  {{t|fr|fine gueule}}
* German: {{t-|de|Feinschmecker}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|ínyenc}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|buongustaio}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|食通|tr=shokutsū}}, {{t|ja|美食家|tr=bishoku-ka}}, {{t|ja|グルメ|tr=gurume}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гурман|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* A [[gourmand]] is someone interested in quantity of food as well as quality.

===See also===
* [[haute cuisine]].

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|frm|fr}} {{term|gourmet|lang=frm}} from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|groumet|lang=fro}} "wine broker, valet in charge of wines, servant" from {{fro|fr}} {{term|grommes|lang=fro}} "manservant", of {{etyl|gem|fr}} origin, from {{etyl|enm}} {{term|grom|grom, grome|lang=enm}} "boy, valet, servant", of unknown origin, perhaps from {{etyl|ang|fr}} *{{term||grōma|lang=ang}} "male child, boy, youth" from {{ang|fr}} {{term|growan|grōwan|lang=ang}} "to grow". More at {{l|en|groom}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡuʁ.mɛ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|of wines}} A wine [[expert]], especially one who is adept at determining the label, date, and sundry other qualities solely by [[smatch]].
# {{italbrac|more commonly}} A culinary [[connoisseur]], {{l|en|gourmet}}.

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fr|it}}

===Noun===
'''gourmet''' {{m|f|inv}}

# [[#English|gourmet]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[fr:gourmet]]
[[io:gourmet]]
[[it:gourmet]]
[[kn:gourmet]]
[[hu:gourmet]]
[[ru:gourmet]]
[[fi:gourmet]]
[[sv:gourmet]]
[[ta:gourmet]]
[[tr:gourmet]]
[[vi:gourmet]]
[[zh:gourmet]]