==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|graduātus||graduated}}, from {{term|gradus||step|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{rel-top|Pronunciation, UK and US, for each part of speech}}
; Noun and adjective
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɡrædjuət/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|grăjʹo͞o-ĭt}}, {{IPA|/ˈɡrædʒuɪt/|lang=en}}
; Verb
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɡrædjueɪt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|grăjʹo͞o-āt}}, {{IPA|/ˈɡrædʒueɪt/|lang=en}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{senseid|en|from a university}} A person who is recognized by a [[university]] as having completed the requirements of a [[degree]] studied at the institution.
#: ''If the government wants '''graduates''' to stay in the country they should offer more incentives''.
# {{context|US|Canada|lang=en}} A person who is recognized by a [[high school]] as having completed the requirements of a course of study at the school.
# A graduated (marked) cup or other [[container]], thus fit for measuring.

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|person recognized for having finished studies}} [[student]],<!-- not yet finished --> [[drop-out]]<!-- left without finishing -->

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|person recognized by school}} {{l|en|graduand}}, {{l|en|undergraduate}}, {{l|en|postgraduate}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|from a university}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|畢業生|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|毕业生|tr=bìyèshēng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|absolvent|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|akademiker}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|afgestudeerde|m}}
* Finnish: No exact equivalent, check [[maisteri]], {{t+|fi|valmistua}}, [[tutkinto]] for usage.
* French: {{t+|fr|licencié|m}}, {{t+|fr|licenciée|f}}, {{t+|fr|diplômé|m}}, {{t+|fr|diplômée|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Absolvent|m}}, {{t|de|Absolventin|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|céimí|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|laureato|m}}, {{t+|it|laureata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|卒業生|tr=そつぎょうせい, sotsugyōsei}}
* Latin: {{t|la|graduatus|m}}, {{t|la|graduata|f}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|siswazah}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|graduado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выпускни́к|m}}, {{t+|ru|выпускни́ца|f}}, {{t+|ru|диплома́нт|m}}, {{t+|ru|диплома́нтка|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|absolwent|m}}, {{t|dsb|absolwentka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|graduado|m}}, {{t+|es|graduada|f}}, {{t+|es|graduados|p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|US: from a high school}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|畢業生|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|毕业生|tr=bìyèshēng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abituriënt|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ylioppilas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Absolvent|m}}, {{t+|de|Absolventin|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|diplomato|m}}, {{t+|it|diplomata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|卒業生|tr=そつぎょうせい, sotsugyōsei}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выпускни́к|m}}, {{t+|ru|выпускни́ца|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|graduato|m}}, {{t-check|ia|graduata|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|graduado|m}}, {{t-check|es|graduada|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# graduated, arranged by [[degrees]]
# holding an [[academic]] [[degree]]
# relating to an [[academic]] [[degree]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|graduat}}

# {{context|intransitive|ergative|lang=en}} To be recognized by a [[school]] or [[university]] as having completed the requirements of a [[degree]] studied at the institution.
#: ''The man '''graduated''' in 1967.''
#: ''Trisha '''graduated''' from college.''
# {{label|en|transitive|proscribed}} To be certified as having earned a degree from; to graduate from (an institution).
#: ''Trisha '''graduated''' college.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To certify (a student) as having earned a degree
#: ''Indiana University '''graduated''' the student.''
#: ''The college '''graduated''' him as soon as he was no longer eligible to play under NCAA rules.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To mark (something) with [[degree]]s; to divide into regular steps or intervals, as the scale of a thermometer, a scheme of punishment or rewards, etc.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To change gradually.
#: ''sandstone which '''graduates''' into gneiss; carnelian sometimes '''graduates''' into quartz''
# To prepare gradually; to arrange, temper, or modify by degrees or to a certain degree; to determine the degrees of.
#: ''to '''graduate''' the heat of an oven''
#* Browne
#*: Dyers advance and '''graduate''' their colours with salts.
# {{context|chemistry|lang=en}} To bring to a certain degree of consistency, by evaporation, as a fluid.
# To taper, as the tail of certain birds.

====Usage notes====
In the sense “to complete studies”, usage has shifted from the 19th century through the 21st century.<ref name="garner">''Garner's Modern American Usage,'' Bryan Garner, 2009, [https://books.google.com/books?id=FwmQpyibKkAC&pg=PA399&dq=graduate pp. 399–400]</ref> Originally (from the 16th century) used transitively as “the school '''graduated''' the student” or passively as “the '''student''' was graduated [from the school, by the school]”; compare {{m|en|certify}}. In the 19th century began to be used as an [[ergative]] verb in the intransitive form “the student '''graduated''' ''from'' school”, “the student '''graduated'''”; the ergative occurs in English for change of state (compare {{m|en|break}}, {{m|en|melt}}), and reverses the subject compared to the transitive form: the student is the subject, not the school. This was originally proscribed, but was generally accepted by mid-20th century, and is now the preferred usage. The form “was '''graduated''' from” is an archaic fossil, seen primarily in wedding invitations and obituaries, though the active form “the school '''graduated''' the student” is still in use. A further shift started mid-20th century, using the verb transitively with student subject, as in “the student '''graduated''' college” (note no “from”). This has been used in major periodicals from the 1990s, but remains proscribed into the 21st century, being considered at best informal, at worst uneducated.

Note that there are thus two transitive forms, with the subject and object switching between the school and the student: “I '''graduated''' Indiana University” (newer, proscribed) vs. “Indiana University '''graduated''' me” (older, somewhat old-fashioned).

====Derived terms====
* [[graduator]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to be recognized by a university as having completed the requirements of a degree}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|درج|tr=darraja}}, {{t|ar|تخرج|tr=taxárraja|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|畢業|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|毕业|tr=bìyè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|promovat}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|promoveren}}, {{t+|nl|afstuderen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valmistua}}, [[suorittaa]] [[tutkinto]], [[saada]] [[oppiarvo]]
* French: [[obtenir]] sa [[licence#French|licence]]
* German: {{t+|de|absolvieren}}
* Italian: {{t|it|laurearsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|卒業|tr=そつぎょうする, sotsugyō suru|alt=卒業する|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|졸업하다|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{qualifier|literally, to receive a degree}} {{t|la|suscipere|alt=gradum suscipere}}, {{qualifier|literally, to attain a diploma of studies}} {{t|la|adipisci|alt=diploma studiorum adipisci}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|[[formar]]-[[se]]}}, {{t|pt|graduar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|окончить|tr=okónčitʹ}} (+ [[учебное заведение]])
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|ceumnaich}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|promovať|impf|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|graduarse}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tốt nghiệp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|US: to be recognized by a high school as having completed the requirements of a course of study}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|畢業|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|毕业|tr=bìyè|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|promoveren}}, {{t+|nl|afstuderen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[suorittaa]] [[ylioppilastutkinto]]
* Italian: {{t|it|diplomarsi}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|卒業|tr=そつぎょうする, sotsugyō suru|alt=卒業する|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become a graduate at a ceremony}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valmistua}}, [[saada]] [[oppiarvo]], [[saada]] [[todistus]]
* French: [[devenir]] [[licencié]] {{g|m}}, devenir licenciée {{g|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|ceumnaich}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transitive: to certify (a student) as having earned a degree}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|promoveren}}
* Finnish: [[antaa]] [[todistus]], [[myöntää]] [[oppiarvo]]
* French: {{t+|fr|diplômer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{qualifier|literally, to admit someone to a degree}} {{t|la|admittere|alt=ad gradum admittere}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapōtae}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|graduar}}, {{t+|pt|formar}}, {{t|pt|diplomar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|дипломировать|tr=diplomírovatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mark a scale on (something) so it can be used for measuring}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gradueren}}
* German: {{t|de|graduieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|目盛る|tr=memoru|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|градуировать|tr=graduírovatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|graduar}}
* Maori: {{t-check|mi|puta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norman: {{t-check|nrf|graduer}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[grade]]
* [[graduation]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|graduare||2|p|pres|indc|lang=it}}
# {{inflection of|graduare||2|p|impr|lang=it}}
# {{form of|lang=it|[[feminine|Feminine]] plural|graduato}}

===Anagrams===
* [[guardate#Italian|guardate]]

[[Category:Italian past participle forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|graduāte}}

# {{inflection of|graduātus||voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[cs:graduate]]
[[cy:graduate]]
[[de:graduate]]
[[et:graduate]]
[[el:graduate]]
[[es:graduate]]
[[fr:graduate]]
[[gl:graduate]]
[[ko:graduate]]
[[hy:graduate]]
[[hr:graduate]]
[[io:graduate]]
[[id:graduate]]
[[it:graduate]]
[[kn:graduate]]
[[ku:graduate]]
[[lo:graduate]]
[[lt:graduate]]
[[hu:graduate]]
[[mg:graduate]]
[[ml:graduate]]
[[my:graduate]]
[[nl:graduate]]
[[ja:graduate]]
[[pl:graduate]]
[[ru:graduate]]
[[simple:graduate]]
[[fi:graduate]]
[[sv:graduate]]
[[ta:graduate]]
[[te:graduate]]
[[chr:graduate]]
[[vi:graduate]]
[[zh:graduate]]