==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[graff]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|graffe|lang=enm}} < {{etyl|fro}} {{term|greffe||stylus|lang=fro}} < {{etyl|la}} {{term|graphium||stylus|lang=la}} < {{etyl|grc}} {{term|γραφείον|lang=grc}} < {{term|γράφειν||to writelang=grc}}; probably akin to English {{term|carve}}. So named from the resemblance of a scion or shoot to a pointed pencil. Compare [[graphic]], [[grammar]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{countable}} A small [[shoot]] or [[scion]] of a tree inserted in another tree, the [[stock]] of which is to [[support]] and [[nourish]] it. The two [[unite]] and become one tree, but the graft determines the kind of [[fruit]].
# {{countable}} A [[branch]] or [[portion]] of a tree growing from such a shoot.
# {{surgery|countable}} A portion of living [[tissue]] used in the operation of [[autoplasty]].
# {{uncountable|colloquial}} Hard [[work]].
# {{uncountable|slang}} A criminal’s special branch of practice
# {{uncountable}} [[illicit|Illicit]] [[profit]] by [[corrupt]] [[means]], especially in public life.
# {{uncountable}} [[corruption|Corruption]] in [[official]] life.
# {{countable}} A [[con]] job.
# {{countable|slang}} A [[cut]] of the [[take]] (money).
# {{uncountable|US|politics}} A [[bribe]], especially on an ongoing basis.

{{rfex}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|small shoot or scion}}
* Czech: [[roub]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|ent|mf}}
* Indonesian: [[cangkok]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxerto]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[injerto]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|branch or portion of a tree growing from such a shoot}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|ent|mf}}
* Indonesian: [[hasil pencangkokan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxerto]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|portion of living tissue used in the operation of autoplasty}}
* Finnish: [[siirrännäinen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxerto]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|con job}}
* Finnish: [[huijaus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[golpe]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cut of the take}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|aandeel|n}}, {{t|nl|deel|n}}, {{t|nl|portie|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bribe}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|smeergeld|n}}
* Finnish: [[lahjus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[suborno]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}} 7: [[innesto]] {{m}} (1)

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To insert (a graft) in a [[branch]] or [[stem]] of another tree; to propagate by insertion in another stock; also, to insert a graft upon.
# {{surgery}} To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union.
# To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting, so as to bring about a close union.
#:* {{rfdate|see [[WT:"]]}} And '''graft''' my love immortal on thy fame! — [[Pope]]
# {{nautical}} To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc., with a weaving of small cord or rope-yarns.
# {{intransitive}} To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To insert (a graft) in a branch or stem of another tree}}
* Dutch: [[enten]] {{m}}
* Italian: [[innestare]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxertar]]
* Swedish: [[ymp]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[elinsiirto]]
* Portuguese: [[enxertar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[ymp]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting}}
* Dutch: [[enten]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxertar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc.}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc.}}
* Italian: [[innestare]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[enxertar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[stickling]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

[[fr:graft]]
[[io:graft]]
[[hu:graft]]
[[ta:graft]]
[[te:graft]]
[[vi:graft]]
[[tr:graft]]
[[zh:graft]]