{{unreferenced|date=November 2006}}
{{OR}}

'''Grammar nazi (grammer natzee) ''', '''spelling nazi''' and '''language nazi''' are all terms used to describe a participant in a discussion, online or otherwise, who criticizes or corrects the language usage of another participant. Such a person is often accused of [[flaming]] as a result of finding fault with minor details of other participants' messages and often only in opinions with which the accused grammar nazi disagrees. Participants in these discussions often end up taking opposite sides in a [[Prescription and description|prescription versus description]] debate, without realizing it.

These terms are considered derogatory by some. Others view grammar nazism as a virtue and insist upon strict usage of the language in question, as a craftsman minds his tools. These individuals are more likely to wear the badge of "grammar nazi" with pride. In some situations, a more relaxed method of speech or prose may be appropriate; it is these situations in which grammar nazis are more commonly chastised {{fact}}.

The many exceptions and intricacies of [[English language]] spelling can present a problem for even the most experienced user. In addition, the instantaneous nature of the Internet discourages careful editing of one's posts before submission, even with spell checker turned on. This, combined with the possibility of [[typographical error]]s, often makes it very easy to find an error in a message with which to find fault. In other languages, if spelling is not an issue, moods, agreement, [[diacritic]]s, and tenses provide an ample supply of opportunities to stumble.

The grammar nazi ignores the logical correctness of the argument and focuses on its grammatical correctness, distracting from the issue at hand. This method may devolve into an ''[[ad hominem]]'' attack, which is a [[logical fallacy]] however satisfying personally. On the other hand, errors and stylistic flaws may themselves make an argument hard to follow, and for this reason they may be deliberately introduced by [[internet troll|trolls]], and should be corrected.

==Origin of the phrase==
The term "grammar nazi", along with its cognates "spelling nazi", "[[soup nazi]]", and "food nazi", is a reference to the [[Nazism|Nazis]], members of the [[National Socialist German Workers Party]] under [[Adolf Hitler]]. The Nazis were known for their feelings of mastery and superiority, coupled with harsh, merciless, unilateral action.  However, as used today the phrase has no direct connection to [[National Socialist German Workers Party | national socialism]], just as calling someone a [[vandalism|vandal]] does not mean she is a [[Vandals|Vandal]]. The uncapitalized initial letter indicates the common noun. 

These uses are offensive to some, as the controversy in the popular press over the ''[[Seinfeld]]'' "[[Soup Nazi]]" episode indicates, but the terms are used so frequently as to inspire "[[Godwin's Law]]". Alternatives used in some circles include "grammar police", "grammar cop" (a term that ''[[Jeopardy!]]'' champion [[Ken Jennings]] admitted was an accurate description of himself), and even the trademarked "Grammer Cop", intentionally misspelled.

==Related terms==
Other terms with the same meaning are
*grammar [[Fascism|fascist]]
*grammar [[Gestapo]]
*grammar [[Police]]

==Other languages==
* In [[Spanish language|Spanish]], the ''grammar nazi'' is known as ''orthographic [[taliban]]'' ([[:es:Talibán ortográfico|Talibán ortográfico]])

[[Category:Grammar]]
[[Category:Slang]]

[[es:Talibán ortográfico]]