{{also|grínd}}
==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|grinden|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} ''[[grindan]]'', (cognate with Dutch [[grind]] 'gravel, shingel'), from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*grindaną}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*ghrendh-||crushing}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɡɻaɪnd/}}, {{audio|en-us-grind.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪnd}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|grinds|grinding|'''[[ground]] '''or''' [[grinded]]'''}} (''see usage notes below'')

# To reduce to [[smaller]] pieces by [[crush]]ing with [[lateral]] motion.
# To [[shape]] with the force of [[friction]].
#: '''''grind''' a lens''
#: '''''grind''' an axe''
# {{context|metalworking|lang=en}} To [[remove]] material by [[rub]]bing with an [[abrasive]] surface.
# To become ground, pulverized, or polished by friction.
#: ''This corn '''grinds''' well.''
#: ''Steel '''grinds''' to a sharp edge.''
# To move with much difficulty or friction; to [[grate]].
# {{context|sports|lang=en}} To [[slide]] the flat portion of a [[skateboard]] or [[snowboard]] across an obstacle such as a railing.
# To [[oppress]], [[hold down]] or [[weaken]].
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} To [[rotate]] the [[hips]] [[erotic]]ally.
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} To [[dance]] in a [[sexual]]ly suggestive way with both partners in very close proximity, sometimes pressed against each other.
# {{context|video games|lang=en}} To repeat a task in order to gain [[level up|levels]] or items.
# To produce [[mechanical]]ly and [[repetitive]]ly as if by turning a [[crank]].
# To instill through repetitive teaching.
#: '''''Grinding''' lessons into students' heads does not motivate them to learn.''
# {{context|slang|Hawaii|lang=en}} To [[eat]].
#: ''Eh, brah, let's go '''grind'''.''
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} To work or study hard; to [[hustle]] or [[drudge]].
#: {{rfquotek|Farrar}}

====Usage notes====
* In the sports and video game senses, the past participle and past tense form {{term|grinded|lang=en}} is often used instead of the irregular form {{term|ground|lang=en}}.
* Historically, there also existed a past participle form {{term|grounden|lang=en}}, but it is now archaic or obsolete.

====Derived terms====
* [[bump and grind]]
* [[have an axe to grind]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make smaller by breaking with a device}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|طحن|tr=TaHana}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|աղալ|sc=Armn}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|matsin}}, {{t|rup|chisedzu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|раздробявам|tr=razdrobyavam|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|moldre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|磨碎|tr=mósuì|sc=Hans}}, {{t+|cmn|磨|tr=mó|sc=Hans}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mlít}}, {{t|cs|drtit}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|macnur}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|malen}}, {{t+|nl|vermalen}}, {{t|nl|verpulveren}}
* {{trreq|eo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jauhaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|moudre}}, {{t+|fr|broyer}}, {{t+|fr|pulvériser}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|masanâ}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|moer}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დაფქვა|tr=dap'k'va|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|mahlen}}, {{t|de|zermahlen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αλέθω|tr=alétho|sc=Grek}}
* {{trreq|he}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|őröl}}, {{t+|hu|darál}}, {{t+|hu|morzsol}}, {{t+|hu|zúz}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|macinare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|挽く|tr=hiku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|moudre}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|malt}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|malt}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|raspe}}, {{t|no|rive}}, {{t+|no|male}}, {{t|no|kverne}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|mòler}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|млѣти|tr=mlěti|sc=Cyrs}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mleć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|moer}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|allpayachiy}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|măcina}}, {{t+|ro|pisa}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|moler}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|молоть|tr=molótʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|толочь|tr=tolóčʹ}} {{impf}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|molere}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|pran}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|meil}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|mlieť}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|moler}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mala}}
* Thai: {{t|th|บด|tr=bòt|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|öğütmek}}
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|gǂkxʻàa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to rotate the hips erotically}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vrtět}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|keinuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|hetkuttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rebolar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to remove material by rubbing with an abrasive surface}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|研磨|tr=yánmó|sc=Hans}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|brousit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schuren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hioa}}
* German: {{t+|de|schleifen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|köszörül}},
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|磨ぐ|tr=togu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|oro}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|raspe}}, {{t|no|skrape}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ścierać}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шлифовать|tr=šlifovátʼ|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|отшлифовать|tr=otšlifovátʼ|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pulir}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bilemek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to slide a skateboard or snowboard across an obstacle}}
* German: {{t|de|grinden}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to repeat a task in role playing games}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|nöta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: {{t+|sq|bluaj}}
* {{ttbc|br}}: [[mala]]
* {{ttbc|ca}}: [[moldre]]
* {{ttbc|sh}}: {{t|sh|mljeti}}
* {{ttbc|ee}}: [[tu]]
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[moudre]]; [[broyer]]
* {{ttbc|hi}}: [[पीसना]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|is}}: {{t+|is|mala}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[giling|menggiling]], [[asah|mengasah]], [[bubut|membubut]], [[geretak|menggeretakkan]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|macinare}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: {{t+|no|male}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[moer]] [[triturar]] (1)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: ? [[rebolar]] (2)
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|moler}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: {{t+|sv|mala}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of reducing to powder, or of sharpening, by friction.
# A specific [[degree]] of [[pulverization]] of [[coffee]] [[bean]]s.
#: ''This bag contains espresso '''grind'''.''
# A [[tedious]] [[task]].
#: ''This homework is a '''grind'''.''
# A grinding trick on a skateboard or snowboard.
# {{context|archaic|slang|lang=en}} One who studies hard; a [[swot]].
# {{l/en|grindcore|Grindcore}} {{gloss|subgenre of heavy metal}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a specific degree of pulverization of coffee beans}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jauhatus}}, {{t|fi|karkeus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άλεσμα|n|tr=álesma|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a tedious task}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|karwei|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|rutina}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:en:Coffee]]
[[Category:en:Music genres]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
Possibly a nasal variant of {{l|sq|gërdhij}}.

===Verb===
{{sq-verb|grinda|grindur}}

# to [[brawl]], to [[fight]], to [[wrangle]] [[over]]

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|sq|grij}}
* {{l|sq|gërryej}}
* {{l|sq|gërdhij}}

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɪnt|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-grind.ogg|Audio}}

===Etymology 1===
Germanic, presumably from a hypothetic Middle Dutch form grinde, cognate with Anglo-saxon grindan (hence to grind, see above)

====Alternative forms====
* [[grinde]], [[grinte]] (obsolete)
* [[grint]]

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|n|-|-}}

# {{context|geology|lang=nl}} The materials [[gravel]], [[shingle]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[grinden]] (verb)
* [[grindig]] (adjective)
* etc.

===Etymology 2===
Germanic, perhaps from the above root as a crusty rash

====Alternative forms====
* [[grinde]]

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|n|-|-}}

# {{context|archaic|pathology|lang=nl}} The diseases [[scabies]] (human), [[mange]] (canine)

=====Synonyms=====
* [[schurft]] {{g|m|f}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[grindig]] (adjective)

===Anagrams===
* [[dring#Dutch|dring]]

----

==Faroese==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|fo}} {{term|grind||lang=non|grind}}

====Noun====
{{fo-noun|f|grindar|grindir}}

# A [[framework]]
# A [[grille]]

=====Declension=====
{{fo-decl-noun-f2|grind}}

===Etymology 2===
The term is a Faroese invention. A school of pilot whales reminds of a framework (see ''grind'' above) in the sea, by swimming very close to each other. The Faroese term was loaned in many other languages; compare German [[Grindwal]], Danish [[grindehval]] or Dutch [[griend]].
More likely the word is related to the English word [[ground]] and refers to the whales frequently being grounded or easily driven onto ground.

====Noun====
{{fo-noun|f|grindar|grindir}}

# A [[school]] of [[grindahvalur]] ([[pilot whale]]s)
# The [[tvøst]] ([[meat]]) and [[spik]] ([[blubber]]) of the pilot whales
# The act of pilot whaling, [[grindadráp]]
# {{context|figuratively|lang=fo}} An [[unexpected]] [[meal]]

=====Declension=====
{{fo-decl-noun-f2|grind}}

[[Category:fo:Foods]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/krɪnt/|lang=is}}
* {{rhymes|ɪnt|lang=is}}

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{is-noun|f|grindar|grindur}}

# [[lattice]], [[grid]], [[grille]]
# [[framework]]
# {{context|order theory|lang=is}} [[lattice]]

=====Declension=====
{{is-decl-noun-f-s3|gr|i|nd}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fo|is}} {{term|grind|lang=fo}}.

====Noun====
{{is-noun|f}}

# [[pilot whale]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|pilot whale}} {{l|is|grindahvalur}}, {{l|is|marsvín}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|is|girnd}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|no}} {{term|grind|lang=non}}

===Noun===
{{nb-noun-c}}(Bokmål)<br>
{{nn-noun-f1}}(Nynorsk)

# A hinged [[gate]] across road or path where it is intersected by a [[fence]].
# A [[framework]]
# A [[grille]]

====Derived terms====
* [[beingrind]]
* [[grindgjerde]]
* [[grindhval]]
* [[grindsag]]
* [[grindstolpe]]
* [[grindverk]]
* [[grindveving]]
* [[grindåpner]]
* [[husgrind]]
* [[lekegrind]]
* [[takgrind]]

====References====
* {{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet}}
* {{R:Ordnett}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# A [[gate]]; door-like structure outside a building
# {{context|lang=sv|computing}} A gate, [[logical]] [[pathway]]

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

[[cs:grind]]
[[de:grind]]
[[et:grind]]
[[el:grind]]
[[es:grind]]
[[eu:grind]]
[[fa:grind]]
[[fr:grind]]
[[ko:grind]]
[[hr:grind]]
[[io:grind]]
[[is:grind]]
[[it:grind]]
[[kn:grind]]
[[ka:grind]]
[[li:grind]]
[[hu:grind]]
[[mg:grind]]
[[ml:grind]]
[[my:grind]]
[[nl:grind]]
[[pl:grind]]
[[ro:grind]]
[[ru:grind]]
[[simple:grind]]
[[fi:grind]]
[[sv:grind]]
[[tl:grind]]
[[ta:grind]]
[[te:grind]]
[[chr:grind]]
[[uk:grind]]
[[vi:grind]]
[[zh:grind]]