[[Category:Move to Wiktionary 2007-12]]
{{merge|grognard}}

'''Grognard''' (Fr. "grumbler" from Fr. "grogner" 1. snarl 2. grunt 3. growl 4. grumble [râler] 5. gripe [râler] and Fr. "grognon" 1. grouch 2. curmudgeon) may mean:

* [[Napoleon Bonaparte]]'s name for old veteran soldiers; specifically the Grenadiers of the Imperial Guard (Grenadiers à Pied de la Garde Impériale). They were the soldiers who were old enough to know what was going on, but junior enough in rank not to be able to affect it, and constantly complained about it.<ref>[http://www.napoleonguide.com/glossary.htm Napoleonic Glossary]</ref>
* ''slang'' for someone who enjoys playing [[wargaming#Board wargaming|board wargames]]. This use is supposed to have been coined by John Young in the early 1970s while employed by [[Simulations Publications]], Inc. Originally this term referred to the "old guard" of gamers who were playing military board games prior to 1969.
* Inside the computer game development industry, the term '''grognard''' is used to name fans who will buy every game released in a certain genre of game ([[Real-time strategy|RTS]], [[Computer role-playing game|RPG]], etc.). These dedicated game players are often viewed as a blessing and a curse, as they will ensure a certain minimum level in sales, but they will also be the most critical of any mistakes or [[Computer bug|bugs]] in the game.
* In the board game, [[role-playing game]], [[miniature wargaming]] and computer game genres, grognard may refer to an ultra-hardcore gamer, seeking reality and assembling detailed tables of probabilities and statistics. Grognard may also refer to someone with a detailed knowledge of real world history without necessarily being interested in becoming a good player or having a detailed knowledge of game mechanics or play. Grognard can also refer to a player who prefers an out-of-print edition of a game to the currently-printed edition.
* "grognard capture" is the [[event horizon]] beyond which a game series (a game and its supplements and sequels) irrecoverably becomes too inaccessibly complex for new players.  Beyond that point, the designers cannot simplify the game, because they are too dependant on existing players (grognards).  Nor can they attract new players who would dilute the influence of the grognards, because the game is too complex.  The game has been 'captured' by the 'grognards', and is, in the long run, doomed.  The phrase was coined and popularized by [[Greg Costikyan]].<ref>[http://www.costik.com/weblog/2003/08/grognard-capture.html Grognard Capture]</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Wargames]]

[[es:Grunt (Halo)]]
[[fr:Grognard]]