==English==

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{lb|en|US|dialect|Scotland|literary|children's talk}} {{en-past of|grow}}
#* '''1816''', Richard Polwhele, ''[https://books.google.ru/books?id=C0QQAAAAYAAJ&pg=RA2-PA91&dq=growed&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwinzJyy9oXQAhUHfiwKHTe2ABQ4MhDoAQgbMAA#v=onepage&q=growed&f=false The History of Cornwall]''
#*: As he '''growed''' in might and strength.
#* '''1850''', Charles Dickens, ''David Copperfield''
#*: '''Growed''', Mas'r Davy bor'? Ain't he '''growed'''ǃ said Ham.
#* '''1852''', Harriet Beecher Stowe, ''Uncle Tom's Cabin''
#*: I s'pect I '''growed'''. Don't think nobody never made me.
#* '''1895''', Francis Hopkinson Smith, ''[https://books.google.ru/books?id=EkzgL5YTRysC&pg=PT107&dq=growed&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjT-erZ-IXQAhVCWSwKHfrvAQo4RhDoAQghMAE#v=onepage&q=growed&f=false A Gentleman Vagabond and Some Others]''
#*: See how praoud an' tall he's '''growed''', with them arms of his'n straight aout an' them leetle chillen of his'n spraouting up raound him.
#* '''1976''', Preston Jones, ''The Last Meeting of the Knights of the White Magnolia''
#*: Well, sir, the idea '''growed''' and '''growed''' and by the late 1920's there was Knights of the White Magnolia lodges all over Texas and parts of Oklahoma.
#* '''November 27, 2007''', House M.D. Season 4 Episode 9, ''[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Games_(House) Games]'', 36 minutes and 39 seconds in on a Blu-Ray disk.
#*: He thinks he's gonna be great once he's all '''growed''' up.
#* The Rugrats: All '''Growed''' Up <small>(the name of a children's movie)</small>
#* '''2015?''', Gucci Mane (Radric Delantic Davis), ''Hot Stuff'' (song)
#*: Baby come and get it, cos you know I've got that hot stuff / baby come and get it cause you know that I '''growed''' up.

====References====
* [http://www.dsl.ac.uk/entry/snd/grow The Dictionary of the Scots Language]

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|degrow|edgrow}}