{{also|Grue}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2009|May|14}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|gro͞o}}, {{IPA|en|/ɡɹuː/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-grue.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|uː}}
* {{homophones|en|grew}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|gruen}}, probably from {{bor|en|gml|gruwen}} or {{bor|en|dum|gruwen}} (Dutch {{m|nl|gruwen}}), both from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*grūwijaną}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|gru}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|archaic}} To be [[frightened]]; to [[shudder]] with [[fear]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1822|author=Sir {{w|Walter Scott}}|title=[[w:The Pirate (novel)|The Pirate]]|volume=I|location=Philadelphia|publisher=H. C. Carey and I. Lea|pages=111–112|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=UKtKAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA112&lpg=PA112|passage=“It is seenteen hundred linen,” said the pedlar, giving a tweak to one of the shirts, in that knowing manner with which matrons and judges ascertain the texture of the loom&#8239;; “it’s seenteen hundred linen, and as strong as an it were dowlas. Nevertheless, mother, your bidding is to be done&#8239;; and I would have done Mr. Mordaunt’s bidding too,” he added, relaxing from his note of defiance, into the deferential whining tone with which he cajoled his customers, “if he hadna made use of profane oaths which made my very flesh '''grue''', and caused me, in some sort, to forget myself.”}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|shudder}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[shiver]], a [[shudder]].
#* '''1921''', [[w:John Buchan|John Buchan]], ''The Path of the King'', chapter 9
#*: There was a sharp '''grue''' of ice in the air.
#* '''1964''', Geoffrey Jenkins, ''A '''Grue''' of Ice'' (title)

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|shudder}}

===Etymology 2===
{{back-form|en|gruesome}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# Any [[byproduct]] of a [[gruesome]] event, such as [[gore]], [[viscera]], [[entrails]], [[blood]] and [[guts]].
#: ''The butcher was covered in the accumulated '''grue''' of a hard day's work''
#: ''There was '''grue''' everywhere after the accident''
#* '''1958''', Samuel Youd, writing as John Christopher, ''The Caves of Night''
#*: 'I've told you - it wasn't much. He tried to kiss me.' She smiled slightly. 'Just after he had shown me the family skeletons.' / 'What a lovely bit of '''grue'''!'
#* '''1996,''' Linda Badley, ''Writing Horror and the Body'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=iaHQorgoqd4C&pg=PA39&lpg=PA39&sig=0unz5oiZA5IURViNe75MsU7vHG4]
#*: ''Carrie'' is Cinderella in the body language of menstrual blood and raging hormones. King’s adolescent joy in grimaces and groans, the ''Mad'' magazine humor, and the staple of “'''grue'''” hardly need mentioning.
#* '''2002,''' Carole Nelson Douglas, ''Chapel Noir'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=ZZu4sl0P1EAC&pg=PA336&lpg=PA336&sig=dPR0ntE54xw-h3m6fByM0fgJiuc]
#*: “[...] She is quite agreeable to gruesome ghost stories, but appalled by the lust for life.” / “I admit that I am surprised by how well she handles sheer '''grue''', better than I.”
#* '''2004,''' Talbot Mundy, ''Guns of the Gods'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=PUCcyz2L1iwC&pg=PA244&lpg=PA244&sig=REDDP_txW9FrUWEogxny6lZ4wUo]
#*: “This is the '''grue''',” said Dick, holding his lantern high. / Its light fell on a circle of skeletons, all perfect, each with its head toward a brass bowl in the center.

===Etymology 3===
Probably from {{m|en|gruesome}}; first used in {{w|Jack Vance}}'s [[w:Dying Earth|Dying Earth]] universe in the 1940s, but popularized by the text-based computer game ''[[w:Zork|Zork]]'' in 1980.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[fictional]] man-eating [[predator]] that [[dwells]] in the [[dark]].
#* '''1981''', ''Byte'' magazine (volume 6):
#*: I managed to get into the house through the front once, but I was plunged into darkness and eaten by a monster called a '''grue'''.
#* '''2009''', "Jas", ''Hazadous {{SIC}} Australian animals the GRUE.... your guide'' (on Internet newsgroup ''rec.travel.australia+nz'')
#*: To find a '''grue''', turn off the light at night, or go for a walk in a dark place (but carry a flashlight with you).
#* '''2004''', "M.D. Dollahite", ''How would you imagine a grue?'' (on Internet newsgroup ''rec.games.int-fiction'')
#*: Incidentally, the best official text description I know of is in Sorcerer, when you actually become a '''grue''' and visit a '''grue''' colony. IIRC, even that description is vague, but does cannonize{{SIC}} that they are large four-legged reptiles.

===Etymology 4===
{{blend|en|green|blue}}. Coined by {{w|Nelson Goodman}} to illustrate concepts in the philosophy of science.

====Adjective====
{{wikipedia|Distinguishing blue from green in language}}
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy}} Of an object, green when first [[observe]]d before a specified time or blue when first observed after that time.
#* '''1965''', [[w:Nelson Goodman|Nelson Goodman]], ''Fact, Fiction and Forecast'',
#*: The '''grue''' property is defined as: ''x'' is grue if and only if ''x'' is green and is observed before the year 2000, or ''x'' is blue and is not observed before the year 2000.
#* '''2007''', Michael Clark, ''Paradoxes from A to Z‎''
#*: The unexamined emeralds cannot be both green and '''grue''', since if they are grue and unexamined they are blue.
#: {{syn|en|bleen}}
# {{lb|en|linguistics}} [[green|Green]] or [[blue]], as a translation from languages such as [[Welsh]] that do not distinguish between these [[hue]]s.
#: {{syn|en|bleen}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|philosophy: of an object that is first green, then blue}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|bloen}}
* German: {{t+|de|blün}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρασινογάλαζος|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|verzul}}, {{t|pt|verul}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|linguistics: green or blue in languages that do not distinguish the two colors}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|青|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|bloen}}
* German: {{t+|de|blün}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρασινογάλαζος|m}}
* Guaraní: {{t|gn|hovy}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|青い|tr=aoi|sc=Jpan}}
* Kaingang: {{t|kgp|tánh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|푸르다|sc=Kore}}
* Lakota: {{t|lkt|tȟó}}
* Mopan Maya: {{t|mop|yaʼax}}
* Old Tupi: {{t|tpw|obý}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|verzul}}, {{t|pt|verul}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|зи́ний|m}} {{qualifier|цвет}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เขียว}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|xanh}}
* Welsh: {{t-needed|cy}}

{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 5===

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|slang}} [[nutraloaf|Nutraloaf]], a bland mixture of foods served in prisons.

===See also===
* {{l|en|aquamarine}}
* {{l|en|bleen}}
* {{l|en|blue-green}}
* {{l|en|turquoise}}
* [[w:Distinguishing_blue_from_green_in_language|Wikipedia article on grue]]

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=egru|Guer.|Ruge|geru|regu|urge}}

[[Category:en:Colors]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
According to the TLFi, an early borrowing from {{bor|fr|VL.|-}} or {{bor|fr|LL.|*grua}}, from {{der|fr|la|grus|grūs, gruem}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|fr|Fr-grue.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[crane]] {{gloss|bird}}
# [[crane]] {{gloss|machine}}
# {{lb|fr|colloquial}} prostitute, hooker

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|gruter}}
* {{l|fr|grutier}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|urge}}, {{l|fr|urgé}}

[[Category:fr:Birds]]

----

==Interlingue==

===Noun===
{{ie-noun|grues}}

# {{l|en|crane}} (''animal'')

[[Category:ie:Birds]]

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
{{la-noun-form|grue}}

# {{inflection of|la|grūs||abl|s}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|nb|gml|}}, related to {{m|nb|gruve||mine}} and {{m|nb|grav||grave}}.

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-c}}

# [[fireplace]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|nb|ildsted}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|nb|nds|gruwen}}.

====Verb====
{{head|nb|verb|present tense|gruer|simple past|grua|or|gruet|or|grudde|past participle|grua|or|gruet|or|grudd}}

# To be [[queasy]] or [[nervous]] in [[anticipation]] of something.
#: {{ux|nb|Han '''gruet''' for morgendagen.|He was '''queasy''' about the following day.}}
#: {{ux|nb|Han '''grudde''' seg til [[tannlege]]n.|He was '''queasy''' about [the coming visit to] the dentist.}}

=====Usage notes=====
Can be used electively with the [[reflexive pronoun]] ''[[seg]]''.

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

[[Category:nb:Fire]]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From {{der|nn|gml|}}, related to {{m|nn|gruve||mine}} and {{m|nn|grav||grave}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|no|/²ɡrʉːə/}}

===Noun===
{{nn-noun-f2}}

# an open brick {{l|en|fireplace}}, a {{l|en|hearth}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}