{{also|guīgé}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
In early uses, inherited from {{inh|en|enm|gige}}, and in more recent times re-borrowed from (or respelled according to) that word's source, {{bor|en|fro|guige}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ɡiːʒ/|/ɡiːd͡ʒ/}}
* {{rhymes|en|iːʒ|iːdʒ|s=1}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[strap]] attached to a [[shield]], used to hang the shield over the shoulder or from the neck.
#* '''1824''', ''Archaeologia, Or, Miscellaneous Tracts, Relating to Antiquity'', page 509:
#*: The shape of the shield at this period {{...}} has at the top of its right side what was called the bouche or mouth through which the lance was couched, as may be seen in Rous's work, to which I have so often referred, and the invention of which was as old as the time of Richard II. Within side are hooks and rings for the '''guige''', and straps to attach it to the arm.
#* '''1850''', J. Hewitt, "Effigies of the De Sulneys at Newton Solney, Derbyshire", ''The Archaeological Journal'', volume 7, page 361: 
#*: The shield, slung by its '''guige''' across the right shoulder, is slightly bowed, and has been triangular in its outline. No trace of armorial device or tincture can now be found on its surface.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eggiu|gigue}}

[[Category:en:Armor]]

----

==Old French==

===Etymology===
{{bor|fro|frk|*widdja}}, which is probably related to {{der|fro|gem-pro|*wiskaz|t=bundle of straw, hay}} and modern {{cog|nl|wis|t=twig, shoot}}.<ref>{{R:nl:Etymologiebank|wis2}}</ref><ref>Langbroek, E., Quak, A. (2014). Amsterdamer Beiträge Zur Älteren Germanistik. Band 72- 2014. Netherlands: Editions Rodopi, p. 11-12</ref>

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|f}}

# {{l|en|guige}} (strap)

====Descendants====
* {{desctree|enm|gige|bor=1}}

===References===
<references/>