{{wikipedia}}
{{also|gün|gūn|gǔn|gùn|Gun}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''Lady Gunilda'' which was a huge [[crossbow]] that used powerful shot. It later became used for firearms like cannons and muskets. The {{Ger.}} woman’s name “[[Gundahild]]” , cognate to modern Scandinavian [[Gunhild]], means “war" + "battle maid”.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|gŭn}}, {{IPA|/ɡʌn/}}, {{SAMPA|/gVn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-gun.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌn}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Military}} A [[cannon]] with relatively long [[barrel]], operating with relatively low angle of fire, and having a high [[muzzle]] [[velocity]]. JP 1-02.
# {{context|Military}} A cannon with tube length 30 [[caliber]]s or more. See also: [[howitzer]]; [[mortar]]. JP 1-02.
# A very portable, short weapon, for hand use; a bullet or projectile-firing [[weapon]]; a handgun: a [[revolver]], [[pistol]], [[Derringer]], [[zipgun]], so forth.
# A less portable, long weapon; a bullet or projectile firing weapon; a [[rifle]], either manual, [[automatic]] or [[semi-automatic]]; a [[musket]] or [[shotgun]].
#: ''This is my rifle, this is my gun. One is for fighting, one is for fun.'' (U.S. military cadence, used to make recruits memorize that the only correct term for a soldier's standard-issue firearm is a [[rifle]], not a '''gun'''.)
# Any weapon that launches a projectile from a tube, even if it is not a [[firearm]], e.g., air-pressure [[pellet gun]], [[air rifle]], [[BB gun]]; or, a [[home-made]] firearm such as a [[potato gun]].
# Any device or tool that projects a substance in a superficially similar fashion to a firearm, e.g., nail gun, squirt gun, spray gun, grease gun.
# A device or tool shaped like a pistol and operated in similar fashion by pulling a trigger with the index finger, e.g., rivet gun, screw gun, price-label gun.
# {{context|surfing}} A long [[surfboard]] designed for [[surfing]] big [[wave]]s (not the same as a [[longboard]], a gun has a pointed nose and is generally a little narrower).
#: 2000: ''by the winter of 1962, the Brewer Surfboards Hawaii '''gun''' was the most in-demand big-wave equipment on the North Shore.'' &mdash; Drew Kampion at surfline.com [http://www.surfline.com/surfaz/surfaz.cfm?id=766]
# {{context|colloquial|usually plural}} [[biceps]].

====Derived terms====
{{top4}}
* [[air gun]]
* [[BB gun]]
* [[flare gun]]
* [[glue gun]]
* [[gun cotton]]
* [[gunfire]]
* [[gunflint]]
{{mid4}}
* [[gunpowder]]
* [[gunsmith]]
* [[grease gun]]
* [[machine gun]]
* [[nail gun]]
{{mid4}}
* [[pellet gun]]
* [[spear gun]]
* [[spud gun]]
* [[squirt gun]]
* [[staple gun]]
{{mid4}}
* [[Sten gun]]
* [[stick to one's guns|stick to one’s guns]]
* [[submachine gun]]
* [[toy gun]]
* [[water gun]]
{{bottom}}

====See also====
{{top3}}
* [[automatic]]
* [[bean-shooter]] (slang)
* [[cannon]]
* [[water cannon]]
* [[long rifle]]
{{mid3}}
* [[musket]]
* [[pistol]]
* [[roscoe]] (slang)
{{mid3}}
* [[sand blaster]]
* [[semi-automatic]]
* [[water cannon]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(military) A cannon with relatively long barrel, operating with relatively low angle of fire, and having a high muzzle velocity}}
* [[Breton]]: [[kanol]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kanon|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κανόνι|n|tr=kanoni|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|תותח|totákh}} {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|ágyú}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|byssa|f}}, {{t-|is|skotvopn|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cannone|m}}
* Japanese: [[銃]] ([[じゅう]], [[jū]])
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|armata|f}}, {{t+|pl|działo|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|орудие|n|tr=orúdije|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|пушка|f|tr=púška|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[scupetta]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[kanón]] {{m}}, [[delo]] {{n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|top|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cañón|m}}
* Vietnamese: [[đại bác]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(military) a cannon with tube length 30 calibers or more}}
* [[Breton]]: [[arm-tan]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kanon|n}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|תותח|totákh}} {{m}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|byssa|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pistola|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pistolet|m}}, {{t+|pl|rewolwer|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|орудие|n|tr=orúdije|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|пушка|f|tr=púška|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[scupetta]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[pištoľ]] {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pištola|f}}
* Spanish: [[arma]] de fuego {{f}}, [[pistola]] {{f}}
* Vietnamese: [[đại bác]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a very portable, short weapon, for hand use}}
* Armenian: [[ատրճանակ]] (atrč̣anak)
* [[Breton]]: [[arm-tan]] {{m}}, [[pistolenn]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|vuurwapen|n}}, {{t+|nl|pistool|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pyssy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pistolet|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πιστόλι|n|tr=pistoli|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|אקדח|ekdákh}} {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|pisztoly}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|byssa|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|fucile|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|ده‌مانچه‌|sc=KUchar}}
* Polish: [[strzelba]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пистолет|m|tr=pistolét|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gunna|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[scupetta]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|puška|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|puška|f}}
* Spanish: [[arma]] de fuego {{f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|súng lục|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a less portable, long weapon}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|vuurwapen|n}}, {{t+|nl|geweer|n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fusil|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τουφέκι|n|tr=toufeki|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|רובה|rové}} {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|puska}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|byssa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ружьё|n|tr=ružjó|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swahili: [[bunduki]] ''(nc 9/10)''
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|súng trường|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a long surfboard designed for surfing big waves}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[بندقية]]}}, {{Arab|[[مسدس]]}}
* {{ttbc|CJKV Characters}}: [[炮]], [[槍]], [[枪]], [[銃]]
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[炮]] (pào), [[槍]], [[枪]] (qiāng)
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[arme à feu]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[बंदूक]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[paf-armo]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[senapan]], [[pistol]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[arma]] de foco
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[arma da fuoco]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[銃]] (じゅう, jū), [[拳銃]] (けんじゅう, kenjū), [[鉄砲]] (てっぽう, teppō), [[大砲]] (たいほう, taihō)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Malayalam}}: [[തോക്ക്]] (thOkku)
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[pū]]
* {{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[बंदूक]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[skytevåpen]] {{n}}, [[kanon]] {{m}}, [[gevær]] {{n}}, [[pistol]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[spluwa]] {{f}} (2 ''slang'')
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[arma]] de fogo {{f}}, revóvel, [[pistola]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[strelná zbraň]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[bunduki]] ''(nc 9/10)''
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[skjutvapen]], [[kanon]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[తుపాకీ]] (tupaaki)
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[súng]]
* {{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[ביקס]] (biks)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|gun|n|ing}}

# {{italbrac|with “down”}} To shoot someone or something, usually with a firearm.
#: ''He '''gunned''' down the hitmen''.
#: ''The CEO '''gunned''' down that idea before we could present it to the board.''
# To speed something up.
#: ''He '''gunned''' the engine up''.
# To offer vigorous support to a person or cause.
#: ''He’s '''gunning''' for you''.
# To seek to attack someone; to take [[aim]] at someone.
#: ''He's been '''gunning''' for you ever since you embarrassed him at the party.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|shoot someone or something}}
* Dutch: [[neerschieten]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ampua}}
* Polish: [[zastrzelić]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[застрелить]] (zastr'elít') {{pf}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|bắn|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|speed something up}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|opdrijven}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kiihdyttää}}
* Polish: [[podkręcić]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[прибавить газу]] (pribávit' gazu), [[газовать]] (gazovát) {{impf}}, [[газануть]] (gazanút) {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|offer vigorous support}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Weapons]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɣʏn/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-gun.ogg|Dutch pronunciation}}

===Verb===
'''gun'''

# First person present tense of [[gunnen]]; allowing or indulging something (pleasurable) to somebody; [[grant]], [[indulge]], not [[envy]].

----

==Japanese==

{{ja-attention|Romaji header should be replaced with POS header|key=p}}

===Romaji===
{{romaji|ぐん}}

# {{ja-def|軍}} [[army]]

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''gun''' {{m}}

# [[testicle]], [[ball]], [[bollock]], [[egg]], [[nut]], [[orchis]], [[testis]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''gun'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of three tones, [[gūn]], [[gǔn]], or [[gùn]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Conjunction===
'''gun/gum/gu/'''

# [[that#Conjunction|that]]
#: ''an t-amadan sin '''gun''' do thagh thu'' - That fool that you voted for
#: ''am fear '''gum''' pòs aig an deireadh na mìosa'' - that man that will marry at the end of the month
#: ''an taigh '''gu''' bheil aice'' - that house that she has

===Preposition===
'''gun'''

# [[without]]
#: gun teagamh - without a doubt

[[Category:Scottish Gaelic conjunctions]]
[[Category:Scottish Gaelic prepositions]]

[[ar:gun]]
[[ca:gun]]
[[cy:gun]]
[[de:gun]]
[[et:gun]]
[[fr:gun]]
[[ko:gun]]
[[hy:gun]]
[[io:gun]]
[[it:gun]]
[[kk:gun]]
[[ku:gun]]
[[lo:gun]]
[[hu:gun]]
[[ml:gun]]
[[nl:gun]]
[[pl:gun]]
[[ru:gun]]
[[simple:gun]]
[[fi:gun]]
[[sv:gun]]
[[ta:gun]]
[[te:gun]]
[[th:gun]]
[[vi:gun]]
[[tr:gun]]
[[vo:gun]]
[[zh:gun]]