{{sources|date=September 2007}}
{{Wikify|date=September 2007}}
A '''gunner''' is a term used to describe an overly competitive student and is commonly used in [[medical school]]. Calling someone a gunner is usually highly offensive (implying they would step over their own mother for a spot higher in class rank).

A gunner is also overly ambitious and often excitedly volunteers oral answers in class that are, by turns, incorrect, off-topic, or specifically designed to demonstrate the questionable "intellectual" prowess of the person supplying them. These questions are often prefaced with phrases like "A cursory literature search revealed . . . " A gunner will compromise his or her peer relationships in order to obtain recognition and praise from his or her instructors and superiors, often by directly harming or attempting to harm the academic well-being of said peers. <ref>http://politedissent.com/archives/113</ref><br>

In rare cases, it has been documented where gunners will appropriate reference materials before an exam, thus precluding others from using them. This sort of predatory gunner is thankfully rare, possibly due to the severe repercussions such behavior can elicit.

This term can also be synonymously used with the word "'''ninja'''". {{Fact|date=September 2007}}
A '''Ninja''' is a gunner who takes great pains to camouflage himself or herself as a normal, socializing student. When their peers least expect it, the Ninja will produce a shuriken of hidden academic competition into their backs.

There is a fast growing movement to replace the term "gunner" with "Ninja". {{Fact|date=September 2007}}