{{also|入|ㅅ}}
==Translingual==
{{stroke order|type=animate}}
{{stroke order}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[亻]] {{qualifier|when used as a left radical}}

===Etymology===
{{liushu|p}} – resembles the legs of a human being.  The ancient version of this character depicted a man with arms and legs. Compare [[大]].

{{Han etyl}}

===Han character===
{{Han char|rn=9|rad=人|as=00|sn=2|four=8000<sub>0</sub>|canj=人 (O)}}

# [[person]]
# [[people]]
# [[humanity]]
# [[someone]] [[else]]

====Usage notes====
In print, 人 may have symmetric legs. However in handwriting, to distinguish from [[入]], the right leg will be shorter, the shape looking like a [[ʎ]]; in 入 the left leg is shorter.

====Derived characters====
* [[Index:Chinese radical/人]]
* [[飤]]

====References====
* {{Han ref|kx=0091.010|dkj=00344|dj=0190.010|hdz=10101.100|uh=4EBA|ud=20154|bh=A448|bd=42056}}

----

==Cantonese==

===Hanzi===
{{yue-hanzi|jyut=|y=[[yan4]]}}

# {{defn|lang=yue|sort=人00}}

----

==Hakka==

===Hanzi===
{{hak-hanzi|poj=[[ngìn]] (nyin5)|gd=ngin<sup>2</sup> [Meixian, Hailu]|hpy=ngin1, ngin2}}

# {{defn|lang=hak|sort=人00}}

====References====
* [http://www.chineselanguage.org/dictionaries/?mode=view&module=chardict&query=%E4%BA%BA CCDICT (Chineselanguage.org)]
* [http://minhakka.ling.sinica.edu.tw/bkg/hakyin/search.php?DETAIL=1&LIMIT=id=28583&dbname=su_tian_1&graph=2 Academia Sinica - Hakka-English Dictionary]
* Lau, Chun-fat. ''Hakka Pinyin Dictionary'' (Chinese). [[Hong Kong]]: [[w:Chinese University of Hong Kong|The Chinese University Press]], 1997 <small>(Chinese IME supplement)</small> ISBN 962-201-750-9.

----

==Japanese==

===Kanji===
{{ja-kanji|grade=1|rs=人00}}

# {{defn|lang=ja|sort=人00}}

====Readings====
{{ja-readings
|goon=[[にん]] (nin)
|kanon=[[じん]] (jin)
|kun=[[ひと]] (hito), [[り]] (ri)
|nanori=[[じ]] (ji), [[と]] (to), [[ね]] (ne), [[ひこ]] (hiko), [[ふみ]] (fumi)
}}

====Compounds====
{{der-top4|Compounds}}
* {{l|ja|人影|tr=[[じんえい]], ''[[jin'ei]]''; [[ひとかげ]], ''[[hitokage]]''}}: the [[figure]] or [[shadow]] of a [[person]]
* [[閑人]]/[[暇人]] ([[ひまじん]], [[himajin]])
* [[人人]] ([[ひとびと]], [[hitobito]])
* [[人為的]] ([[じんいてき]], [[jin'iteki]])
* [[人格]] ([[じんかく]], [[jinkaku]])
* [[人語]] ([[じんご]], [[jingo]])
* [[人後]] ([[じんご]], [[jingo]])
* [[人権]] ([[じんけん]], [[jinken]])
* [[人工]] ([[じんこう]], [[jinkō]])
* [[人口]] ([[じんこう]], [[jinkō]])
* [[人材]] ([[じんざい]], [[jinzai]])
* [[人事]] ([[じんじ]], [[jinji]])
* [[人種]] ([[じんしゅ]], [[jinshu]])
* [[人心]] ([[じんしん]], [[jinshin]])
* [[人身]] ([[じんしん]], [[jinshin]])
* [[人生]] ([[じんせい]], [[jinsei]])
* [[人選]] ([[じんせん]], [[jinsen]])
* [[人体]] ([[じんたい]], [[jintai]])
* [[人道]] ([[じんどう]], [[jindō]])
* [[人徳]] ([[じんとく]], [[jintoku]])
* [[人物]] ([[じんぶつ]], [[jinbutsu]])
* [[人望]] ([[じんぼう]], [[jinbō]])
* [[人名]] ([[じんめい]], [[jinmei]])
* [[人命]] ([[じんめい]], [[jinmei]])
{{der-mid4}}
* [[人類]] ([[じんるい]], [[jinrui]])
* [[人気]] ([[にんき]], [[ninki]]; [[ひとけ]], [[hitoke]])
* [[人間]] ([[にんげん]], [[ningen]]; [[じんかん]], [[jinkan]])
* [[人魚]] ([[にんぎょ]], [[ningyo]])
* [[人形]] ([[にんぎょう]], [[ningyō]]): a [[doll]]
* [[人称]] ([[人稱]], [[にんしょう]], [[ninshō]])
* [[人数]] ([[にんずう]], [[ninzū]])
* [[人相]] ([[にんそう]], [[ninsō]])
* [[人垣]] ([[ひとがき]], [[hitogaki]])
* [[人柄]] ([[ひとがら]], [[hitogara]])
* [[人質]] ([[ひとじち]], [[hitojichi]])
* [[人魂]] ([[ひとだま]], [[hitodama]])
* [[人手]] ([[ひとで]], [[hitode]])
* [[人出]] ([[ひとで]], [[hitode]])
* [[人前]] ([[ひとまえ]], [[hitomae]]; [[にんまえ]], [[ninmae]])
* [[人並]] ([[ひとなみ]], [[hitonami]])
* [[人波]] ([[ひとなみ]], [[hitonami]])
* [[悪人]] ([[あくにん]], [[akunin]])
* [[偉人]] ([[いじん]], [[ijin]])
* [[異人]] ([[いじん]], [[ijin]])
* [[歌人]] ([[かじん]], [[kajin]])
* [[家人]] ([[かじん]], [[kajin]])
{{der-mid4}}
* [[佳人]] ([[かじん]], [[kajin]])
* [[華人]] ([[かじん]], [[kajin]])
* [[外人]] ([[がいじん]], [[gaijin]])
* [[官人]] ([[かんじん]], [[kanjin]]; [[かんにん]], [[kan'nin]]; [[つかさびと]], [[tsukasabito]])
* [[漢人]] ([[かんじん]], [[kanjin]])
* [[閑人]] ([[ひまじん]], [[himajin]])
* [[客人]] ([[きゃくじん]], [[kyakujin]])
* [[求人]] ([[きゅうじん]], [[kyūjin]])
* [[旧人]] ([[きゅうじん]], [[kyūjin]])
* [[狂人]] ([[きょうじん]], [[kyōjin]])
* [[吾人]] ([[ごじん]], [[gojin]])
* [[後人]] ([[こうじん]], [[kōjin]])
* [[公人]] ([[こうじん]], [[kōjin]])
* [[工人]] ([[こうじん]], [[kōjin]])
* [[詩人]] ([[しじん]], [[shijin]])
* [[私人]] ([[しじん]], [[shijin]])
* [[証人]] ([[しょうにん]], [[shōnin]])
* [[商人]] ([[しょうにん]], [[shōnin]])
* [[新人]] ([[しんじん]], [[shinjin]])
* [[成人]] ([[せいじん]], [[seijin]])
* [[聖人]] ([[せいじん]], [[seijin]])
{{der-mid4}}
* [[星人]] ([[せいじん]], [[seijin]])
* [[前人]] ([[ぜんじん]], [[zenjin]])
* [[善人]] ([[ぜんにん]], [[zennin]])
* [[達人]] ([[たつじん]], [[tatsujin]])
* [[旅人]] ([[たびびと]], [[tabibito]]; [[たびにん]], [[tabinin]]; [[りょじん]], [[ryojin]])
* [[党人]] ([[とうじん]], [[tōjin]])
* [[唐人]] ([[とうじん]], [[tōjin]])
* [[俳人]] ([[はいじん]], [[haijin]])
* [[廃人]] ([[はいじん]], [[haijin]])
* [[非人]] ([[ひにん]], [[hinin]])
* [[魔人]] ([[まじん]], [[majin]])
* [[無人]] ([[ぶじん]], [[bujin]]; [[ぶにん]], [[bunin]]; [[むじん]], [[mujin]]; [[むにん]], [[munin]])
* {{l|ja|軍人|tr=[[ぐんじん]], ''[[gunjin]]''}}: [[serviceman]], [[member]] of the [[military]]
* [[老人]] ([[ろうじん]], [[rōjin]])
* [[大人]] ([[おとな]], [[otona]] adult)
* [[代理人]] ([[だいりにん]], [[dairinin]])
* [[一人]] ([[ひとり]], [[hitori]])
* [[二人]] ([[ふたり]], [[futari]])
* [[三人]] ([[さんにん]], [[sannin]])
* [[隼人]] ([[はやひと]], [[hayahito]]; [[はやと]], [[hayato]])
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ojp|ja|sort=ひと}}.

/hi<sub>1</sub>to<sub>2</sub>/: *pitə > ɸito > çito

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|lang=ja|/hito/|[çito̞]}}

====Noun====
{{ja-noun|k|count=人|hira=ひと|rom=hito}}

# [[person]]
# [[human]]
# [[someone]] [[else]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|ja|弟|tr=[[おとうと]], ''[[otōto]]''}}: younger [[brother]]
* {{l|ja|妹|tr=[[いもうと]], ''[[imōto]]''}}: younger [[sister]]
* {{l|ja|舅|tr=[[しゅうと]], ''[[shūto]]''}}: [[father-in-law]]
* {{l|ja|姑|tr=[[しゅうと]], ''[[shūto]]''}}: [[mother-in-law]]
* {{l|ja|素人|tr=[[しろうと]], ''[[shirōto]]''}}: an [[amateur]], a [[novice]]
* {{l|ja|玄人|tr=[[くろうと]], ''[[kurōto]]''}}: [[expert]], [[professional]]
* {{l|ja|真人|tr=[[まひと]], ''[[mahito]]''; [[まとうど]], ''[[matōdo]]''; [[もうと]], ''[[mōto]]''}}: a [[clan]] in ancient Japan; a [[noble]]; someone who is very [[honest]] and [[straightforward]]
* {{l|ja|首|tr=[[おびと]], ''[[obito]]''}}: a [[chief]] or [[boss]]; a [[clan]] in ancient Japan
* {{l|ja|客人|tr=[[まろうど]], ''[[marōdo]]''}}: a [[visitor]], a [[guest]]
* {{l|ja|商人|tr=[[あきゅうど]], ''[[akyūdo]]''; [[あきんど]], ''[[akindo]]''}}: [[trader]], [[shopkeeper]], [[merchant]]
* {{l|ja|仲人|tr=[[なこうど]], ''[[nakōdo]]''}}: [[go-between]], [[matchmaker]]
* {{l|ja|囚人|tr=[[めしゅうど]], ''[[meshūdo]]''}}: [[prisoner]]
{{bottom}}

=====Synonyms=====
* [[方]] ([[かた]]) {{qualifier|honorific}}

=====Compounds=====
* [[人の世]] (hito no yo)

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|ltc|ja|sort=にん}} {{term|sc=Hani|人}}.

====Pronunciation====
* [[音読み|On'yomi]]: [[呉音|''goon'']]
* {{IPA|lang=ja|[nĩɴ]}}

====Counter====
{{ja-pos|k|counter|rom=-nin|hira=にん}}

# [[people]]

=====Usage notes=====
The above reading is used when counting three people or more.  When counting one or two people, namely {{term|lang=ja|一人|tr=hitori||one person}} or {{term|lang=ja|二人|tr=futari||two people}}, the reading is {{term|lang=ja|り|tr=-ri}}.

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|ltc|ja|sort=しん'}} {{term|sc=Hani|人}}.  Later borrowing than ''nin''.

====Pronunciation====
* [[音読み|On'yomi]]: [[漢音|kan'on]]
* {{IPA|lang=ja|[d͡ʑĩɴ]}}

====Suffix====
{{ja-pos|k|suffix|rom=-jin|hira=じん|hidx=しん'}}

# [[person]] from that group; [[-ian]]
# person who does the activity of the suffixed word

[[Category:1000 Japanese basic words|ひと]]
[[Category:Japanese terms spelled with 人]]
[[Category:Japanese terms written with one Han script character]]

----

==Korean==

===Hanja===
{{ko-hanja|hangeul=인|rv=in|mr=in|y=in|eumhun=사람|ehrv=saram|ehmr=saram|ehy=salam}}

# {{defn|lang=ko|sort=人00}}

====Compounds====
{{top2}}
* [[中國人]]
* [[人口]] ([[인구]], in-gu)
* [[人類]] ([[인류]], inryu)
{{mid2}}
* [[日本人]] ([[일본인]], ilbon-in)
* [[罪人]] ([[죄인]], joein)
* [[主人公]] ([[주인공]], juin-gong)
{{bottom}}

----

==Mandarin==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Zh-rén.ogg|audio (China)}}
* {{audio|Zh-ren2.ogg|audio (Russia)}}

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|ts|pin=rén|pint=ren2|rs=人00}}

# [[man]], [[person]], [[people]]
#* [http://wordproject.org/multi/bi_en_cn_py.htm John 1.4]
#*: 生命在他里头。这生命就是'''人'''的光。
#*: shēngmìng zaì tā lǐtou. Zhè shēngmìng jiùshì '''rén''' de guāng.
#*:: In him was life; and the life was the light of '''men'''.

===Hanzi===
{{cmn-hanzi|pin=[[rén]] ([[ren2]])|wg=[[jen2|jen<sup>2</sup>]]}}

====Compounds====
{{top2}}
* [[人本主义]]
* [[人不像人，鬼不像鬼]]
* [[人不知，鬼不觉]] ([[人不知，鬼不覺]])
* [[人才]], [[人材]]
* [[人才市场]]
* [[人财两空]]
* [[人潮]]
* [[人称]]
* [[人次]]
* [[人丛]]
* [[人大]]
* [[人道]]
* [[人道主義|人道主义]]
* [[人地两生]]
* [[人地生疏]]
* [[人丁]]
* [[人定勝天|人定胜天]]
* [[人堆儿]]
* [[人多势众]]
* [[人多手杂]]
* [[人多嘴雜|人多嘴杂]]
* [[人而无信，不知其可]] ([[人而無信，不知其可]])
* [[人犯]]
* [[人贩子]]
* [[人防]]
* [[人非圣贤，孰能无过]] ([[人非聖賢，孰能無過]])
* [[人份]]
* [[人逢喜事精神爽]]
* [[人浮于事]]
* [[人高马大]] ([[人高馬大]])
* [[人格]]
* [[人格化]]
* [[人格权]]
* [[人工]]
* [[人工呼吸]]
* [[人海]]
* [[人和]]
* [[人话]]
* [[人欢马叫]]
* [[人寰]]
* [[人祸]]
* [[人给家足]]
* [[人际]]
* [[人迹]]
* [[人家]]
* [[人尖子]]
* [[人间]]
* [[人间天上]] ([[人間天上]])
* [[人杰]]
* [[人杰地灵]]
* [[人尽其才]]
* [[人精]]
* [[人均]]
* [[人口]]
* [[人類]], [[人类]]
* [[人类基因]]
* [[人马]]
* [[人马座]]
* [[人们]]
* [[人面桃花]]
* [[人民]]
* [[人民币]]
* [[人情]]
* [[人权]]
* [[人儿]]
{{mid2}}
* [[人人]]
* [[人日]]
* [[人山人海]]
* [[人上人]]
* [[人身]]
* [[人参]]
* [[人生]]
* [[人生何处不相逢]] ([[人生何處不相逢]])
* [[人师]]
* [[人士]]
* [[人氏]]
* [[人世]]
* [[人事]]
* [[人手]]
* [[人寿保险]]
* [[人算不如天算]]
* [[人头]]
* [[人外有人，天外有天]]
* [[人微言轻]]
* [[人为]]
* [[人文]]
* [[人无千日好，花无百日红]] ([[人無千日好，花無百日紅]])
* [[人无远虑，必有近忧]] ([[人無遠慮，必有近憂]])
* [[人像]]
* [[人心隔肚皮]]
* [[人心叵测]]
* [[人行道]]
* [[人性]]
* [[人烟]]
* [[人仰马翻]]
* [[人样]], [[人样儿]]
* [[人员]]
* [[人缘儿]]
* [[人猿]]
* [[人造]]
* [[人质]]
* [[人中]]
* [[人种]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Mandarin entries with audio links]]

----

==Middle Chinese==

===Han character===
'''人''' (*njin)<!--note: asterisk indicates that this character appears more than four times in the Tang Dynasty corpus of literature-->

# {{defn|lang=ltc|sort=人00}}

----

==Min Nan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|vernacular}} {{IPA|[ laŋ˧˥ ]|lang=nan}} lâng
* {{a|literary|Quanzhou}} {{IPA|[ lɪn˧˥ ]|lang=nan}} lîn
* {{a|literary|Zhangzhou}} {{IPA|[ ʑɪn˧˥ ]|lang=nan}} jîn

===Noun===
{{nan-noun|ts|poj=lâng|pojt=lang5|rs=人00}}

# [[person]]; [[people]]

===Noun===
{{nan-noun|ts|poj=[[jîn]] or [[lîn]]|pojt=jin5|rs=人00}}

# [[person]]; [[people]]

===Usage notes===
* When by itself, [[人]] is always read as '''lâng'''.  For compound words, Min Nan resembles Japanese, in that there does not seem to be a consistent rule for when to use the vernacular vs. literary pronunciation.  Certain compounds will always use the vernacular (ex. [[siàu-liân-lâng|siàu-liân-'''lâng''']] ''young person''), whereas others will always use the literary pronunciation (ex. [[Hàn-jîn|Hàn-'''jîn''']] ({{zh-ts|漢人|汉人}}) ''ethnic [[w:Han Chinese|Han Chinese]]'').

===Alternative forms===
* {{zh-ts|儂|侬}} (for '''lâng''' only)

----

==Vietnamese==

===Han character===
{{vi-hantu|[[nhân]], [[nhơn]]|rs=人00}}

# {{defn|lang=vi|sort=人00}}

====References====
* [http://nomfoundation.org/common/nom_details.php?codepoint=4eba Nom Foundation]

----

==Wu==
{{attention|wuu}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|vernacular|Quzhou}} {{IPA|[ ɲiɲ ]|lang=wuu}} nin
* {{a|vernacular|Shanghai}} {{IPA|[ ɲɪɲ ]|lang=wuu}} nhin/gnin
* {{a|literary|Quzhou}} {{IPA|[ ʒən ]|lang=wuu}} zhen
* {{a|literary|Shanghai}} {{IPA|[ zən ]|lang=wuu}} zen

===Noun===
{{head|wuu|noun|sc=Hani}}

# [[person]]; [[people]]

====Usage notes====
* When by itself, [[人]] is always read as '''[ɲɪɲ]'''.  For compound words, Wu resembles Japanese, in that there does not seem to be a consistent rule for when to use the vernacular vs. literary pronunciation.

====Compounds====
* [[人家]] (colloquial)
* [[人民]] (literary)
* [[人民币]]/[[人民幣]](literary)
* [[人口]] (colloquial)
* [[大人]] (colloquial/literary)

[[Category:CJKV radicals]]

[[af:人]]
[[zh-min-nan:人]]
[[be:人]]
[[cs:人]]
[[da:人]]
[[de:人]]
[[el:人]]
[[es:人]]
[[fr:人]]
[[ko:人]]
[[io:人]]
[[id:人]]
[[it:人]]
[[kn:人]]
[[lo:人]]
[[la:人]]
[[lt:人]]
[[li:人]]
[[hu:人]]
[[mg:人]]
[[ms:人]]
[[fj:人]]
[[nl:人]]
[[ja:人]]
[[no:人]]
[[uz:人]]
[[km:人]]
[[pl:人]]
[[pt:人]]
[[ru:人]]
[[sm:人]]
[[fi:人]]
[[sv:人]]
[[tl:人]]
[[ta:人]]
[[th:人]]
[[chr:人]]
[[tr:人]]
[[uk:人]]
[[vi:人]]
[[zh:人]]