{{also|Nadir}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2006|September|23}}
{{slim-wikipedia|Nadir (disambiguation)}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ML.}} {{term|nadir|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|ar}} {{term|sc=Arab|نظير اسمت|نَظِيرُ السَّمْت|tr=naẓīru as-samt}}, composed of {{term|sc=Arab|سمت|السَمْتُ|tr=as-samt|the zenith}} and
{{term|sc=Arab|نظير|نَظِير|tr=naẓīr|counterpart, corresponding to}}.

The understanding for the educated amongst the devout is in the rendering of the "nadir" characters according to the recorded stories or hierogplyphs or characters of that region. Guarded tribes have developed guarded, or double-context, abilities to communicate in almost every language within a region. 
In the Heiroglyphic, or picture character, designed to be understood by a person who doesn't educate himself to the Supreme Being, a text can carry a "blessing" or a "satanic" curse.(The picto-glyph can be also translated against the errant devout as "the zenith" = arse shut! and "corresponding to" = Nasty nigh! Nein! Nix! No! [areas around the native country]) The picto-glyph of the full rendering of the "satanic" nadir is "stupid slav! You are made of dung flesh! Empty-headed man like an animal! You are a man on his back and you look stupid! (Great anger against the errant devout is pointedly rendered here.) The picto-glyphs are easily recognized as facially identifiable to allow justice for those who betray Education, however, the Presence of The Supreme Being must also be alluded to which contributes to His Great Anger.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈneɪdɪə(ɹ)/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"neIdI@(r\)/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈneɪdɪɹ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"neIdIr\/}}
* {{audio|en-us-nadir.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The point of the [[celestial sphere]], directly opposite the [[zenith]]; inferior pole of the horizon; point of the celestial sphere directly under the place where we stand.
#* '''1638''', Sir Thomas Herbert, ''Some years travels into divers parts of Asia and Afrique'':
#*: {{...}} when we are '''Nadyr''' to the Sunne, we have no ſhadow {{...}}
# {{figuratively}} The lowest point; time of greatest depression.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Henry Hallam|Henry Hallam]]:
#*: The seventh century is the '''nadir''' of the human mind in Europe.
#* '''1950''', Elizabeth Janeway, in Helen Hull (editor), ''The Writer’s Book'':
#*: In this '''nadir''' of poetic repute, when the only verse that most people read from one year’s end to the next is what appears on greetings cards, it is well for us to stop and consider our poets.
# {{astronomy}} The axis of a projected conical shadow; the direction of the force of gravity at a location; [[down]].
#: ''The '''nadir''' of the sun is the axis of the shadow projected by the Earth.''
# {{beekeeping|archaic}} An empty box added beneath a full one in a [[beehive]] to give the colony more room to expand or store honey.

====References====
* '''1860''', Henry Taylor, ''The Beekeepers Manual'', page 24.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|lowest point}} [[lowest ebb]], [[slough of despond]], [[trough]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|point of heavens opposite the zenith}} [[zenith]]
* {{sense|lowest point}} [[height]], [[peak]]
* {{sense|beekeeping}} [[duplet]], [[super]]

====Related terms====
* [[azimuth]], [[zenith]] - (both from {{term|سمت|السَمْتُ|tr=as-samt|sc=Arab}}).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|point of the sky}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նադիր|tr=nadir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|天底|tr=tiāndǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nadir|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nadiiri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|nadir|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Nadir|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|nadir|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|天底|tr=てんてい, tentei|sc=Jpan}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|nadir}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nadir|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|nadir|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|надир|m|tr=nadír}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|nadir|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|figuratively the lowest point}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aallonpohja}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|mélypont}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|どん底|tr=どんぞこ, donzoko|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|nadir|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|низший уровень|m|tr=nízšij úroven'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|axis of projected conical shadow}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Darin#English|Darin]], [[dinar#English|dinar]], [[drain#English|drain]], [[Drina#English|Drina]], [[Indra#English|Indra]], [[Ndari#English|Ndari]], [[ranid#English|ranid]]

----

==French==
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

===Etymology===
As for the English word.

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{astronomy|lang=fr}} [[#English|nadir]]

====Antonyms====
* [[zénith]]

===Anagrams===
* [[radin#French|radin]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
As for the English word.

===Pronunciation===
nadìr, /naˈdir/, /<tt>na"dir</tt>/

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m}}

# {{astronomy|lang=it}} [[#English|nadir]]

====Antonyms====
* [[zenit]]

===Anagrams===
* [[nardi#Italian|nardi]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
* From Arabic.

===Adjective===
{{tr-adj}}

# [[rare]]

====Synonyms====
* [[ender]]

[[ar:nadir]]
[[et:nadir]]
[[el:nadir]]
[[eo:nadir]]
[[fr:nadir]]
[[gl:nadir]]
[[ko:nadir]]
[[io:nadir]]
[[id:nadir]]
[[kn:nadir]]
[[ku:nadir]]
[[mg:nadir]]
[[ml:nadir]]
[[my:nadir]]
[[nl:nadir]]
[[pl:nadir]]
[[pt:nadir]]
[[ru:nadir]]
[[fi:nadir]]
[[sv:nadir]]
[[ta:nadir]]
[[te:nadir]]
[[th:nadir]]
[[tr:nadir]]
[[vi:nadir]]
[[zh:nadir]]