{{also|Naff}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{rfc|This etymology needs lots of references}}
Of uncertain origin.
* Collins suggests a possible 19th century origin from [[back slang]] of ''fan'', [[fanny]].
* AHD suggests a possible dialectal origin but goes no further.
* Wiktionary contributors suggest it is derived from the [[Polari]] word ''[[naph]]'', and <!--no doubt was -->popularised and hence changed its spelling due to being used on the BBC radio programme <i>Round the Horne</i> by Julian and Sandy in the 1960s.
* OED has no evidence before 1966 and mentions the Polari theory and others without going so far as to accept any of them without further evidence.
* Cassell's Dictionary of Slang refers to it being confused. Its etymology is confused with '''N'''ot '''A'''vailable '''F'''or '''F'''ucking in gay speak (not Polari), an unavailable man. However it is unlikely the word held both these meanings at once by the same group of people. See [http://books.google.com/books?id=5GpLcC4a5fAC&pg=PA986&dq=naph+polari&lr=lang_en&as_brr=0&ei=bDSTSNb0ApzOswP7p-D7DA&sig=ACfU3U0vYA2AjjAA27jWyPA5OIHthNsF2A ''Cassel's Dictionary of Slang'' entry]
* The BBC show Balderdash and Piffle disagrees with Cassell's.
* Encarta merely state the etymology is unknown.
* Merriam-Webster and Etymology Online offer no information.
* An elderly former UK merchant seaman told me in 1982, that the word 'naff' derived from the acronym 'Not Available For Fun'. And that this had been the term used to warn new members of a boat's crew off the (straight) sailors who should not be approached for sex. At that time in the late 40's, 50's, 60's (and probably earlier) the Merchant Navy was quite the refuge for working class gay men in Britain--this old boy suggested that it was between 30% and 50% of every merchant ship's crew he was ever a part of. Homosexuality was tolerated in the merchant navy but aggressively suppressed in the Royal Navy, at least among junior ranks. It is easy to see how this meaning of 'naff' morphed into its current one, and how usage spread from gay merchant seamen to the wider gay community and thence into wider society. As to the change in meaning: think 'Queer Eye for the Straight Guy' on TV today--it was even more the case back then. Something 'naff' came came also to be a description of something unfashionable that a straight man might wear; then broadened further from 'unfashionable' to include 'tasteless' and from clothing to other objects/ behaviour etc.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|æf}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# {{context|UK|_|slang}} Considered to be poor taste.
#: ''That tie is a bit '''naff''', don’t you think?''
# {{context|Polari}} [[bad|Bad]]; [[tasteless]].
# {{context|UK|_|slang}} Something that is poorly thought out, doesn’t really work, or is otherwise not very good.
#: ''That’s a really naff example.''
# {{context|Polari}} [[Heterosexual]].

====Derived terms====
* [[naff all]]
* [[naff off]] (a euphemism for fuck off).

===See also===
* BBC [[w:Wordhunt|Wordhunt]]

[[Category:Unknown etymology]]

[[pl:naff]]
[[fi:naff]]
[[vi:naff]]