==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/næ/|/nɑ/}}, {{SAMPA|/n{/|/nA/}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{informal}} [[no]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|no}}
* French: {{t+|fr|nan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|ne}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ahn#English|ahn]], [[Han#English|Han]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/naː/|lang=de}}
* {{audio|De-nah.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|goh|de}} {{term|nah|nāh|lang=goh}}.

===Adjective===
{{infl|de|adjective}}

# [[near]] (in space or time or in an abstract sense)

====Antonyms====
* [[fern]]

===Adverb===
{{de-adv}}

# [[near]] (in space or time or in an abstract sense)

====Synonyms====
* [[nahe]]

====Antonyms====
* [[weit]]
* [[fern]] 

----

==Indonesian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nāh/|lang=id}}

===Conjunction===

====nah====
Note: ''Nah'' is used in a narrative or an argument. It appears at the beginning of a sentence and suggests that the previous part of the narrative or argument is complete and clear and that you are now about to move on to to the next part or next step. The following are the closest equivalents in English. 

# "Now" or "Okay, now..."
#: ''Nah, itu yang tidak bisa kita ketahui''
#:* Now, that's what we haven't been able to find out.
#: ''Lalu saya dipecat dengan tidak hormat. Nah, ini yang minimbulkan perasaan bahwa itu keterlaluan.''
#:* Then I was given a dishonourable dismissal. Now, this is what made me feel that they had over-stepped the mark.

===Exclamation===

# I told you so! See?! (at long last the penny's dropped).
#: ''Nah! Makanya jangan makan buah banyak-banyak (a mother scolds a child who has a stomach ache)''
#:* See?! That's why you shouldn't eat a lot of fruit. 





----

==Old High German==

===Etymology 1===
From {{proto|Germanic|nēhw|lang=goh}}.  Cognates include Old English {{term|neh|nēh|lang=ang}}, {{term|neah|nēah|lang=ang}} and Old Norse {{term|ná|lang=non}}.

====Adjective====
{{infl|goh|adjective|head=nāh}}

# [[close]]
# [[near]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{proto|Germanic|nēhwiz|lang=goh}}.

====Preposition====
{{infl|goh|preposition|head=nāh|takes dative}}

# [[towards]]

[[br:nah]]
[[de:nah]]
[[es:nah]]
[[fr:nah]]
[[ko:nah]]
[[hu:nah]]
[[ja:nah]]
[[pl:nah]]
[[fi:nah]]
[[sv:nah]]
[[tr:nah]]
[[zh:nah]]