==English==

===Noun===
'''nanofibers'''

The Department of Nonwovens and Nanofibrous Materials was established at the College of Mechanical and Textile Engineering (today Technical University of Liberec - TUL) at 1968, as the first department of this scope in Czechoslovakia by professor Radko Krčma. He was not only Czechoslovakian but worldwide founder of Nonwovens' branch.  His successor was professor Oldřich Jirsák. They together developed perpendicularly laid nonwovens under trade mark Struto.

In year 2003, professor Jirsák and his collaborators from the Department of Nonwovens filed patent relating to continuous production of electrospun nanofibers. The department established co-operation with company Elmarco Ltd. Together they developed unique machine for continuous production of nanofibers with trade-mark Nanospider. Over the last years, research connected with production and application of electrospun nanofibers at the department has been leaded by professor David Lukáš and professor Oldřich Jirsák. 

The department provides courses oriented towards: Theory of Nonwovens, Mechanical Technologies of Nonwovens, Chemical and Thermal Technologies of Nonwovens, Textile Waste Processing, Technical Textiles, Textile Nanomaterials, Medical Textiles, Materials for Tissue Engineering, Polymer Chemistry etc. 

Besides the electrospinning technology, main research and scientific activities of the department are focused on: Melt-blown technology, interactions between fiber assemblies and liquid phase (filtration, sorption, liquid penetration) including computer simulation based on Auto models and Cellular Automata method, synthesis of carbon nanomaterials onto special substrates,  production of nanofibers by Drawing technology and forcespinning, production, testing and development of scaffolds for tissue engineering. 

# {{plural of|nanofiber}}

===Anagrams===
* [[nanofibres#English|nanofibres]]

[[ar:nanofibers]]
[[fr:nanofibers]]
[[ku:nanofibers]]
[[my:nanofibers]]