==English==

===Etymology===
[[World War I]] British and [[ANZAC]] army slang, probably a corruption of {{etyl|fr|en}} “''il n′y a plus''” (“there is no more”).

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|UK|army|slang|lang=en}} [[finished|Finished]]; gone; non-existent.
#* '''1918''' April, 'R', ''An elegy on my dugout, when it was done in'', published in ''Four Whistles'' by D Company of the Scottish Officer Cadet Battalion, quoted in '''2013''' by Graham Seal in ''The Soldiers' Press: Trench Journals in the First World War'' (ISBN 1137303263):
#* What shall I do? / My poor old dug-out is '''napoo'''.
#* '''1920''', ''Punch'', Volume 158, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=rAkIAQAAIAAJ&q=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=vi66T8T9Ic6fiQf08OjsCA&redir_esc=y page 185],
#*: “ ‘Very well,’ says I, ‘San fairy ann. '''Napoo''' washing — '''napoo''' ball.’
#*: “ That set ′em to work. Next day little boys were scraping the village over like fowls in a farmyard, getting a chip ′ere an′ a shaving there, an′ making themselves such a nuisance{{...}}.
#* '''1964''', [[w:Pierre Van Paassen|Pierre Van Paassen]], ''To Number Our Days'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=1UsyAQAAIAAJ&q=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=O0e6T9TvE8euiQeoxPz0CA&redir_esc=y page 159],
#*: The war was '''''napoo''''',* ''fini'', and the Rhine the end of the journey.
# {{context|UK|army|slang|lang=en}} [[dead|Dead]].
#* '''1918''', [[w:Hereward Carrington|Hereward Carrington]], ''Psychical Phenomena and the War'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=INcEvoButTAC&pg=PA69&dq=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=vi66T8T9Ic6fiQf08OjsCA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22napoo%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 69],
#*: “‘Hey, Bill, where′s Charles?’
#*: “‘'''Napoo'''.’
#*: “‘What?’
#*: “‘Yes. He was out on a listening post and lit a cigarette. Sniper got him.’

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|UK|army|slang|lang=en}} The end; enough, 
#: ''Soon it must be '''napoo''' for me.'' — ''Phrase used to signify the end of something.''

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|UK|army|slang|lang=en}} To finish; to put an end to; to kill.
#: ''He will '''napoo''' the rations.''
#* '''1918''', [[w:Roland Pertwee|Roland Pertwee]], ''The Little Landscape'', ''Everybody′s Magazine'', Volume 38, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=PW9IAAAAYAAJ&pg=RA1-PA35&dq=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=6E-6T9X9H8nYigeR9PSNCQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 35],
#*: “The general says that if you are wise you will leave before the cannons come. Otherwise you′ll get ‘'''napooed''',’ ” and he made an expressive gesture. “''Compris?''” 
#* '''1918''', [[w:Hereward Carrington|Hereward Carrington]], ''Psychical Phenomena and the War'', [page 68],
#*: I thought a man was lucky if he did not get '''napooed''' first trip in.
#* '''1984''', [[w:John Masters|John Masters]], ''Man of War'', 1984, US title ''High Command'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=FI0ZAAAAIAAJ&q=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=6E-6T9X9H8nYigeR9PSNCQ&redir_esc=y page 230],
#*: “No,” Merton said shortly. “We sit tight, they find us. If we both go wandering about looking for each other in the middle of the night, we′ll start a battle and the whole plan for tomorrow will be '''napooed'''.”
#* '''1988''', Sidney Rogerson, ''Twelve days'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=fzFnAAAAMAAJ&q=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22napoos|napooed|napooing%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=6E-6T9X9H8nYigeR9PSNCQ&redir_esc=y page 19],
#*: German planes had not only carried out a raid behind our lines, but a long-range shell had actually hit one of the Battalion cookers and “'''napooed'''” it completely.

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{context|UK|army|slang|lang=en}} There is no more.
#* '''1939''', [[w:Ruthven Todd|Ruthven Todd]], ''Over the Mountain'', 1978 reprint, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=jRygUdAEiYgC&pg=PA216&dq=%22napoo%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=_ku6T-3MCbG6iAfCptSFCQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22napoo%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 216],
#*: “{{...}}Finish! '''Napoo'''!” and he spread his hands expressively, holding the cup upside down with the cloth hanging out of it, before he went on: “But it hasn't come to that yet.{{...}}”

====Alternative forms====
* [[narpoo]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|there is no more}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|babau}}, {{t|pt|já era}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* [http://www.anu.edu.au/andc/pubs/ozwords/May_2003/war_words.html 'War Words']
* [http://www.askoxford.com/worldofwords/wordfrom/centuryofnewwords/ 'A century of change']

[[vi:napoo]]