==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xno|en}}, {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|navie|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|nāvigia}} < {{m|la|nāvigium}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|nāvigō}}, {{m|la|nāvis||boat}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*néh₂us}}. Compare Ancient Greek {{term|ναῦς||ship|tr=naus|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}, {{etyl|fa|-}} {{term|ناو||boat, warship|sc=fa-Arab|tr=nâv|lang=fa}}, {{etyl|ta|-}} {{term|நாவாய்|lang=ta|sc=Taml|tr=nāvāi}}, {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|nōwend||mariner, sailor}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-navy.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪvi|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|navies}}

# A country's entire sea force, including [[ship]]s and [[personnel]].
# A governmental department in charge of a country's sea force.
# A dark [[blue]] [[color|colour]], usually called '''[[navy blue]]'''.
#: {{color panel|000080}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sea force}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|بحرية|f|tr=baHaríyya}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|marina|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|海軍|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|海军|tr=hǎijūn|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|海軍|sc=Hans}}, {{t|nan|海军|tr=hái-kun|sc=Hans}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|námořnictvo|n}}
* Danish: {{t|da|marine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zeemacht|f}}, {{t+|nl|marine|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|mararmeo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|merevägi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laivasto}}
* French: {{t|fr|force navale|f}}, {{t+|fr|marine|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Marine|f}}, {{t|de|Seestreitkräfte|f-p}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ναυτικό|n|tr=naftikó}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חיל הים|m}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|नौसेना|tr=nausēnā}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|haditengerészet}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|sjóher|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|angkatan laut}}, {{t+|id|marinir}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|marina|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|海軍|tr=かいぐん, kaigun}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|marinne|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|해군|tr=haegun|sc=Hang}} ({{t+|ko|海軍|sc=Hani}})
* Latin: {{t+|la|classis|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|laivynas|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tentera laut}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tauā moana}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|marine|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|نیروی دریایی|tr=niruye-daryayi|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|نیروی دریایی|tr=niruye-daryayi}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|marynarka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|marinha|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|marină|f}}, {{t+|ro|flotă|f}}, {{t|ro|forță navală|f}}, {{t|ro|marină militară|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|военно-морской флот|m|tr=vojénno-morskój flót}}, {{t+|ru|ВМФ|m|tr=ve-em-éf}}, {{t|ru|военно-морские силы|f-p|tr=vojénno-morskíje síly}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t+|gd|cabhlach|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|mornàrica|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|mornarica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marina|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|marin|c}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|నావికాదళం|tr=naavikaadaLam|sc=Telu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|hải quân}} ({{t|vi|海軍|sc=Hani}}) <!-- this is the etymology in brackets, not the current alternative spelling -->
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|פֿלאָט|tr=flot|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|department}}
* Danish: {{t|da|marine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zeemacht|f}}, {{t+|nl|marine|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|mararmeo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laivasto}}
* French: {{t|fr|force navale|f}}, {{t+|fr|marine|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Marineamt|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|haditengerészet}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|angkatan laut}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|海軍|tr=かいぐん, kaigun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|laivynas|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|angkatan laut}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|marine|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|نیروی دریایی|tr=niruye-daryayi|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|marynarka wojenna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|marinha|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|marină|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t+|gd|cabhlach|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|mornàrica|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|navy blue colour}}
* Danish: {{t|da|marineblå}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|marineblauw|n}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|meresinine}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laivastonsininen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bleu marine|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Marineblau}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ネービーブルー|tr=neibīburū|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|biru kelasi}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|marineblå}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|granat|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|azul-marinho|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|синий|tr=sínij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|azul marino|m}}
* {{trreq|uk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|marina|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having the dark blue colour of [[navy blue]].
#* '''2006''', Samantha Hunt, ''The Seas: A Novel'', page 57:
#*: The cover is as '''navy''' as a bruise.
#* '''2006''', Carol Marinelli, ''Taken for His Pleasure'', page 26:
#*: The morning shadow on his chin was almost as '''navy''' as his heavy-lidded eyes, his cheekbones exquisitely sculptured in his haughty face.
# Belonging to the navy; typical of the navy.
#* '''1943''', Fletcher Pratt, ''The Navy has wings'', page 167:
#*: [...] there are chess ships and checker ships and those where acey-deucey is almost the only game, the sailors' own improved version of backgammon. Fliers from the seacoast of Iowa, anxious to be as '''navy''' as the rest, are usually the first to pick it up.
#* '''1993''', Robert A. Frezza, ''McLendon's Syndrome'', page 299:
#*: Lieutenant Lindquist is '''navy''' through and through. I know she doesn't want to get out. Now, I know there's no way you can assign her to a navy ship, but there has to be something the navy can give her to keep her in space.
#* '''1994''', Harry Carey, ''Company of heroes: my life as an actor in the John Ford stock company'', page 76:
#*: It was not what you would picture as a typical meeting with a naval officer. In fact, it was about as '''navy''' as an Abbott and Costello movie.
#* '''2003''', Jedwin Smith, ''Fatal treasure: greed and death, emeralds and gold'', page 88:
#*: He was '''navy''' through and through; no-nonsense, humorless, and all spit and polish—every hair in its place, every thought gleaned from the manual compiled by brilliant sea dogs of long ago.
#* '''2003''', Edwin Palmer Hoyt, Thomas H Moorer, ''The Men of the Gambier Bay: The Amazing True Story'', page 21:
#*: Goodwin was '''navy''' through and through.

====Quotations====
* '''2001''', Lynda Barry, ''Cruddy'', page 21:
*: Possibly she was more '''Navy''' than I was.
* '''2004''', James L. Nelson, ''Glory in the Name: A Novel of the Confederate Navy'', page 100:
*: One glance told him Fairfax was old '''navy''', through and through.
* '''2008''', Don Pendleton, ''The Killing Rule'', page 201:
*: The skipper was Russian '''navy''' through and through. He considered this his duty, and he was prepared to die doing it.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Having a navy colour}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|marineblauw}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|meresinine}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laivastonsininen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bleu marine}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ネービーブルー|alt=ネービーブルーの|tr=neibīburū no|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|biru kelasi}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|marineblå}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|azul-marinho|m|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|bleumarin}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Belonging to the navy}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|zeemacht-}}, {{t|nl|marine-}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|mararmea}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laivasto|alt=laivasto-}}
* French: {{t+|fr|naval}}, {{t+|fr|marin}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ναυτικός|tr=nautikós}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tengerészeti}}
* Latin: {{t|la|classiarus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|angkatan laut}}, {{t|ms|tentera laut}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|marine}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|[[da]] [[marinha]]|m|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|marin}}, {{t+|ro|maritim}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|mornàričkī|sc=Latn}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|నావికా|tr=naavikaa|sc=Telu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun or adjective ''navy''}}
* [[merchant navy]]
* [[naval]]
* [[naval dockyard]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[navy bean]]
* [[navy cut]]
* [[Navy Cross]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[navy yard]]
* [[Royal Navy]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms etymologically related to the noun or adjective ''navy''}}
* [[navicular]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[nonnaval]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{list:blues/en}}
{{top3}}
* [[Annapolis]]
* [[bluejacket]]
* [[captain]]
* [[chief petty officer]]
* [[commodore]]
{{mid3}}
* [[ensign]]
* [[erk]]
* [[Fleet Air Arm]]
* [[gob]]
* [[gunroom]]
{{mid3}}
* [[marine]]
* [[Seabee]]
* [[silent service]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:en:Blues]]

[[az:navy]]
[[zh-min-nan:navy]]
[[ca:navy]]
[[cs:navy]]
[[et:navy]]
[[el:navy]]
[[eo:navy]]
[[fr:navy]]
[[ko:navy]]
[[hy:navy]]
[[io:navy]]
[[id:navy]]
[[it:navy]]
[[kn:navy]]
[[lo:navy]]
[[hu:navy]]
[[ml:navy]]
[[my:navy]]
[[ja:navy]]
[[pl:navy]]
[[ro:navy]]
[[simple:navy]]
[[fi:navy]]
[[ta:navy]]
[[te:navy]]
[[chr:navy]]
[[tr:navy]]
[[vi:navy]]
[[zh:navy]]