{{also|Nb|N.-B.}}
==English==

===Etymology===
* {{qualifier|for nota bene}} taken directly from Latin

==={{initialism}}===
'''NB''' ''or'' '''N.B.'''

# [[nota bene|Nota bene]]; used in written English to introduce something to be noted.
#: ''NB: Do not write below this line.''
# {{Canada}} [[New Brunswick]] {{qualifier|Canadian province}}
# North Bound
# {{US}}{{aviation}} prefix code for [[NASA]] research [[bomber plane]] designations

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Nota bene; used in written English to introduce something to be noted}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pozn.}}
* Finnish: [[HUOM]], [[Huom]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|NB}}, {{t|no|Notabene}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|obs}}, {{t|sv|observera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|New Brunswick}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|North Bound}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|cy}}: [[DS]]
{{trans-bottom}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''NB'''

# [[New Brunswick]], a province of [[Canada]].
# [[West Nusa Tenggara]], a province of [[Indonesia]].

===Anagrams===
* [[bn#English|bn]]

----

==French==

==={{abbreviation|French}}===
; NB

# [[Nouveau-Brunswick]], a province of Canada

====Alternative forms====
* [[N.B.]], [[N. B.]], [[N.-B.]], [[N-B]]

----

==German==

===Abbreviation===
'''NB'''

# {{context|apartment listing|lang=de}} Abbreviation of [[Neubau]]

[[Category:German abbreviations]]

----

==Latin==

===Abbreviation===
'''NB'''

# {{abbreviation of|nota bene|lang=la}}

====Related terms====
* [[notare]]
* [[bene]]
* [[bonus]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Etymology===
An abbreviated, Romanised form of [[牛逼]] ("cow's cunt"), a phrase which was possibly influenced by the expression [[吹牛皮]] (chuī niú pí) which means "to brag".

===Adjective===
{{cmn-adj|p|pint=nb}}

# {{slang|lang=cmn|sc=Hans|skey=nb}} [[fucking]] [[awesome]]
#: [[他]][[小說]][[寫]][[的]][[太]][[NB]][[了]]。 (''[[Traditional Chinese|trad.]]'')
#: [[他]][[小说]][[写]][[的]][[太]][[NB]][[了]]。 (''[[Simplified Chinese|simp.]]'')
#:: The novels he writes are fucking awesome.
#: [[哥們]][[兒]]，[[別]][[傻]][[說]]，[[美國]][[比]][[英國]][[NB]]，[[美國]][[是]][[超級大國]]！ (''[[Traditional Chinese|trad.]]'')
#: [[哥们]][[儿]]，[[别]][[傻]][[说]]，[[美国]][[比]][[英国]][[NB]]，[[美国]][[是]][[超级大国]]！ (''[[Simplified Chinese|simp.]]'')
#:: Dude, don't talk shit. America's heaps stronger than Britain - U.S.A. is the superpower!
#: [[這]][[輛]][[摩托車]][[真]][[NB]]，[[載]][[了]][[3]][[個]][[人]][[還]][[開]][[這麼]][[快]]。 (''[[Traditional Chinese|trad.]]'')
#: [[这]][[辆]][[摩托车]][[真]][[NB]]，[[载]][[了]][[3]][[个]][[人]][[还]][[开]][[这么]][[快]]。 (''[[Simplified Chinese|simp.]]'')
#:: This motorbike's frigging awesome. Even with three people it still goes pretty fast.

====Synonyms====
{{rel-top|synonyms of NB}}
* [[niúbāi]] [[牛掰]]
* [[niúbī]] [[牛逼]]
* [[niúbī]] [[牛屄]]
* [[niúbí]] [[牛鼻]]
* [[niúbǐ]] [[牛比]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[niúbǐ]] [[牛B]]
* [[niúchā]] [[牛叉]]
* [[niúchā]] [[牛X]]
* [[niú]] [[牛]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[傻逼]]
* [[太强]]
* [[酷比]]

===References===
* {{cite web|url=http://www.nciku.com/|title=牛逼|work=Nciku|language=Mandarin/English|accessdate=2009-06-20}}
* {{pedialite|Mandarin_slang|lang=en}}

[[Category:Mandarin slang in tradition script]]

[[de:NB]]
[[et:NB]]
[[fr:NB]]
[[nl:NB]]
[[pl:NB]]
[[fi:NB]]
[[tr:NB]]
[[zh:NB]]