{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|means|thus|order|285|near|public|others|anything}}

===Pronunciation===
* (''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{IPA|/nɪə/}}, {{SAMPA|/nI@/}}
* (''[[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/nɪɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/nI@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-near.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪə(r)|-ɪə(r)]]

===Etymology===
Middle English from Old Norse ''[[nær]]''

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# {{context|of an animate or inanimate object}} physically [[close]].
# {{context|of an event}} approaching
#: ''The end is '''near'''.''

====Antonyms====
* [[remote]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|physically close}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[قريب]]}} (qarīb)
* Chinese: [[近]] (jìn)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|blízký|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|proksima|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|läheinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|près}}, {{t+|fr|proche}}
* German: {{t+|de|nahe}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|közel}}
* [[Ido]]: [[proxim]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|vicino}}
* Japanese: [[近い]] ([[ちかい]], chikai)
* Korean: [[가깝다]] (gakkapda)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|نزیک|tr=nzeek|sc=KUchar}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|neah|alt=nēah|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bliski}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|perto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|близкий|tr=blízkij|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[dlùth]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cerca}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|nära}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[దగ్గర]] (daggara)
* [[Venetian]]: [[vissin]]
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|gần|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|er}}

# Having a small intervening distance with regard to something.
#: ''I'm '''near''' sighted.''
# {{rfv-sense}} Approaching the end.
#: ''I'm '''near''' completed.''
# {{colloquial}} [[nearly]]
#* '''1666''' Samuel Pepys ''Diary and Correspondence'' (1867)
#*: ...he hears for certain that the Queen-Mother is about and hath '''near''' finished a peace with France....
#* '''1825''' David Hume, Tobias George Smollett ''The History of England'' p. 263
#*: Sir John Friend had very '''near''' completed a regiment of horse.
#* '''2003''' Owen Parry ''Honor's Kingdom'' p. 365
#*: Thinking about those pounds and pence, I '''near''' forgot my wound.
#* '''2004''' Jimmy Buffett ''A Salty Piece of Land'' p. 315, p. 35
#*: "I damn '''near''' forgot." He pulled an envelope from his jacket.
#* '''2006''' Juliet Marillier ''The Dark Mirror'' p. 377
#*: The fire was almost dead, the chamber '''near''' dark.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Having a small intervening distance with regard to something.}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[قريب]]}} (qarīb)
* Chinese: [[近]] (jìn)
* Dutch: [[nabij]], [[bij]], [[naverwant]], [[dierbaar]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lähellä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|près}}
* German: {{t+|de|nah}}
* Hebrew: [[קרוב]], [[ליד]]
* [[Ido]]: [[apud]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|circa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[近く]] (ちかく, chikaku), [[近くに]] (ちかくに, chikaku ni)
* Korean: [[가까이]] (gakkai)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[نزیک]]}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|neah|alt=nēah|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|blisko}}
* Portuguese [[perto]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cerca}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[దగ్గరగా]] (daggaragaa)
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|gần|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{infl|en|preposition}}

# [[close]] to, in close [[proximity]] to.
#: ''We sat '''near''' the front.''
# [[imminent]], close to in [[time]].
#: ''The voyage was '''near''' completion.''

====Antonyms====
* [[far from]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in close proximity to}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[عند]]}} (‘inda)
* French: {{t+|fr|près de}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[نزیک]]}}, {{KUchar|[[ته‌نیشت]]}}, {{KUchar|[[ته‌ک]]}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|neah|alt=nēah|xs=Old English}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: [[cerca de]]
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|gần|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[decrease]] the distance to something.

====Translations====
{{top}}
* Czech: [[blížit]]
* Dutch: [[naderen]], [[dichterbijkomen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lähestyä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|approcher}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|nálgast}}
{{mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|avvicinare}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|نزیک بوونه‌وه|tr=nzeek boonawa|sc=KUchar}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aproximar}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Time]]

[[ar:near]]
[[el:near]]
[[es:near]]
[[fr:near]]
[[io:near]]
[[id:near]]
[[it:near]]
[[kk:near]]
[[ku:near]]
[[li:near]]
[[hu:near]]
[[ja:near]]
[[pl:near]]
[[ru:near]]
[[simple:near]]
[[fi:near]]
[[sv:near]]
[[ta:near]]
[[te:near]]
[[vi:near]]
[[tr:near]]
[[uk:near]]
[[zh:near]]