==English==
{{was wotd|2006|February|23}}

===Etymology===
From {{bor|en|la|nefārius||execrable, abominable}}, from {{m|la|nefās||something contrary to divine law, an impious deed, sin, crime}}, from {{m|la|ne-||not}} + {{m|la|fās||the dictates of religion, divine law}}, which is related to Latin {{m|la|for||I speak, I say}} and cognate to Ancient Greek {{m|grc|φημί||I say}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/nɛˈfɛəɹi.əs/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/nɪˈfɛːɹɪ.əs/}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-nefarious.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɛəɹiəs|s=4}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[sinful|Sinful]], [[villainous]], [[criminal]], or [[wicked]], especially when [[noteworthy]] or [[notorious]] for such characteristics.
#: {{syn|en|evil|iniquitous|sinister|underhanded|vile|good-for-nothing|Thesaurus:evil}}
#* '''1828''', [[w:James Fenimore Cooper|James Fenimore Cooper]], ''The Red Rover'', ch. 2:
#*: "If the vessel be no fair-trading slaver, nor a common cruiser of his Majesty, it is as tangible as the best man's reasoning, that she may be neither more nor less than the ship of that '''nefarious''' pirate the Red Rover."
#* '''1877''', [[w:Anthony Trollope|Anthony Trollope]], ''The Life of Cicero'', ch. 9:
#*: Mommsen . . . declares that Catiline in particular was "one of the most '''nefarious''' men in that '''nefarious''' age. His villanies belong to the criminal records, not to history."
#* '''1921''', [[w:P. G. Wodehouse|P. G. Wodehouse]], ''The Indiscretions of Archie'', ch. 26:
#*: The fact that the room was still in darkness made it obvious that something '''nefarious''' was afoot. Plainly there was dirty work in preparation at the cross-roads.
#* '''2009''' Oct. 14, Monica Davey, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/15/us/politics/15bachside.html?_r=0 Fact Checker Finds Falsehoods in Remarks]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 12 May 2014)</small>:
#*: “I try to let everyone back here in Minnesota know exactly the '''nefarious''' activities that are taking place in Washington.”
#: ''Aliens have a '''nefarious''' connotation in many science fiction books.''

====Usage notes====
* Commonly used in contexts involving villainous [[plan]]s, [[conspiracy|conspiracies]], or [[action]]s, as in:
:* '''1909''', [[w:Bram Stoker|Bram Stoker]], ''The Lady of the Shroud'', book 7:
::: The whole '''nefarious''' scheme was one of the "put-up jobs" which are part of the dirty work of a certain order of statecraft.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|nefariously}}
* {{l|en|nefariousness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sinful, villainous, criminal, or wicked, especially when noteworthy or notorious for such characteristics}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|شَائِن}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|престъпен}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|berucht}}, {{t+|nl|schandelijk}}, {{t+|nl|misdadig}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|skandala}}, {{t|eo|malfarinda}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paheellinen}}, {{t+|fi|paha}}, {{t+|fi|pirullinen}}, {{t+|fi|turmeltunut}}, {{t+|fi|katala}}
* French: {{t+|fr|infâme}}, {{t+|fr|malfaisant}}, {{t+|fr|néfaste}}
* German: {{t+|de|berüchtigt}}, {{t+|de|schändlich}}, {{t+|de|ruchlos}}, {{t+|de|verachtenswert}}, {{t+|de|bösartig}}, {{t+|de|böse}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyalázatos}}, {{t+|hu|alávaló}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nefasto}}, {{t+|it|scellerato}}, {{t+|it|diabolico}}, {{t+|it|infernale}}, {{t+|it|sinistro}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|사악(邪惡)하다}}
* Latin: {{t|la|nefārius}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|avskyelig}}, {{t|no|skjendig}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|schentlich}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|nefasto}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|abject}}, {{t+|ro|infam}}, {{t+|ro|păcătos}}, {{t+|ro|vicios}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бесче́стный}}; {{t+|ru|нече́стный}}, {{t+|ru|ни́зкий}}; {{t+|ru|гну́сный}}, {{t+|ru|ме́рзкий}}, {{t+|ru|по́длый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nefario}}, {{t+|es|nefando}}, {{t+|es|feo}} {{qualifier|Mexico}}, {{t+|es|infame}}, {{t|es|vicioso}}, {{t+|es|malvado}}, {{t+|es|inicuo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skändlig}}, {{t+|sv|gudlös}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aefinorsu|isofurane}}