{{selfref|See also [[Wiktionary:Neologisms]]}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|néologisme}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|νέος||new}} + {{m|grc|λόγος||word}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/niːˈɒlədʒɪzəm/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|linguistics|lexicography|countable}} A word or phrase which has recently been coined; a new word or phrase.
#: {{syn|en|coinage}}
# {{lb|en|linguistics|uncountable}} The act or instance of coining, or uttering a new word.
# {{lb|en|psychiatry}} The newly coined, meaningless words or phrases of someone with a [[psychosis]], usually [[schizophrenia]].
# The introduction of new [[doctrine]], for example in [[theology]].

====Usage notes====
* There is no precise moment when a word stops being "new", but 15&ndash;20 years is a common cutoff (corresponding to one [[generation]] growing up potentially familiar with the word, depending on how common it is). Acceptance of a word as valid by dictionaries or by a significant portion of the population are sometimes mentioned as additional conditions. Some neologisms become widespread and standard (such as new chemical element names), others remain rare or slangy. (Distinguish from [[protologism]]s, coinages which have not become common.)

====Antonyms====
* [[paleologism]]

====Derived terms====
* [[diffused neologism]]
* {{l|en|neologistic}}
* [[stable neologism]]

====Related terms====
* [[neologize]]
* [[neologizer]]
* [[neology]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|recently coined word}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مُوَلَّدَة|f}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|neologismo}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|neologisme|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|新詞語|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|新词语|tr=xīncíyǔ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|新詞|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|新词|tr=xīncí|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|novotvar|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|neologisme|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|neologisme|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|neologismo}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|nýggjyrði|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|uudismuodoste}}, {{t+|fi|uudissana}}
* French: {{t+|fr|néologisme|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|neoloxismo|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Neologismus|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|νεολογισμός|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|תַּחְדִּישׁ|tr=takhdish}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|neologizmus}}, {{t|hu|szóújítás}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|nýyrði|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|neologismo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|新語|tr=しんご, shingo}}, {{t|ja|新造語|tr=しんぞうご, shinzōgo}}, {{t+|ja|造語|tr=ぞうご, zōgo}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|жаңа сөз}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|신어}} ({{t+|ko|新語|sc=Hani}}), {{t+|ko|신조어}} ({{t+|ko|新造語|sc=Hani}})
* Latin: {{t|la|neologismus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|jaunvārds|m}}, {{t|lv|neoloģisms|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|naujadaras|m}}, {{t|lt|neologizmas|m}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|noa-ockle|m}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|neologisme|m}}, {{t|no|nyord|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|no|neologisme|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|neologizm|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|neologismo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|neologism|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неологи́зм|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|neologizam|m}}, {{t+|sh|novotvorenica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|neologismo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|neologism|c}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|yenici deyim}}
* Udmurt: {{t|udm|вылькыл}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|instance of coinage}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|تَوْلِيد|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szóalkotás}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|schizophrenic meaningless word}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|νεολογισμός|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|neologisme|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[protologism]]
* [[vogue word]]s
* [[:Category:English neologisms]]

====References====
* ''The Oxford Dictionary of American Usage and Style.'' Bryan A. Garner. Oxford University Press, 2000. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press. 21 June 2006
* ''The American Heritage® Stedman's Medical Dictionary'' Copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=egilmnoos|mooseling}}

[[Category:English words suffixed with -ism]]