==English==

===Etymology===
Latin, from ''[[ne]]'' not + ''[[uter]]'' whether; akin to English [[whether]]. See [[no]], and whether, and compare [[neither]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{italbrac|[[RP]]}} {{IPA|/ˈnjuːtə/}}
*{{italbrac|US}} {{IPA|/ˈnuːtɚ/ ''or'' /ˈnjuːtɚ/}}
*{{audio|en-us-neuter.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{rhymes|uːtə(r)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{archaic}} Neither the one thing nor the other; on neither side; impartial; neutral.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In all our undertakings God will be either our friend or our enemy; for Providence never stands '''neuter''' — [[South]]
#{{Grammar}} Having a form belonging more especially to words which are not appellations of males or females; expressing or designating that which is of neither sex; as, a neuter noun; a neuter termination; the neuter gender.
#{{Grammar}} Intransitive; as, a neuter verb.
#{{Biology}} Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones; sexless.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Danish: [[intetkøn]] (2)
*Faroese: [[hvørkikyn]]
*Finnish: [[neutri]]- (2,4, ''in compounds''), [[intransitiivinen]] (3)
*French: [[neutre]]
*German: [[sächlich]] (2), [[intransitiv]] (3), [[geschlechtslos]] (4)
*Greek: [[ουδέτερος]] (oudéteros) [[:el:ουδέτερος|el]]
*Hebrew: [[ניטרלי]] (neytráli) {{m}}
*Italian: [[neutro]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[中性]] (ちゅうせい, chūsei), [[中立]] (ちゅうりつ, chūritsu)
*Norwegian: [[nøytral]] (1), [[intetkjønn]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[neutro]]
*Romanian:[[neutru]]
*Russian: [[средний]] (srédnij) (2), [[непереходный]] (neperexódnyj) (3), [[бесполный]] (bespólnyj) (4), [[нейтральный]]
*Spanish: [[neutral]] (1), [[neutro]] (2,3,4)
*Swedish: [[neutrum]] (2)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#A person who takes no part in a contest; one who is either indifferent to a cause or forbears to interfere; a neutral.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The world’s no '''neuter'''; it will wound or save — [[Young]]
#{{Grammar}}: A noun of the neuter gender; any one of those words which have the terminations usually found in neuter words.
#{{Grammar}}: An intransitive verb.
#{{Biology}}: An organism, either vegetable or animal, which at its maturity has no [[generative]] [[organ]]s, or but imperfectly developed ones, as a plant without [[stamen]]s or [[pistil]]s, as the garden [[Hydrangea]]; especially, one of the imperfectly developed females of certain social insects, as of the ant and the common honeybee, which perform the labors of the community, and are called workers.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[neutraali]] (1), [[neutri]] (2, 4), [[puolueeton]] (1), [[intransitiiviverbi]] (3),
*German: [[Neutrum]] {{n}} (2), [[Intransitivum]] {{n}} (3)
*Greek: [[ουδέτερον γένος]] (oudéteron génos) {{n}} (2)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[中性]] (ちゅうせい, chūsei)
*Russian: [[средний род]] (srédnij rod) (2)
*Swedish: [[neutrum]] (2)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[remove]] [[sex organ]]s from an animal to prevent it from having offspring; to [[castrate]] or [[spay]], particularly as applied to domestic animals.

====Synonyms====
*[[castrate]], [[desex]], [[doctor]], [[fix]], [[spay]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to remove sex organs from an animal}}
*Dutch: [[onzijdig]]
*Finnish: [[kuohita]], [[kuohia]], [[kastroida]], [[leikata]], [[steriloida]]
*French: [[châtrer]]
*German: [[verschneiden]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Greek: [[ευνουχίζω]] (evnoukhízo)
*Russian: [[кастрировать]] (kastrírovat’), [[обесплодить]] (obesplódit’)
*Spanish: [[castrar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[fa:neuter]]
[[fr:neuter]]
[[ko:neuter]]
[[io:neuter]]
[[pt:neuter]]
[[ru:neuter]]
[[vi:neuter]]
[[tr:neuter]]
[[zh:neuter]]