==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|New York|er}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɔː(r)kə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

New Yorker may refer to:

*A person who was born, raised, and resides in New York City (NYC). It mostly refers to Manhattan (the city), but also extends to the boroughs (Brooklyn, Queens, The Bronx, Staten Island), and usually to those in nearby Nassau County, Long Island (on the border of Queens).

*A person who was born and raised in NYC, but resides elsewhere now. Oftentimes native New Yorkers move nearby in the tri-state area (NY, especially Westchester and Long Island, New Jersey, and Connecticut). A person born and raised in NYC, but lives anywhere else is still a New Yorker.

*A resident of New York City (see Demographics of New York City) is not a native New Yorker, but a transplant to NY. A person who moves to NYC from Boston, for instance, is still considered a Bostonian by native New Yorkers. This person is also known as a NYC resident.

*A resident of New York state (see Demographics of New York)


====Translations====
{{trans-top|An inhabitant or a resident of New York City}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նյույորքցի|tr=nyuyorkʿcʿi|sc=Armn}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|novaiorquès|m}}, {{t-|ca|novaiorquesa|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|紐約人|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|纽约人|tr=Niǔyuērén|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Newyorčan|m}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|New Yorker|m}}, {{t-|nl|New Yorkse|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|Nov-Jorkano}}, {{t-|eo|Novjorkano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|newyorkilainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|New-Yorkais|m}}, {{t+|fr|New-Yorkaise|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|New Yorker|m}}, {{t-|de|New Yorkerin|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|newyorkese|m|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nowojorczyk|m}}, {{t+|pl|nowojorczanka|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|нью-йоркец|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|neoyorkino}}, {{t+|es|neoyorquino|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An inhabitant or a resident of the state of New York}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նյույորքցի|tr=nyuyorkʿcʿi|sc=Armn}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|紐約人|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|纽约人|tr=Niǔyuērén|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|New Yorker|m}}, {{t-|nl|New Yorkse|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|Nov-Jorkiano}}, {{t-|eo|Novjorkiano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|newyorkilainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|New Yorker|m}}, {{t-|de|New Yorkerin|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Nowojorczyk|m}}, {{t+|pl|Nowojorczanka|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|new yorkare|c}}, {{t-|sv|new yorkbo|c}}
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|New Yorklu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Demonyms]]

[[de:New Yorker]]
[[et:New Yorker]]
[[fr:New Yorker]]
[[pl:New Yorker]]
[[ru:New Yorker]]
[[simple:New Yorker]]
[[zh:New Yorker]]