==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{m|odt|*nift}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{m|gem-pro|*niftiz}}. Cognate to German {{term|Nichte|lang=de}} (from Low German).

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɪxt|lang=nl}}
* {{IPA|/nɪxt/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-nicht.ogg|audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|f|-en|nichtje}}

# [[female]] [[cousin]]; daughter of someone's uncle or aunt
# [[niece]]; daughter of someone's brother or sister
# [[niece]]; daughter of someone's brother- or sister-in-law
# {{context|derogatory|lang=nl}} male [[homosexual]], a [[gay]] [[man]]

[[Category:nl:Family]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gmh|de}} {{term|niwiht|lang=gmh}}, {{term|niweht|lang=gmh}}, {{term|niht|lang=gmh}}, a contracted form of {{etyl|goh|de}} {{term|niowiht|lang=goh}}, from {{term|nio||never|lang=goh}} + {{term|wiht||being, creature|lang=goh}}, derived from {{etyl|gem-pro|de}} {{m|gem-pro|*ne||not}} + {{m|gem-pro|*aiw-||ever}} + {{m|gem-pro|*wiht-||thing}}. Akin to Dutch {{term|niet|lang=nl}}, West Frisian {{term|net|lang=fy}}, English {{term|not|lang=en}} where similar developments took place.

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|de|nich}}, {{l|de|nich'}} {{qualifier|informal writing, reflecting the common pronunciation}}
* {{l|de|net}} {{qualifier|colloquial; in central Germany, southern Germany, Austria}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nɪçt/|[nɪçt]|lang=de}} {{qualifier|official standard}}
* {{IPA|/nɪç/|[nɪç]|lang=de}} {{qualifier|common speech; regarded as quasi-standard in northern and central Germany}}
* {{audio|De-nicht.ogg|audio|lang=de}}
* {{rhymes|ɪçt|ɪç|lang=de}}

===Adverb===
{{de-adv}}

# [[not]]
#: ''Bitte '''nicht''' stören!''
#:: Please do '''not''' disturb!
#: ''Das ist '''nicht''' wahr.''
#:: That is '''not''' true.

====Usage notes====
* The adverb ''nicht'' cannot freely be used in combination with indefinite nouns. Instead the negative pronoun {{term|kein|lang=de}} is used.
:: ''Ich sehe keine andere Möglichkeit.'' – “I don't see any other possibility.”
:: ''Er hat keine Äpfel mitgebracht.'' – “He hasn't brought apples.”
* ''Nicht'' can be used with indefinite nouns under certain circumstances, for example if the noun precedes the adverb, or if it is contrasted with another noun.
:: ''Äpfel hat er nicht mitgebracht.'' – “Apples he hasn't brought.”
:: ''Es kam heraus, dass er nicht einen Hahn sondern ein Huhn gekauft hatte.'' – “It turned out that he hadn't bought a rooster but a chicken.”

====Derived terms====
* {{l|de|nichtig}}
* {{l|de|Nichtigkeit}}

===Interjection===
{{head|de|interjection|head=nicht?}}

# {{context|tag question|dated|or|formal|lang=de}} [[right]]?; is it?; is it not?
#: ''Du bist sicher die Claudia, '''nicht?'''''
#:: You must be Claudia, '''aren't you?'''

====Synonyms====
* {{l/de|gell}
* {{l/de|ne}}
* {{l/de|nicht wahr}}
* {{l/de|oder}}
* {{l/de|wa}}

----

==Kashubian==

===Pronoun===
{{head|csb|pronoun}}

# [[nobody]], [[no one]]

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|sco}} {{term|niht|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nɪçt/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# [[night]], [[evening]]
#* '''c. 1495''', {{w|William Dunbar}}, ''The Tua Mariit Wemen and the Wedo'':
#*: Apon the Midsummer evin, mirriest of '''nichtis''', / I muvit furth allane [...].
# {{context|definite singular|lang=sco}} [[tonight]]
#* ''It's a braw, bricht, moonlit '''nicht''' '''the nicht'''.''  It's a beautiful, bright moonlit night tonight.

====Derived terms====
* [[fortnicht]]

[[ast:nicht]]
[[br:nicht]]
[[cs:nicht]]
[[de:nicht]]
[[et:nicht]]
[[el:nicht]]
[[es:nicht]]
[[eu:nicht]]
[[fr:nicht]]
[[gl:nicht]]
[[ko:nicht]]
[[io:nicht]]
[[id:nicht]]
[[it:nicht]]
[[ku:nicht]]
[[li:nicht]]
[[hu:nicht]]
[[mg:nicht]]
[[fj:nicht]]
[[nl:nicht]]
[[ja:nicht]]
[[no:nicht]]
[[nds:nicht]]
[[pl:nicht]]
[[pt:nicht]]
[[ro:nicht]]
[[ru:nicht]]
[[fi:nicht]]
[[sv:nicht]]
[[tl:nicht]]
[[chr:nicht]]
[[tr:nicht]]
[[zh:nicht]]