{{also|Nick}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nɪk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-nick.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-au-nick.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|Nick|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From a variation of {{m|en|nock}}. Compare German {{m|de|Knick||a flaw, defect}}; German {{m|de|knicken||to crack}}.
Also partly from {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|nicken}}, {{m|enm|nikken||to nod; wink}}, an intensive form of {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|hnīgan||to bend, bow down, incline, descend, decline, sink}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*hnīganą}}, {{m|gem-pro|*hnīwaną||to bow, tilt, slant, slope, incline}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*kneygʷʰ-||to bend, bow}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*ken-||to press, pinch, kink}}. Cognate with Old Frisian {{m|ofs|hnekka||to nod}}, Dutch {{m|nl|nikken||to nod}}, German {{m|de|nicken||to nod; kink}}, Danish {{m|da|nikke||to nod}}, Swedish {{m|sv|nicka||to nod}}.
The sense "point in time", "point marked" is from a conflation of the "notch" and the "wink" (i.e. "moment") senses.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small [[cut]] in a [[surface]].
## {{lb|en|now|_|rare}} A particular point or place considered as marked by a nick; the exact point or [[critical]] moment.
##: ''[[in the nick of time|in the '''nick''' of time]]''
##* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.20:
##*: Truely he flies when he is even upon the '''nicke''', and naturally hasteneth to escape it, as from a step whereon he cannot stay or containe himselfe, and feareth to sinke into it.
##* Howell
##*: to cut it off in the very '''nick'''
## {{lb|en|printing|dated}} A [[notch]] cut [[crosswise]] in the [[shank]] of a [[type]], to assist a [[compositor]] in placing it properly in the [[stick]], and in distribution.
##: {{rfquotek|W. Savage}}
# ''Meanings connoting something small.''
#* '''1855''', {{w|Robert Browning}}, [[s:Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came|“Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came”]], XXIX:
#*: [...] When, in the very '''nick''' / Of giving up, one time more, came a click / As when a trap shuts - you're inside the den!
## {{lb|en|cricket}} A small [[deflection]] of the [[ball]] off the [[edge]] of the [[bat]], often going to the [[wicket-keeper]] for a [[catch]].
## {{lb|en|[[real tennis]]}} The point where the [[wall]] of the [[court]] meets the [[floor]].
## {{lb|en|genetics}} One of the single-stranded [[DNA]] [[segment]]s produced during [[nick translation]].
# {{lb|en|archaic}} A [[nixie]], or water-sprite.
#* '''1879''', Viktor Rydberg, ''The Magic of the Middle Ages'' (p.201)
#*: {{...}}imps, giants, trolls, forest-spirits, elves and hobgoblins in and on the earth; '''nicks''', river-sprites in the water, fiends in the air, and salamanders in the fire.
# {{lb|en|UK|slang}} In the expressions ''in bad nick'' and ''in good nick'': [[condition]].
#: ''The car I bought was cheap and in good '''nick'''''.
#* {{quote-journal|author=Jane Gardam|title=Give us a bishop in high heels &#91;print version: “Give us a high-heeled bishop”, ''International New York Times'', 22 July 2014, p.&nbsp;11&#93;|url=http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/21/opinion/church-of-england-female-bishops.html|work={{w|The New York Times}}|date=20 July 2014|passage=[F]urther south in Kent, there was St. Mildred, whose mother, in 670, founded the minster that still stands there in good '''nick''', with nine nuns who are an ever-present help in trouble to all religions and none.}}
# {{lb|en|British|law enforcement|_|slang}} A [[police]] [[station]] or [[prison]].
#: ''He was arrested and taken down to Sun Hill '''nick''' [police station] to be charged.''
#: ''He's just been released from Shadwell '''nick''' [prison] after doing ten years for attempted murder.''

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|in the nick of time}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|small cut in a surface}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zářez|m}}, {{t+|cs|vrub|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|naarmu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tongari}}, {{t|mi|tokari}}, {{t|mi|pakini}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|critical moment}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käännekohta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: small deflection of the ball}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näpy}}, {{t|fi|näpäys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|real tennis: point where the wall of the court meets the floor}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|condition}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kondis}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: police station or prison}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|naarmu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poste|m}}, {{t+|fr|taule|f}}, {{t+|fr|zonzon|f}}, {{t+|fr|gnouf|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make a nick or notch in; to cut or scratch in a minor way.
#: ''I '''nicked''' myself while I was shaving.''
## To make a cross cut or cuts on the underside of (the tail of a horse, in order to make the animal carry it higher).
## To mar; to deface; to make ragged, as by cutting nicks or notches in.
##* Prior
##*: And thence proceed to '''nicking''' sashes.
##* Shakespeare
##*: The itch of his affection should not then / Have '''nicked''' his captainship.
# To suit or fit into, as by a correspondence of nicks; to tally with.
#* Camden
#*: Words '''nicking''' and resembling one another are applicable to different significations.
## To hit at, or in, the nick; to touch rightly; to strike at the precise point or time.
##* L'Estrange
##*: The just season of doing things must be '''nicked''', and all accidents improved.
## To throw or turn up (a number when playing dice); to hit upon.
##* {{quote-book|year=1773
|author=Oliver Goldsmith
|title=She Stoops to Conquer
|text=My old luck: I never '''nicked''' seven that I did not throw ames ace three times following.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive|cricket}} to hit the ball with the edge of the bat and produce a fine deflection
# {{lb|en|transitive|British|slang}} To [[steal]].
#: ''Someone's '''nicked''' my bike!''
# {{lb|en|transitive|British|law enforcement|_|slang}} To [[arrest]].
#: ''The police '''nicked''' him climbing over the fence of the house he'd broken into.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|slang: to make a nick in}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|raapaista}}, {{t+|fi|naarmuttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pakini}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: to hit he ball with the edge of a bat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näpäyttää}}, {{t|fi|näpätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: to steal}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pölliä}}, {{t+|fi|nyysiä}}, {{t+|fi|vohkia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|piquer}}
* German: {{t+|de|klauen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ты́рить}}, {{t+|ru|спереть}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|norpa}}, {{t+|sv|knycka}}, {{t+|sv|sno}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: to arrest}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|napata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|internet}} {{clipping of|nickname|lang=en}}
#: ''a user's reserved '''nick''' on an IRC network''
#* '''1995''', Donald Rose, ''Internet Chat quick tour''
#*: Changes your nickname — the name by which other IRCers see and refer to you — to anything you'd like (but remember that nine characters is the maximum '''nick''' length).
#* '''2014''', Josh Datko, ''BeagleBone for Secret Agents''
#*: Also, ERC, like Emacs, is extremely modular and flexible. It is, of course, a free software program, but there are also many existing modules from '''nick''' highlighting to autoaway that you can use.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete|transitive}} To nickname; to style.
#* Ford
#*: ''For Warbeck, as you '''nick''' him, came to me.''

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=cikn|CKIN}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nɪk/|lang=de}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk|lang=de}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|nicken|i|s}}
# {{lb|de|colloquial}} {{de-verb form of|nicken|1|s|g}}

----

==Kashubian==

===Pronoun===
{{head|csb|pronoun}}

# [[nothing]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-nick.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Etymology 1===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|c}}

# [[nod]] (''movement of the head to indicate agreement'')
# [[header]] (''in football'')

=====Declension=====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-ar}}

=====Synonyms=====
* (''header''): [[nickning]] ''c''
* (''nod''): [[nickning]] ''c''

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|sv|nickedocka}}
* {{l|sv|nicka}}
* {{l|sv|nicka till}}

===Etymology 2===
From the English [[nickname]]

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|n}}

# {{lb|sv|slang}} [[nick]], [[nickname]]

=====Declension=====
{{sv-infl-noun-n-zero}}