==English==
{{rfv}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|pos=[[nigger]] [[rich]]|-}}

# {{context|of a person}} living [[ostentatiously]], spending money [[recklessly]]

====Usage notes====
''Nigger Rich'' is an derogatory term equivalent to that of the legitimate expression of Nouveau riche. As implied by the expression, Nigger Rich is the state of someone who is either not wealthy, does not have "class", or has recently earned her (usually his) money spending one's money extravagantly. The supposed irony is that this person does not have or "should not" have this money is spending all of one's money as soon as it is earned, usually in a wasteful fashion that is lacking any planning for the future. The expression implies that money should be spent in a specific way by a specific race. Other than being used to literally denigrate blacks, it is used to insult other non-White Anglo-Saxon Protestant people as well. The expression can as easily be used to insult Italians, Hispanics, and White Trash. To make this expression even more offensive towards blacks, it is supposed to be insulting to have one's spending habits compared to that of a black person.

In the sense of "spending money recklessly", nigger rich behavior is a sound economic strategy for those who are subject to pillage by the surrounding society. If at any time one can be robbed of anything one has without recourse then it is impossible to save or invest any asset that happens to become available. Hence it is a sound strategy to simply spend the asset as quickly as possible before it is taken away; at least the resulting memories cannot be robbed. As "subject to wanton pillage" is a fair description for the life of blacks for much of their American history, the nigger rich are behaving rationally despite the mocking term. Consequently "nigger rich" may be used as an economic term without offense and indeed without referring to blacks at all.