{{also|Nigger}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Ultimately from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|lang=la|niger||black}}, via {{etyl|es|en}} {{m|es|negro}} or {{etyl|pt|en}} {{m|pt|negro}}, which were borrowed into English during the time of the slave trade (see {{m|en|negro}}). In speech, "negro" was corrupted to "neggero" and then to simply "nigger". 

Compare {{etyl|fr|-}} {{m|fr|nègre}} and {{etyl|it|-}} {{m|it|negro}}, also borrowed Spanish (vs the inherited terms {{m|fr|noir}} and {{m|it|nero}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|nĭg'ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈnɪɡə(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-ncalif-nigger.ogg|Audio (Northern California, US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪɡə(ɹ)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|offensive|ethnic slur|now|_|vulgar|see [[nigger#Usage notes|usage notes]]|lang=en}} A dark-skinned person, especially a person of, or primarily of, [[Negro]] descent; a black person.
#* {{RQ:Twain Huckleberry|XV}}
#*: It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a '''nigger'''; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it afterwards, neither.
#* {{quote-book
  | year = 1929
  | first = Ernest
  | last = Hemingway
  | authorlink = Ernest Hemingway
  | title = A Farewell to Arms
  | location = New York
  | publisher = Charles Scribner's Sons
  | page = 274
  | url = https://archive.org/details/farewelltoarms01hemi
  | passage = “Othello with his occupation gone,” she teased. “Othello was a '''nigger''',” I said.}}
#* {{quote-video
  | year = 2004
  | title = [[w:Hotel Rwanda|Hotel Rwanda]]
  | people = {{w|Nick Nolte}}
  | role = Colonel Oliver
  | passage = You are not even a '''nigger''', you are an African.}}
# {{context|offensive|ethnic slur|vulgar slang|lang=en}} A person of Negro descent who acts in an unapproved manner, usually as an [[archetypical]] [[badass]].
#* {{quote-video
  | year = 1996
  | people = {{w|Chris Rock}}
  | title = Chris Rock: Bring the Pain
  | url = http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0200529/
  | passage = There's black people, and there's '''''niggers'''''. And '''niggers''' have got to go. Every time black people wanna have a good time, ign'ant-ass '''niggers''' fuck it up.}}
#* {{quote-song
  | year = 2008
  | title = The N Word
  | album = The CPT Theorem
  | composer = {{w|Greydon Square}}
  | passage = See, '''niggers''' are followers, blacks normally lead. / '''Niggers''' call blacks "whitewash" soon as they on the scene.}}
#* {{quote-book
  | date = 2010-04-13
  | title = Oprah: A Biography
  | first = Kitty
  | last = Kelley
  | authorlink = Kitty Kelley
  | location = New York
  | publisher = Crown
  | quotee = an unnamed town resident
  | isbn = 9780307394866
  | ol = 24087304M
  | page = 193
  | pageurl = http://books.google.com/books?id=CdvXLjqAcccC&pg=PA193&dq=nigger
  | passage = Blacks stayed at home during the civil rights march. '''Niggers''' are the ones that marched.}}
# {{context|African American Vernacular English|lang=en}} {{non-gloss definition|Informal term of address.}}
#* '''2002''', Earl Ofari Hutchinson, "Loaded Language", a review of ''Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word'' by Randall Kennedy, ''Washington Post'', Sunday, January 13, 2002; Page BW06,
#*: I had overheard him greet a buddy who called him on the phone with "Yo, '''nigger''', what's up?"
# {{context|now|_|offensive|lang=en}} A fish, the [[luderick]].
# {{cx|archaic|electrical|lang=en}} An [[impurity]] in the covering of an [[electrical]] [[conductor]] which serves to make a partial [[short circuit]], and thus becomes sufficiently heated to burn and destroy the [[insulation]].
#* '''1892''', ''Western Electrician'' (volume 11, page 72)
#*: Now to locate the portion of the machine which contains the "'''nigger'''."
# {{cx|UK|Cornwall|fishing|archaic|lang=en}} ''Holothuria nigra'', the [[cotton spinner]].
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} A [[black]] [[caterpillar]], the [[larva]] of the [[turnip sawfly]].
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} A strong iron-bound [[timber]] with sharp [[tooth|teeth]] or [[spike]]s protruding from its front face, forming part of the [[machinery]] of a [[sawmill]], and used in [[cant]]ing [[log]]s, etc.
# {{cx|archaic|US|lang=en}} A [[steam]]-[[capstan]] on some [[Mississippi]] river boats, used to haul the boat over bars and snags by a rope fastened to a tree on the bank.
#* ''Goldenseal'' (volume 9, page 20)
#*: Well, it's a big heavy line, and you operate the '''nigger''' — capstan it's also called — by steam. You wrap your line around that and keep taking in the slack, and that draws up them things.

====Usage notes====
* The word "nigger" is one of the most offensive [[swear word]]s in the English language, especially in the United States. In a study by Kristy Beers Fägersten, Americans rated ''nigger'' the most offensive word, more offensive than<!--this is mentioned specifically to convey that the two words were compared and "n" was ore offensive in the US, opposite to the situation in the UK and NZ--> ''[[cunt]]''.<ref>Kristy Beers Fägersten ''A sociolinguistic analysis of swear word offensiveness'' (2007)</ref> A study by New Zealand's {{w|Broadcasting Standards Authority}} found that ''nigger'' was the second-most offensive word in New Zealand (after ''[[cunt]]''), offending 66% of people,<ref>[http://bsa.govt.nz/images/assets/Research/What-Not-to-Swear-Full-BSA2010.pdf What Not to Swear]</ref> and a similar study by several British broadcasting organizations found that "nigger" offended 68% of Brits and was the fifth most offensive swear word in the UK (after ''[[cunt]]'', ''[[motherfucker]]'', ''[[fuck]]'', and ''[[wanker]]'').<ref>[http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/itc/uploads/Delete_Expletives.pdf "Delete expletives?"]</ref>
* There have been efforts by those of African descent to reclaim the word (especially in the form ''[[nigga]]''), but these efforts are controversial, and some people<!--add a ref here--> do not believe it is able to be reclaimed, due to its fraught history and continued derogatory usage. Usage by non-blacks is almost invariably highly offensive.
* "Nigger" has derogatory connotations, suggesting not only darkness of skin, but general lack of intelligence; it is furthermore associated with the era of white colonization of Africa and enslavement of Africans and African Americans.
* To blunt its force, the word is frequently censored in direct quotations or euphemistically referred to as the "[[n-word]]".

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|derogatory term for dark-skinned person}} [[blackie]], [[coon]], [[darkie]], [[gator bait]], [[groid]], [[jigaboo]], [[jungle bunny]], [[kaffir]], [[macaca]], [[nig-nog]], [[porch monkey]], [[sambo]], [[shitskin]], [[spade]], [[spearchucker]], [[spook]], [[tarbaby]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''nigger''}}
* [[antinigger]]
* [[chigger]]
* [[deniggerization]]
* [[deniggerize]]
* [[farm nigger]]
* [[house nigger]]
* [[n-bomb]]
* [[nig]]
* [[nigga]]
* [[niggerati]]
* [[niggeration]]
* [[niggerbabble]]
* [[niggerball]]
* [[niggerbitch]]
* [[niggercide]]
* [[niggerdick]]
* [[niggerdom]]
* [[niggerese]]
* [[niggeress]]
* [[niggerfaggot]]
* [[niggerfied]]
* [[Niggerfoot]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[niggerfucker]]
* [[niggerfuxated]]
* [[niggerfuxation]]
* [[nigger gallery]]
* [[niggergram]]
* [[niggerhead]]
* [[nigger heaven]]
* [[niggerhood]]
* [[nigger in the woodpile]]
* [[niggerish]]
* [[niggerism]]
* [[niggerization]]
* [[niggerize]]
* [[niggerless]]
* [[niggerlike]]
* [[niggerling]]
* [[niggerlips]]
* [[nigger lover]]
* [[niggerly]]
* [[niggerness]]
* [[nigger nose]]
* [[niggerology]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[nigger rich]]
* [[nigger rig]]
* [[nigger toe]]
* [[Niggertown]]
* [[Niggerville]]
* [[niggerwhine]]
* [[niggery]]
* [[niggy]]
* [[niglet]]
* [[nig-nog]]
* [[nikka]]
* [[nizzle]]
* [[n-word]]
* [[outnigger]]
* [[pizza nigger]]
* [[plantation nigger]]
* [[prairie nigger]]
* [[sand nigger]]
* [[spigger]]
* [[swigger]]
* [[timber nigger]]
* [[wigger]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|negro person}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|zezak}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|زِنْجِيّ|m}}, {{t|ar|زَنْج|m}}, {{t+|ar|أَسْوَد|m}}, {{t+|ar|عَبْد|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|նեգր}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|黑鬼|tr=hak1 gwai2|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|黑鬼|tr=hēiguǐ|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t|nan|烏鬼|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|乌鬼|tr=o͘-kúi|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|烏張飛|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|乌张飞|tr=o͘-tiuⁿ-hui|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|negr|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|nigger}}, {{t+|da|abekat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nikker|m}}, {{t+|nl|neger|m}}, {{t|nl|roetmop}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|nigrulaĉo}}
* Estonian: [[neeger]] {{qualifier|not offensive}}, [[pigi]] {{qualifier|offensive}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|neekeri}}, {{t+|fi|nekru}}, {{t+|fi|lakupekka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|nègre}}, {{t+|fr|négro|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ზანგი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Neger|m}}, {{t+|de|Negerin|f}}, {{t+|de|Nigger|m}}, {{t+|de|Bimbo|m}}, {{t+|de|Kaffer|m}}, {{t+|de|Kafferin|f}}, {{t+|de|Mohr|m}} (obsolete)
* Greek: {{t+|el|αράπης|m}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|nika}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|כושון|tr=kushon}}, {{t|he|כושי‎|tr=kúši|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|néger}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|negri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|negro}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ニガー|tr=nigā|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|黒いやつ|tr=kuroi yatsu|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|검둥이|tr=geomdungi|sc=Kore}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|maska}}, {{t|jbo|maska prenu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|црнец|m|tr=c'rnec|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|svarting}}, {{t|no|sotrør}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|غلام سیاه|tr=qolâm-siyâh|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|کاکا سیاه|tr=kâkâ-siyâh|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|murzyn|m}}, ''vulg.'' [[czarnuch]] {{g|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|preto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cioară|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|негрито́с|m}}, {{t+|ru|негрито́ска|f}}, {{t+|ru|чернома́зый|m}}, {{t|ru|чернома́зая|f}}, {{t+|ru|ни́ггер|m}}, {{t+|ru|чёрный|m}} (''note:'' {{t+|ru|негр|m}} and {{t+|ru|негритя́нка|f}} ''are neutral terms''), {{qualifier|offensive}} {{t+|ru|черножо́пый|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|neger|m}}, {{t|sk|negri|p}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|negro}}, {{t|es|mayate}} {{qualifier|Chicano slang}}, {{t+|es|negrillo|m}}, {{t|es|negrito|m}}, {{t|es|negrote|m}}, {{t|es|negraso|m}}, {{t|es|negro de mierda}}, {{t+|es|mono|m}}, {{t+|es|gorila|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|neger}}, {{t+|sv|nigger}}, {{t+|sv|svarting}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|zenci}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|שוואַרצע|tr=shvartze}}, {{t|yi|שוואַרצער|tr=shvartser}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[negro]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|dated|lang=en}} To clear land by laying light pieces of round timber across the trunks of the trees and setting fire to them at the point of contact, by which means the trees are slowly burned through.
#* '''1844''', J. W. Dunbar Moodie, ''The Ould Dhragoon; or, a visit to the beaver meadow'' Literary garland, Lovell & Gibson, volume 2, page 360:
#*: {{...}} he resorted to the practice of “'''niggering''',” as it is called: which is simply laying light pieces of round timber across the trunks of the trees and setting fire to them at the point of contact; by which means the trees are slowly burned through.
#* '''1914''', Indiana State Teachers Association. History Section, ''Readings in Indiana history'', Indiana University, page 171:
#*: The operation was this: they placed smaller logs and dry rubbish across the log and applied fire to them; this was called “'''niggering'''”.
#* '''1956''', Joseph Kirkland, ''Zury: the meanest man in Spring County: a novel of western life'', University of Illinois Press, pages xii and 40:
#*: Zury constructs a crude fence by '''niggering''' off the trees and dragging them into position.
#*: {{...}}
#*: All day long his axe rang through the frosty air as he felled saplings for the fence and stripped them from fuel for the “'''niggering'''” fires.
#* '''1980''', Elaine Hedges, William Hedges, ''Land and imagination: the rural dream in America'', Hayden Book Co., page 69:
#*: This means subduing and taming the forest itself—the central drama of ''The Fields''—performing the hard labor of hacking the trees and “'''niggering'''” and burning the butts in order to get to the rich black soil underneath.
# {{context|intransitive|offensive|lang=en}} To behave as a [[stereotypical]] black person.
#* '''1989''', Reynolds Price, ''The surface of earth'', Ballantine Books, page 120:
#*: His father said, “'''Niggering''', I was '''niggering''' about. You knew that surely.”
#* '''2007''', George Hovis, ''Vale of Humility: Plain Folk in Contemporary North Carolina Fiction'', Univ of South Carolina Press, page 86:
#*: Forrest’s rediscovery of his father coincides with his discovery that old Robinson’s “'''niggering''' around” produced at least one child of mixed race.
#* '''2008''', Joe Ambrose, ''Gimme Danger: The Story Of Iggy Pop'', Music Sales Group:
#*: I mean he was '''niggering'''. '''Niggering''' out, grabbing at my leg and microphone cord. I said, ‘Stop that you damn nigger!’ and that takes guts!
# {{context|uncommon|transitive|offensive|lang=en}} To treat as inferior.
#* '''1997''', Joe Frisch, [http://groups.google.com/group/uk.org.mensa/browse_thread/thread/2420648e02aeac55/aa686c688a878c0b?hl=en&q=niggered|niggering#aa686c688a878c0b Anglo-US relations under a Blair Government], uk.org.mensa, January 18
#*: The gated community is a powerful tool in the systematic and sustained '''niggering''' of local 3rd-world communities - namely, in the book, the Hispanic (mostly wetbacK{{sic}}) community
#* '''1999''', Jeff Welch, [http://groups.google.com/group/seattle.general/browse_thread/thread/1ff6fbddee753149/54cc84552990d630?hl=en&q=niggered|niggering#54cc84552990d630 Who is McGuyver and why was he "'''niggered'''?"], seattle,general, December 3
#*: > He is on TV saying that he was "abused" by the police and treated like a nigger.
#* '''2003''', Mob Attacks Palestinian Pollsters Who Told The Truth, soc.retirement, July 16
#*: Why would many Paletinians want to return to a land where they would be "'''niggered'''" for the benefit of the Israelis as the present Palestinian population is

===Anagrams===
* [[ginger#English|ginger]], [[Ginger#English|Ginger]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English ethnic slurs]]
[[Category:English offensive terms]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|da}} ''[[#English|nigger]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈneɡ̊ʌ]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|e}}

# {{context|vulgar|derogatory|offensive|rare|lang=da}} [[nigger]]; A dark-skinned person, especially a person of, or primarily of, Negro descent.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|dark-skinned, derogatory}} {{l|da|abekat}}
* {{sense|dark-skinned, now offensive}} {{l|da|neger}}
* {{sense|dark-skinned, neutral}} {{l|da|sort}}, {{l|da|farvet}}, {{l|da|afrikaner}}

----

==Norwegian==
{{wikipedia|lang=no}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|no}} ''[[#English|nigger]]''

===Noun===
{{head|no|noun|g=m}}

# {{context|vulgar|offensive|lang=no}} [[#English|nigger]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|no|svarting}}

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m4|nn-class=m1}}

----

==Swedish==
{{wikipedia|lang=sv}}

===Etymology===
Attested since 1888 according to ''Svenska Akademiens ordbok''. From {{etyl|en|sv}} ''[[#English|nigger]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈnɪɡːer/|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# {{context|vulgar|offensive|dated|lang=sv}} [[#English|nigger]], variant of [[neger]].

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-irreg-c|2=niggern|3=niggrer|4=niggrerna|6=niggerns|7=niggrers|8=niggrernas}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|sv|blatte}}
* {{l|sv|neger}}
* {{l|sv|svarting}}
* {{l|sv|svartskalle}}

[[da:nigger]]
[[de:nigger]]
[[et:nigger]]
[[el:nigger]]
[[eu:nigger]]
[[fa:nigger]]
[[fr:nigger]]
[[ko:nigger]]
[[hy:nigger]]
[[it:nigger]]
[[kn:nigger]]
[[ku:nigger]]
[[hu:nigger]]
[[mg:nigger]]
[[ml:nigger]]
[[my:nigger]]
[[ja:nigger]]
[[no:nigger]]
[[pl:nigger]]
[[ru:nigger]]
[[simple:nigger]]
[[fi:nigger]]
[[sv:nigger]]
[[ta:nigger]]
[[te:nigger]]
[[chr:nigger]]
[[vi:nigger]]
[[zh:nigger]]