{{also|Nil|níl|Níl|Nîl|-nil-|ni-l|NIL}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|nil|lang=la}}, a contraction of {{term|nihil|lang=la}}, {{term|nihilum||nothing|lang=la}}. See [[nihilism]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nɪl/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪl|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# [[nothing|Nothing]]; [[zero]].
#* '''1946''', {{w|Bertrand Russell}}, ''History of Western Philosophy'', I.19:
#*: As to Aristotle's influence on him, we are left free to conjecture whatever seems to us most plausible. For my part, I should suppose it '''''nil'''''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|nothing}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nul}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|כלום|tr=kloom|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|null}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|هیچ|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zero}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|nada|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ничто|n|tr=ničtó|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|ноль|m|tr=nol'|sc=Cyrl}} (zero)
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|neoni|m|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nada}}, {{t+|es|cero}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|noll}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Determiner===
{{en-det}}

# No, not any.
#* '''1982''', Gavin Lyall, ''Conduct of Major Maxim'', Hodder & Stoughton Ltd:
#*: But after two or three hours and '''nil''' results, you have to accept that the trail is cold and you can't justify that level of manpower.

====Related terms====
* [[nihilism]]

===See also===
* [[null]]
* [[nil desperandum]]

===Anagrams===
* [[Lin#English|Lin]], [[lin#English|lin]]

[[Category:English terms derived from Latin]]

----

==Golin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{term|nl|lang=gvf}}
* {{term|nĺ|lang=gvf}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[nɨ̆ĺ]|[nĺ]|[˩˧nɨ̆l]|lang=gvf}}

===Noun===
{{head|gvf|noun}}

# [[liquid]]; [[water]]
#: {{usex|Na '''nil''' ne dugudige.|translation=I swallowed water.|lang=gvf}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[Kulupe nil]]
* [[nil benke]]
* [[nil benke binan]]
* [[nil guli]]
* [[nil kabe]]
* [[nil kupa si]]
* [[Nilmanil]]
* [[nil pai]]
* [[nilwa]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nil/|lang=ia}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|ia|pronoun|indefinite}}

# [[nothing]]

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
{{clipping|nihil|lang=la}}, in turn from {{term|nihilum|lang=la}}, from {{term|ne-||not|lang=la}} + {{term|hilum||a hilum; a trifle, a bagatelle|lang=la}}, or unknown origin

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/niːl/|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{head|la|noun|head=nīl|[[indeclinable]]}}

# {{context|chiefly|poetic|lang=la}} [[nothing]]
#: ''Bene scripsisti de me, Thoma. Quam ergo mercedem accipies? '''Nil''' nisi te.''
#:: You have written well of me, Thomas. What reward therefore will you receive? Nothing unless it is you.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|la|nihil}}

[[Category:Latin irregular nouns]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|ni}}

----

==Tok Pisin==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|tpi}} {{term|needle|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{head|tpi|noun}}

# [[needle]]
# [[thorn]]
#* {{tpi-cite-bible|Gen|3|18|Ol rop i gat '''nil''' na ol gras nogut bai i kamap na karamapim gaden bilong yu.}}

{{LDL|tpi}}

[[de:nil]]
[[et:nil]]
[[es:nil]]
[[fr:nil]]
[[ko:nil]]
[[hy:nil]]
[[io:nil]]
[[it:nil]]
[[jv:nil]]
[[kn:nil]]
[[ku:nil]]
[[mg:nil]]
[[ml:nil]]
[[my:nil]]
[[fj:nil]]
[[nl:nil]]
[[ja:nil]]
[[uz:nil]]
[[pl:nil]]
[[ru:nil]]
[[simple:nil]]
[[sl:nil]]
[[fi:nil]]
[[ta:nil]]
[[te:nil]]
[[chr:nil]]
[[vi:nil]]
[[vo:nil]]
[[zh:nil]]