==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|illegitimi non carborundum}}
* illegitimis non carborundum
* nil illegitimi carborundum
* non illegitimi carborundum
* nil carborundum illegitimi
* nil sine illegitimi carborundum
* nolite te bastardes carborundum

===Etymology===
Humorous {{pseudo-loan|en|la|nocap=1}}, from {{m|la|noli||[[do]] [[not]] [[permit]]}} [singular] and {{m|la|illegitimi||[[bastard]]s}} [in the wrong grammatical case] and from the Latinate [[brand name]] {{m|en|Carborundum}} for a silicon carbide abrasive.

The phrase is similar to the real Latin phrase {{m|en|nil desperandum||do not [[despair]]|lit=nothing to be despaired of}}, which would be known to many English speakers. The ''-rundum'' ending of ''carborundum'' recalls the word {{m|la|desperandum}}, although such a [[:w:gerundive|gerundive]] suffix makes no sense for this phrase.

This form of the saying was popularized in English by the US general [[w:Joseph Stilwell|"Vinegar Joe" Stilwell]] during [[:w:World War II|World War II]], reputed to have been taught it by British army intelligence. It later became the motto for the 1964 [[:w:Republican Party (US)|Republican]] presidential nominee [[:w:Barry Goldwater|Barry Goldwater]], who displayed it as a sign in his senatorial office. The plural form ''nolite te bastardes carborundum'' was popularized by [[:w:Margaret Atwood|Margaret Atwood]]'s 1985 dystopian novel ''[[:w:The Handmaid's Tale|The Handmaid's Tale]]'' and its subsequent TV adaptation.

===Phrase===
{{head|en|phrase}}

# {{label|en|jocular}} [[don't|Don't]] [[let]] [[the]] [[bastard]]s [[grind]] [[you]] [[down]]

===References===
* Bradley, Laura, "[https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/05/handmaids-tale-nolite-te-bastardes-carborundorum-origin-margaret-atwood ''Handmaid's Tale'': The Strange History of 'Nolite Te Bastardes Carborundorum']", ''Vanity Fair'', 3 May 2017.
* Safire, William, ''Safire's New Political Dictionary: The Definitive Guide to the New Language of Politics'', Random House, New York, 1993. (R 320.03 Sa1)