{{also|non|nón}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|non|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|itc-ola|en}} {{term|noenu|lang=la}}, {{term|noenum|lang=la}}, from {{term|neoenum||not one|lang=la}}. See {{term|none|lang=en}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ˈnɒn/|lang=en}}

====Prefix====
{{en-prefix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Used in the sense of {{term|not|lang=en}}, to negate the meaning of the word to which it is prefixed.}}

=====Usage notes=====
* The prefix {{term||non-|lang=en}} may be joined to a word by means of a hyphen, which is standard in British usage. In many cases, especially in American usage, {{term||non-|lang=en}} is joined without a hyphen. (For example, {{term|nonbaseball|lang=en}} is relatively common, but {{term|noncricket|lang=en}} &mdash; referring to a primarily British sport &mdash; is rare.) Some {{term||non-|lang=en}} words rarely or never use a hyphen (such as {{term|nonentity|lang=en}}). By contrast, {{term|un-|lang=en}} is almost always spelled without a hyphen.
* Unlike {{term|un-|lang=en}}, {{term||non-|lang=en}} tends to suggest an absolute negation without the possibility of shades of comparison. For example, {{term||very [[unhelpful]]|lang=en}} is common, but {{term||very [[nonhelpful]]|lang=en}} is not.
* Meaning "not" in phrases taken from Latin and some other languages, {{term|non|lang=en}} is a separate word and is not hyphenated. Examples: [[non compos mentis]], [[persona non grata]].
* As {{term||non-|lang=en}} is a living prefix, the list of words having the prefix {{term||non-|lang=en}} is practically unlimited. It is particularly common in the sciences.
* {{term||Non-|lang=en}} may be attached to nouns, verbs, adjectives or adverbs to negate their meaning.

=====Derived terms=====
{{prefixsee|en}}

=====Related terms=====
{{rel-top4}}
* [[an-]]
* [[anti-]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[in-]]
* [[no]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[non]]
* [[none]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[not]]
* [[un-]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|not}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|nie-}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ոչ}}, {{t|hy|չ-}}, {{t|hy|ան-}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|不|tr=bù-|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|非|tr=fēi-|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|無|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|无|tr=wú-|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ne-}}, {{t|cs|mimo-}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|niet-}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ei-}}, {{t+|fi|epä-}}
* French: {{t+|fr|non-}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|nicht-}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μη}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|mí-}}, {{t|ga|neamh-}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|非|tr=hi-|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|不|tr=fu-|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|無|tr=mu-|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nie-}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|não|alt=não-}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|не|alt=не-}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|mì-}}, {{t|gd|neo-}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|icke-}}, {{t+|sv|o-}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|не|alt=не-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|nona||nine|lang=la}}.

====Pronunciation====
{{rfp|lang=en}}

====Prefix====
{{en-prefix}}

# {{form of|[[prevocalic]] form|nona-|lang=en}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[nonad]]
* [[nonet]]
* [[nonuplet]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/noːn/}}
* {{audio|Nl-non-.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Prefix===
{{head|nl|prefix}}

# {{context|hydrocarbon chain prefix|lang=nl}} [[#English|non-]]

====Derived terms====
{{prefixsee|nl}}

===See also===
* [[:Category:nl:Hydrocarbon chain prefixes]]

[[de:non-]]
[[es:non-]]
[[fr:non-]]
[[ko:non-]]
[[mg:non-]]
[[my:non-]]
[[nl:non-]]
[[ja:non-]]
[[pl:non-]]
[[pt:non-]]
[[ro:non-]]
[[fi:non-]]
[[tr:non-]]
[[zh:non-]]