{{also|None}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[non]] {{defdate|11th-17th c.}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|none|lang=enm}}, {{term|noon|lang=enm}}, {{term|non||not one|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|nan|nān|not one, not any, none|lang=ang}}, from {{term|ne||not|lang=ang}} + {{term|an|ān|one|lang=ang}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|nane||none|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|neen|lang=fy}} & {{term|gjin||no, none|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|neen|lang=nl}} & {{term|geen||no, none|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|nen|nēn|lang=nds}}, {{term|neen||none, no one|lang=nds}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|nein|lang=de}} & {{term|kein||no, none|lang=de}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|non|nōn|not|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/nʌn/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/nVn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-none.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{homophones|nun}}

===Determiner===
{{en-det}}

# Not any (one) {{term|of}} a given number or group of things. With singular or plural concord.
#* '''2006''', {{w|Clive James}}, ''North Face of Soho'', Picador 2007, p. 253:
#*: Alas, '''none''' of these people were writing the reviews.
# Not any person: [[no one]], [[nobody]] (with singular concord); no people (with plural concord).
# {{context|now|_|archaic|_|except|_|Scotland}} Not any; [[no]].
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Matthew XXV:
#*: the foles toke their lampes, but toke '''none''' oyle with them.
#* '''2008''', {{w|James Kelman}}, ''Kieron Smith, Boy'', Penguin 2009, p. 138:
#*: '''None''' lasses were in the dunces' row. If one had been there people would have looked at her and felt sorry but not boys.

====Usage notes====
Although uncountable nouns require ''none'' to be conjugated with a singular verb, ''e.g.'', ''None of this meat tastes right'', the pronoun can be either singular or plural in most other cases, ''e.g.'', ''Fifty people applied for the position, but none were accepted.'', and ''None was qualified''.

However, where the given or implied context is clearly singular or plural, then a matching verb makes better sense:
: '''''None''' of these men is my father.''
: '''''None''' of those options is the best one.''
: '''''None''' of these people are my parents.''

====Antonyms====
* [[some]]
* [[all]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not any person; no one, nobody}}
* Albanian: [[asnjë]], [[askush]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[لا احد]]}} {{IPAchar|(lā ’áħad)}}
* {{trreq|Cherokee}}
* Chinese: [[没有人]] (méiyǒu rén)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|žádný|m}}
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|nenčoin}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|niemand}}, {{t|nl|niet een}}
* {{trreq|eo}}
* {{trreq|et}}
* {{trreq|fo}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ei kukaan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|personne}}
* German: {{t+|de|niemand}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κανένας|m|tr=kanénas}}
* {{trreq|he}}
* Hungarian: [[egyik sem]], [[senki]]
* {{trreq|is}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: [[necuno]], [[nemo]]
* {{trreq|ga}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nessuno|m}}, {{t-|it|nessuna|f}}
* Japanese: [[誰も]]...[[ない]] (だれも...ない, daremo...nai)
* {{trreq|km}}
* Korean: [[아무도]]...[[않다]] (amudo...anta)
* Latin: {{t+|la|nemo}}
* {{trreq|lv}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|żaden|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ninguém}}
* {{trreq|Romanian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|никто|tr=niktó}}
* Scots: [[nane]]
* {{trreq|Scottish Gaelic}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|nuddu|m}}, {{t|scn|nudda|f}}
* {{trreq|sk}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nadie}}, {{t+|es|ninguno}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ingen}} , {{t-|sv|inte någon}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not any}}
* Albanian: [[asfare]], [[aspak]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[لا شئ]]}} {{IPAchar|(lā šæy’)}}
* {{trreq|Cherokee}}
* Chinese: [[没有]] (méiyǒu)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|žádný|m}}
* {{trreq|Danish}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geen}}, {{t+|nl|niemand}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* {{trreq|Estonian}}
* {{trreq|Faroese}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ei mikään}}
* French: {{t+|fr|aucun|m}}, {{t+|fr|aucune|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|keine}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κανένας|m|tr=kanénas}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* Hungarian: [[egyik sem]], [[semmi]],  {{t-|hu|semennyi}},  {{t-|hu|sehány}}
* {{trreq|Icelandic}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: [[necun]], [[nulle]]
* {{trreq|Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nessuno|m}}, {{t-|it|nessuna|f}}, {{t+|it|niente}}
* Japanese: [[どれにも]]...[[ない]] (dorenimo...nai)
* {{trreq|Khmer}}
* Korean: [[아무것도]]...[[아니다]] (amugeotdo...anida)
* {{trreq|Latvian}}
* Polish: [[żaden]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|nenhum|m}}, {{t+|pt|nenhuma|f}}
* {{trreq|Romanian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|никакой|tr=nikakój}}
* Scots: [[nane]]
* {{trreq|Scottish Gaelic}}
* {{trreq|Slovak}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ninguno}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ingen|c}}, {{t-|sv|inte någon}}, {{c}}, {{t+|sv|inget|n}}, {{t-|sv|inte något|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{pedialite|None (disambiguation)}}
* {{pedialite}}


===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# To no extent, in no way. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
#: ''I felt '''none''' the worse for my recent illness.''
# Not at all. {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
#: ''Now don't you worry '''none'''.''
# {{obsolete}} [[no|No]], [[not]]. {{defdate|14th-16th c.}}
#* '''c. 1390''', Geoffrey Chaucer, "The Shipman's Tale", ''Canterbury Tales'':
#*: And up into his contour-hous gooth he / To rekene with hymself, wel may be, / Of thilke yeer how that it with hym stood, / And how that he despended hadde his good, / And if that he encresses were or '''noon'''.

===Statistics===
* {{rank|suppose|else|entered|505|none|river|change|happy}}

===Anagrams===
* [[neon#English|neon]]

[[Category:English indefinite pronouns]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|nonen|noontje}}

Also spelled as '''noon'''.

# {{music|lang=nl}} An [[interval]] of 13 (''kleine none'') of 14 (''grote none'') [[halftone]]s.

===Anagrams===
* [[neon#Dutch|neon]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Adjective===
{{head|ia|adjective}}

# [[ninth]]

[[Category:ia:Ordinal numbers]]

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form|g=f|g2=p}}

# (''feminine plural form of [[nono#Italian|nono]]'') [[ninth]]

===Noun===
'''none''' {{f|p}}

# (''feminine plural form  of [[nono#Italian|nono]]'') [[ninth]] (''the one in the ninth position''; ''fraction'')

===Anagrams===
* [[neon#Italian|neon]]

[[Category:Italian plurals]]

----

==Latin==

===Numeral===
{{la-num-form|none}}

# {{inflection of|nonus|nonus|voc|m|s|lang=la}}

----

==Middle English==

===Noun===
{{enm-noun}}

# {{alternative form of|nonne|lang=enm}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|no}} {{term|la|nonus}}.

===Noun===
{{head|no|noun|g=m}}

# {{music|lang=no}} An [[interval]] of 13 (''liten none'') or 14 (''stor none'') [[halftone]]s.

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m1|nn-class=m1|stem=non}}

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{head|fro|noun form|g=f}}

# {{form of|Nominative singular|nonain|lang=fro}}

----

==Tarantino==

===Adjective===
{{head|roa-tar|adjective}}

# [[ninth]]

[[Category:roa-tar:Ordinal numbers]]

===Adverb===
{{head|roa-tar|adverb}}

# [[no]]

===See also===
* [[sìne]]

----

==Venetian==

===Noun===
'''none''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|nona|lang=vec}}

[[ast:none]]
[[de:none]]
[[et:none]]
[[es:none]]
[[fr:none]]
[[ko:none]]
[[hr:none]]
[[io:none]]
[[id:none]]
[[it:none]]
[[kn:none]]
[[kk:none]]
[[ku:none]]
[[lt:none]]
[[li:none]]
[[ln:none]]
[[hu:none]]
[[mg:none]]
[[ml:none]]
[[my:none]]
[[nl:none]]
[[ja:none]]
[[pl:none]]
[[pt:none]]
[[ru:none]]
[[simple:none]]
[[fi:none]]
[[sv:none]]
[[tl:none]]
[[ta:none]]
[[te:none]]
[[th:none]]
[[vi:none]]
[[zh:none]]