==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|north|er}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{q|noun, verb}} {{IPA|en|/ˈnɔː(ɹ)θə(ɹ)/}}
* {{q|adjective}} {{IPA|en|/ˈnɔː(ɹ)ðə(ɹ)/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A strong [[north wind]], a wind blowing from the north.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1882| title=Signal Service Notes - Issues 1-20 |author=| page=87| passage=Brisk winds from the south for several days in Texas are generally followed by a "'''norther'''."}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2010| title=Chasseur & St Lawrence |author=Barry Warburton | page=18| passage=Keep her going South-South East as fast as she'll take it, Shelby. It'll be a wet ride till we get outside the stream with this '''Norther'''.}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|blue norther}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To move or go toward the north<!-- (or to appear to, from a certain frame of reference)-->.
#* '''1893''' F. Adams, ''New Egypt'', page 86:
#*: The hills {{...}} run inland with a slight '''northering''' tendency.
#* '''1919''', ''Century Readings for a Course in American Literature'', page 870:
#*: But from one impulse, like a '''northering''' sun, / The innumerable outburst is begun, / And in that common sunlight all men know / A common ecstasy.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2008|author=Paul H. Fry|title=Wordsworth and the Poetry of What We Are|publisher=Yale University Press|isbn=9780300145410|page=15
|passage=One could also speak of a '''northering'''<!--moving north, where north is imagined to be cold--> of imagination, an attenuation, chilling, emptying out. But that sense of diminishment in going north may be mistaken,&nbsp;...}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2014|author=Colin Fletcher|title=River: One Man's Journey Down the Colorado, Source to Sea|publisher=Vintage|isbn=9780804152433
|passage=The map maintained that the mountains were those along whose far flank I&#39;d '''northered''' on foot, and one molar-tooth peak certainly looked like Squaretop.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2017|author=Vernor Vinge|title=The Zones of Thought Series: (A Fire Upon the Deep, The Children of the Sky, A Deepness in the Sky)|publisher=Macmillan|isbn=9780765399571
|passage="In that direction, we have a southbound breeze all the way to the ground." {{...}} The '''northering''' sun was peeking under the curve of the balloon. “We&#39;re coming at them from out of the sun.”}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2021|author=Brian Gingrich|title=The Pace of Fiction: Narrative Movement and the Novel|publisher=Oxford University Press|isbn=9780198858287|page=89
|passage=We follow Waverley in the reverse progress of his own private eastering, and (the eastering here technically a '''northering''') we make our way through&nbsp;{{...}}}}
# {{lb|en|of wind}} To blow from (closer to) the north, pushing ships (etc) towards the south; to have its apparent source shift northward.<!--check - see TR-->
#* '''1667''', record quoted in '''1940''', ''Publications of the Navy Records Society'', page 8:
#*: ''The 23 February 1667 Sunday.'' All the morning flat calm until after six. At the coming away of the ebb sprang up a small gale at W.N.W. and N.W. by W., that we stretched along the shore toward the Ness, S.W. course. The wind '''northered''' and came easterly, a small gale. We stayed for our boat until one, which we had sent to search 4 French shallops that assured lay there to lade wool.
#* '''1868''', ''Works of the Camden Society'', page 74:
#*: Att noone it came S. afterwardes westerly, and after sunnesett it '''northered''', and blew a verie stiffe gale; some raine.

===Adjective===
{{head|en|comparative adjective}}

# {{lb|en|now|chiefly|dialectal}} {{en-comparative of|north}}; [[northern]]
#* '''1931''' April 24, ''The Princeton Alumni Weekly'', volume XXI, number 28, page 700 (of the compiled volume 31):
#*: "Northest" of all
#*: There is something about Scandinavia that leads those who live there to stress the "northness" of their position [...] This gentleman, it will be remembered, claimed to live "'''norther'''" than any other man. [...] he placed chief emphasis on the fact that no man lived '''norther''' than he.
#* '''1989''', Willy Holtzman, ''San Antonio Sunset'', in ''The Best Short Plays, 1988-1989'' (ed. Ramon Delgado), page 342:
#*: Clerk: {{...}} And he come across this one salesman. From up north.
#*: Stone: North Texas?
#*: Clerk: '''Norther''' than that. Thought he said New York, but I could be mistaken.
#* '''2020''', Avro Mukerji, ''Few Urban Thoughts'', page 9:
#*: Nothing can be '''norther''' than the North Pole {{...}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|northerly}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ehnorrt|Thorner|horrent}}

[[Category:en:Wind]]