{{see|Note|noté}}
==English==

{{rank|fall|pass|doing|547|note|pay|red|unto}}

===Pronunciation===
*(''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{IPA|/nəʊt/}}, {{SAMPA|/n@Ut/}}
*(''[[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/noʊt/}}, {{SAMPA|/noUt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-note.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊt|-əʊt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[mark]] or [[token]] by which a thing may be known; a visible sign; a [[character]]; a distinctive mark or feature; a characteristic quality.
# A mark, or [[sign]], made to call attention, to point out something to notice, or the like; a sign, or token, proving or giving evidence.
# A brief [[remark]]; a marginal comment or explanation; hence, an [[annotation]] on a text or author; a [[comment]]; a critical,  explanatory, or illustrative observation.
# A brief piece of writing intended to assist the memory; a [[memorandum]]; a [[minute]].
# A short informal [[letter]]; a [[billet]].
# A diplomatic [[missive]] or written communication.
# A written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment; as, a [[promissory note]]; a note of hand; a negotiable note.
# A piece of paper [[money]]; a [[banknote]].
# {{music}} A character, variously formed, to indicate the length of a tone, and variously placed upon the staff to indicate its pitch.
# {{music}} A musical sound; a [[tone]]; an utterance; a tune.
# {{music}} A [[key]] of the piano or organ.
# [[Observation]]; [[notice]]; [[heed]].
# [[Reputation]]; [[distinction]]; as, a poet of note.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|visible sign}}
*Romanian: notă {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mark, or sign, made to call attention}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|marginal comment or explanation}}
*Czech: [[poznámka]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[huomio]], [[kommentaari]]
*[[Malayalam]]: [[കുറിപ്പ്]] (kuRippu)
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[تێبیبی]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: notă {{f}}, comentariu {{f}}
*Slovene: [[opomba]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|memorandum}}
*Czech: [[zápis]] {{m}}, [[zápisek]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[muistiinpano]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|short informal letter}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|diplomatic missive or written communication}}
*Czech: [[nóta]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[nootti]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[nota]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|piece of paper money; a banknote}}
*Czech: [[bankovka]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[bankovec]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|character indicating the length and pitch of a tone}}
*Czech: [[nota]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[nuotti]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[nota]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|musical sound}}
*Czech: [[nota]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[nuotti]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: notă {{f}}
*Slovene: [[nota]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|key of the piano or organ}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|observation}}
*Finnish: [[huomio]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[opazka]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|reputation; distinction; as, a poet of note}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[메모]], [[쪽지]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[noto]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Notiz]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[nota]] {{f}}, [[billete]] {{m}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|notes|noting|noted}}

# {{transitive}} To notice with care; to [[observe]]; to [[remark]]; to [[heed]]
# {{transitive}} To record in writing; to make a memorandum of.
# {{transitive}} To [[denote]]; to designate
# {{transitive}} To annotate
# {{transitive}} To set down in musical characters.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To notice with care}}
*Finnish: [[panna merkille]], [[huomata]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[opaziti]]
*Spanish: [[notar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To record in writing}}
*Finnish: [[merkitä muistiin]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[zapisati]]
*Spanish: [[anotar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To denote}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[denotar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To annotate}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[anotar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To set down in musical characters}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[메모를 적어 두다]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[notar]]

===Derived terms===
*[[of note]]

===Anagrams===
*[[tone]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Communication]]

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
'''note''' {{p}}

# {{feminine of|noto#Adjective|noto}}

===Noun===
'''note''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|nota|lang=Italian}}

[[Category:Italian adjective forms]]

[[ar:note]]
[[zh-min-nan:note]]
[[fa:note]]
[[fr:note]]
[[io:note]]
[[it:note]]
[[ku:note]]
[[hu:note]]
[[no:note]]
[[pl:note]]
[[ru:note]]
[[simple:note]]
[[fi:note]]
[[tl:note]]
[[ta:note]]
[[te:note]]
[[vi:note]]
[[tr:note]]
[[zh:note]]