{{wikipedia}}
{{also|NOW|nów}}
==English==

{{rank|only|like|little|77|now|then|A|should}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|nū|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|nu-}}, cognate with equivalents Dutch [[nu]], German [[nun]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/naʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/naU/}}
* {{audio|en-us-now.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-now.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
*: {{rhymes|aʊ}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[present|Present]]; [[current]].
#* '''1855''', Conrad Swackhamer, ''The United States democratic review'', Volume 5‎,
#*: The history of the infant colonies teaches us that the country comprised within the limits of the '''now''' United States of America was originally patented in the reign of James I., of England, into ''two portions:'' that in less than eighty years from that period, the same was again divided into ''twelve'' distinct provinces; a ''thirteenth'' being after added in the creation of the State of Georgia.
#* '''1908''', ''The English reports'',
#*: Where in assumpsit for money lent, the defendant pleaded that in an action in which the '''now''' defendant was plaintiff, and the '''now''' plaintiff was defendant, ...
#* '''2010''' March 17, ''The Telegraph'', news website, ''[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/tvandradio/bbc/7457761/Radio-4-apologises-for-day-old-shipping-forecast.html Radio 4 apologises for day old shipping forecast]'',
#*: Radio 4's continuity announcer said at the end of the show: "As many of you will have noticed, that edition of The Now Show wasn't very '''now'''. It was actually last week's programme. Our apologies for that." 
# {{informal}} [[fashionable|Fashionable]]; [[popular]].
#: ''I think this band's sound is very '''now'''.''

====See also====
* [[happening]]

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# At the present [[time]].
#: '''''Now''' I am six.''
# {{context|sentence}} {{non-gloss definition|Used to introduce a point, a remonstration or a rebuke.}}
#: '''''Now''', we all want what is best for our children.''
#: '''''Now''', stop that Jimmy!''
# [[differently|Differently]] from the immediate past; differently from a more remote past or a possible future; differently from all other times.
#: '''''Now''' I am ready.''
#: ''We all '''now''' want iPods for our children.''
#: ''We all want what is '''now''' best for our children.''
# Differently from the situation before a (stated or implied) event or change of circumstance.
#: '''''Now''' my whole life is different.''
#: '''''Now''' all the children have grown up and left, the house is very quiet.''
# At the time reached within a narration.
#: '''''Now''', he remembered why he had come.''
#: ''He '''now''' asked her whether she had made pudding.''
#: ''The pudding was '''now''' ready to be served.''
# In the context of urgency.
#: '''''Now''' listen, we must do something about this.''

====Derived terms====
* [[nowadays]]
* [[now and then]]
* [[right now]]
* [[now, now]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|At this time}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|tani|xs=Albanian}}, {{t-|sq|tash|xs=Albanian}}
* [[Anglo-Norman]]: {{tø|xno|ore}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[الآن]]}} (al-’ān, al-’āna), {{Arab|[[دلوقتي]]}} (dilwáqti) ''(colloquial)''
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հիմա|tr=hima}}, {{t-|hy|այժմ|tr=ayžm}}
* [[Basque]]: [[orain]]
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|sad}}
* [[Breton]]: [[bremañ]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[ara]]
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|ayi'ti}}
* Chinese: [[現在]], [[现在]] (xiànzài)
*: Cantonese: [[而家]] (yi4 ga1), [[現在]] (yin6 joi6)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|sad}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|teď}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|nu}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nu}}, [[heden]], [[op dit moment]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|nun|xs=Esperanto}}
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|ngayon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nyt}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maintenant}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ახლა|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|jetzt}}, {{t+|de|nun}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τώρα}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[ko'ág̃a]]
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|עכשיו|akhsháv}}, {{he-translation|כעת|ka`ét}}, {{he-translation|עתה|attá}}
* Hindi: [[अब]] (ab)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|most}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|nú}}, {{t+|is|núna}}
* Indonesian: [[saat ini]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[nunc]]
* Irish: {{t+|ga|anois|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|adesso}}, {{t+|it|ora}}
* Japanese: [[現在]] ([[げんざい]], genzai)
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|қазір|tr=qazir|sc=Cyrl|xs=Kazakh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[지금]] (jigeum)
* [[Kuna]]: [[emiskua]]
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[ئێستا]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[له‌م کاته‌]]}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|nunc}}
* Malay: [[sekarang]]
* Navajo: [[k'ad]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|nå}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[ara]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|nu|alt=nū|xs=Old English}}
* [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|ore}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|اکنون|tr=aknun|xs=Persian}},  {{t-|fa|الان|tr=alân|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|obecnie}}, {{t+|pl|teraz}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|agora}}, {{t+|pt|já}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acum}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сейчас|tr=sejčás}}, {{t+|ru|теперь|tr=tepér’}}
* [[Scots]]: [[noo#Scots|noo]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|a-nis|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|сад|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: [[sad#Serbian|sad]]
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|teraz}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zdaj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ahora}}, {{t+|es|ya}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|nu}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|ngayon|xs=Tagalog}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఇప్పుడు]] (ippuDu)
* Thai: {{Thai|[[เดี๋ยวนี้]]}} (dĭeow née)
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[ko'yr]]
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[اب]]}} (ab)
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|bây giờ|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|no|xs=West Frisian}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|איצט|xs=Yiddish}} (itst)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Differently from the immediate past}}
* Armenian: [[այժմ]] (ayžm)
* Dutch: nu dan
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|ngayon}}
* German: {{t+|de|jetzt}}, {{t+|de|nun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|anois|xs=Irish}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|agora}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|теперь|tr=tepér’}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|ngayon|xs=Tagalog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|In the context of urgency}}
* German: {{t+|de|jetzt}}, {{t+|de|nun}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|anois|xs=Irish}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|nå}}, {{t-|no|straks}}, {{t|no|med en gang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|agora}}, {{t+|pt|já}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|а сейчас|tr=a sejčás}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!-- {{trans-top|a way of introducing a sentence}} -- now split into senses 3 & 4
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|atëherë|xs=Albanian}} 3, {{t+|sq|4|xs=Albanian}}
* Armenian: [[այժմ]] (ayžm) 3,4
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nou}}, {{t+|nl|nu}} 3, {{t-|nl|4}}
* German: {{t+|de|nun}} 3, {{t+|de|4}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|עכשיו|akhsháv}} 3, {{t-|he|4}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|nú}}, {{t+|is|núna}} 3, {{t+|is|4}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|allora}} 3, {{t+|it|4}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|nå}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|agora}} 3, {{t+|pt|4}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|entonces}} 3, {{t-|es|4}}
-->

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[atëherë]] <!-- 3,4 -->
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[praegu]]
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: <!-- 3,4 -->  עכשיו
* {{ttbc|Icelandic}}: [[nú]] <!-- 3,4 -->
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[nun]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sekarang]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[ora]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[allora]] <!-- 3,4 -->
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[今]] ([[いま]], ima)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[ahorita]] ''(colloquial)'', [[bueno]], <!-- & 3,4 --> [[entonces]]

===Conjunction===
{{en-conj}}

# [[since]], [[because]], in light of the fact.
#: ''We can play football '''now''' that the rain has stopped.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|since, because}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[ف#Prefix|فـ-]]}} (fa-)
* Danish: {{t+|da|nu}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nu}}
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|ngayon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|τώρα που}} (tóra pou)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|nå som}}
* Portuguese: [[agora]] [[que]], [[já]] [[que]]
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|ngayon|xs=Tagalog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}!

# Indicates a [[signal]] to [[begin]].
#: ''Now! Fire all we've got while the enemy is in reach!

====Translations====
* Dutch: [[nu]]!

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|s}}

# {{uncountable}} The [[present]] time.
#: '''''Now''' is the right time.''
#: ''There is no better time than '''now'''.''
## {{often|with "the"}} The state of not paying [[attention]] to the future or the past.
##: ''She is living in the '''now'''.''
## {{countable|chiefly|in|_|phenomenology}} A particular [[instant]] in time, as perceived at that instant.
##* {{quote-book|##*|1982|Albert Hofstadter|The Basic Problems of Phenomenology|by=Martin Heidegger|pageurl=http://books.google.com/books?id=VmatHCLJ4Q4C&pg=PA249|page=249
|passage=Time is not thrust together and summed up out of '''nows''', but the reverse: with reference to the now we can articulate the stretching out of time always only in specific ways.}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|not paying attention to the future or past}} [[here and now]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the present time}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|nu|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|heden|n}}
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|ngayon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|Jetzt|n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|nu|n}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|ngayon|xs=Tagalog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[own]]
* [[won]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English temporal location adverbs]]
[[Category:Time]]

[[ar:now]]
[[zh-min-nan:now]]
[[co:now]]
[[dv:now]]
[[et:now]]
[[el:now]]
[[es:now]]
[[eo:now]]
[[fa:now]]
[[fr:now]]
[[gl:now]]
[[ko:now]]
[[io:now]]
[[it:now]]
[[kn:now]]
[[ka:now]]
[[kk:now]]
[[ku:now]]
[[lo:now]]
[[li:now]]
[[hu:now]]
[[ml:now]]
[[mn:now]]
[[nl:now]]
[[ja:now]]
[[no:now]]
[[oc:now]]
[[pl:now]]
[[pt:now]]
[[scn:now]]
[[simple:now]]
[[fi:now]]
[[sv:now]]
[[tl:now]]
[[ta:now]]
[[te:now]]
[[th:now]]
[[tr:now]]
[[uk:now]]
[[vi:now]]
[[zh:now]]