==English==

The history of the group lasted more than 9 years, that such a direction of musical creativity, as Rap, Russia has quite a serious time. During its existence the group has undergone many changes, both in quantitative and qualitative terms. Repeatedly changed the group that does not mean instability within the team. To avoid the frequently asked questions about the composition, we note that one of which is listed above is that NTL, who lives in your column today and while that is not going to change their place of residence:) But of course we remember and appreciate the contribution of those people who at various times took part in the life and development group. Naturally, over time, changed for the better sound tracks and semantic-oriented texts. We have matured and are very happy to the fact that the real fans of our creativity matured along with us, plus there is an infusion of young blood into the ranks of our esteemed listeners. 

Next in chronological order, briefly want to highlight the most significant and affecting the activities of the group dates and times: 

1999 to 2000. - Start. At this time, "NTL" - it only three letters and one man who wrote them - Jerr. 

2000 to 2003. - In the life of the group, in addition Jerr, some more, some less than the figure - Gans, San, Tina and Olven. People at that time shared a common view in many ways through which the band received its first fame and recognition. Tracks of NTL were distributed on the Internet at a breakneck pace. First in his native town, and then far beyond it, the portal hip-hop.ru and especially the music, which they carried. Associates decided not to rest on our laurels, and began to gain momentum. The fruit of the overall effort in 2003 to spawn debut album, "Exit". At one of the tracks first appeared Lil'Den, who later becomes a full member of NTL (But more about that later). Since the release of their first album and began changing the composition of the team. First, for personal reasons, left OLVEN (Before it went really TINA, but very little about it which is known, half-mythical character:) Jerr at this time has worked closely with Lil'Den'om and Djang'om (these two character with Jerr'om eventually form a new trio composition). That cooperation had or did not put on perfume old participants, or they have moved some other motives, but in general the end smoothly and silently they leave NTL, someone went into a solo voyage, some do not know where now, peace be upon them. While certainly they are still grateful to the group for much. 

2004 2005yy. - During this period, NTL in the new lineup wrote the second album "Step aside" released in autumn 2005 with the label "Parnas" and reissued the winter of 2006 at the Moscow label "Monolith". Album markedly different from the previous release, both musically and in poetic terms. The album appears Nervniy, robust design which adorned the album with his presence. Since 2004, the group tours extensively and has participated in various activities. In late 2005, the group leaves Djang. 

2006-2007. - Group prepares to release third album, whose release had not taken place. 

2007-2008. Group participated in the 8th official Batlle on hip-hop.ru The group now consists of Lil`Den and Jerr. November 2008, the group goes Lil'Den. As it turns out the group is informally DJ Tramplin, talented bitmeyker and MC, which Jerr sign a few years. Tramplin radically changed the style of the group on non-proliferation in Russia - grime. 

2009-2010 The third album is written in a two-man - JERR and DJ TRAMPLIN

[http://www.n-t-l.net Ntl Group site]