==English==
{{wp|Nullo (body modification)}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|null|o}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈnʌləʊ/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|card games}} A bid in which the bidder asserts that he or she will not take any tricks.
#* '''1914''', Robert Frederick Foster, ''Encyclopedia of Games: Including All the Indoor Games Played at the Present Day, [etc.].'', page 26:
#*: If the adversaries of a '''nullo''' revoke, the declarer can give them three of his tricks, or take 100 in honours as penalty. If he revokes, they take 100 penalty as usual. SUGGESTIONS FOR BIDDING. The dealer should never bid a '''nullo''' originally&nbsp;...
#* '''1916''', Florence Irwin, ''The Complete Auction Player'', page 375:
#*: It takes a better '''nullo''' hand to raise '''nullos''' than to bid them. Dummy shows. A player who has once been called off from '''nullos''' by his partner should never return to them.
# {{lb|en|neologism}} A person who has their [[genitals]] (and sometimes [[nipple]]s) surgically removed as a form of [[body modification]].
#* '''2014''', Sheila Jeffreys, ''Gender Hurts'' (page 70)
#*: This public presentation of the mutilation of the penis is not obviously very different from the forms of disassembly of the penis engaged in by male body modifiers – particularly '''nullos''' and transgenders – on the Body Modification Ezine website.

===See also===
* [[Skoptsy]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|it}} {{m|la|nūllus||no”, “none}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{it-IPA|nùllo}}
* {{hyph|it|nùl|lo}}

===Adjective===
{{it-adj|null}}
# {{lb|it|archaic|literary|chiefly in the singular}} [[no]], [[not]] [[any]] {{qualifier|determiner}}
#* '''1321''', [[w:Dante Alighieri|Dante Alighieri]], ''[[w:Inferno (Dante)|La divina commedia: Inferno]]'', Le Monnier (1994), Canto VII, p. 109, vv. 40-42:
#*: Ed elli a me: «Tutti quanti fuor guerci ¶ sì de la mente in la vita primaia, ¶ che con misura '''nullo''' spendio ferci. {{...}}»
#*:: And he to me: «All of them were asquint ¶ in intellect in the first life, so much ¶ that there with measure they '''no''' spending made. {{...}}»
# [[futile]], [[ineffectual]], [[vain]]
#: {{syn|it|futile|inefficace|inutile|vano}}
#* '''1353''', [[w:Giovanni Boccaccio|Giovanni Boccaccio]], ''[[w:The Decameron|Decamerone]]'', G. Pickering (1825), page [https://books.google.it/books?id=5IwNAAAAQAAJ&printsec=frontcover&hl=it&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q=era%20nullo&f=false 34], Giornata prima - Novella I:
#*: {{...}} i due fratelli fecero prestamente venire medici e fanti, che lo servissero, e ogni cosa opportuna alla sua santà racquistare. Ma ogni aiuto era '''nullo''' {{...}}
#*:: {{...}} the two brothers promptly fetched physicians and servants to tend him, and furnished him with all that behoved unto the recovery of his health. But every succour was '''vain''' {{...}}
# {{lb|it|mathematics}} [[null]]; equating [[zero]]
#: {{ux|it|La somma algebrica di due numeri opposti è '''nulla'''.|inline=1|t=The algebraic sum of two opposite numbers is '''null'''.}}
# {{lb|it|law}} [[null]], [[null and void]]
#: {{syn|it|illegittimo|invalido}}
#: {{ux|it|Il contratto è stato dichiarato '''nullo'''.|inline=1|t=The contract has been deemed '''null and void'''.}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|not any}} {{l|it|niuno}}, {{l|it|veruno}} {{qualifier|archaic}}; {{l|it|nessuno}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|it|pronoun|g=m|invariable}} {{tlb|it|obsolete|literary}}
# [[no one]], [[nobody]]
#* '''1321''', [[w:Dante Alighieri|Dante Alighieri]], ''[[w:Inferno (Dante)|La divina commedia: Inferno]]'', Le Monnier (1994), Canto V, p. 80, vv. 103-105:
#*: «{{...}} Amor, ch'a '''nullo''' amato amar perdona, ¶ mi prese del costui piacer sì forte, ¶ che, come vedi, ancor non m'abbandona. {{...}}»
#*:: «{{...}} Love, that exempts '''no one''' beloved from loving, ¶ seized me with pleasure of this man so strongly, ¶ that, as thou seest, it doth not yet desert me. {{...}}»

====Synonyms====
* {{l|it|niuno}}, {{l|it|veruno}} {{qualifier|archaic}}; {{l|it|nessuno}}

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|nūllō}}

# {{inflection of|la|nūllus||abl|m|s}}
# {{inflection of|la|nūllus||abl|n|s}}