{{also|call out|call-out}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{compound|en|call|out}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|En-au-callout.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|communication}} An outgoing telephone call.
# An instance of being summoned to visit a certain place in order to provide assistance; an instance of summoning someone who is [[on call]].
#: {{ux|en|I had to pay for the '''callout''' of the plumber after the pipe burst.}}
# {{lb|en|US}} A [[meeting]] or [[rally]] held in order to find interested [[participants]], e.g. for an activity or sports team.
#: {{ux|en|So many people attended the basketball '''callout''' that the coach decided to form two teams.}}
# {{lb|en|slang}} An invitation to [[fight]].
# {{lb|en|entertainment}} The unscripted act mentioning the name of a viewer or audience member when on stage, television, etc.
# {{lb|en|typography|graphic layout}} A [[pull quote]]: an [[excerpt]] from an [[article]] (such as in a news magazine) that is duplicated in a large font alongside the article so as to grab a reader's attention and indicate the article's topic.
# An [[annotation]] that pertains to a specific location in a body of text or a graphic, and that is visually linked to that location by a mark or a matching pair of marks.
# The act of [[call out|calling out]] from [[work]], i.e. announcing that one cannot attend; the act of calling in sick.
#* '''2015''', Pearley Rufus-Lusan, ''The Baby Boomer Nurse''
#*: On this particular day, I felt ill, mostly from exhaustion, and had to call out from work. This '''callout''' caused a stir and a display of animosity.
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} A form of verbal abuse with the intention to make the victim feel guilty.

====Derived terms====
* [[callout culture]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|outward bound telephone calls}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(slang)'' an invitation to fight}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|summons}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kiszállás}}, {{t+|hu|kihívás}}, {{t+|hu|hívás}}, {{t|hu|kivezénylés}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вы́зов}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|convocation|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=acllotu|Cotulla|outcall}}

[[Category:English phrasal nouns]]