{{also|Canadá|Ca-na-đa}}
==Canada==
Under the Sand: A Scientific Query
A Paper About the Geology of Sand and What Lies Beneath

	It is known that the sand on a beach is there because offshore mineral material has been eroded by the water and then brought on shore by either waves or currents, or more rarely, by a process referred to by experts as saltation. This process involves a solid being transported by a fluid (such as air or water). At low fluid velocities, loose material rolls downstream, staying in contact with the surface. This is called creep or reptation. Here the forces exerted by the fluid on the particle are only enough to roll the particle around the point of contact with the surface.
At higher speeds, the lift and moment exerted by the fluid on the particle is enough to pull it away from the surface and into the flow. Initially the particle moves quite rapidly compared to the flow and so has high lift, moving it away from the surface. As the particle moves into the faster flow away from the bed, the velocity difference between particle and flow decreases, so lift decreases. When the particle weight is greater than the lift force, the particle sinks back towards the surface. During its descent, the particle keeps some of the speed it picked up in the faster moving flow, and so returns to the surface at higher speed than the fluid near the surface. This gives the particle a parabolic trajectory through the fluid, which is the defining characteristic of saltation.
Depending on the surface, more loose material could be dislodged by the impacting particle, the particle might disintegrate on impact, or the particle could continue bouncing downstream. 
	The sand on a beach can be formed by a variety of materials. In a tropical setting, sand is comprised chiefly of quartz, usually subsided with particles of the shells of nearby mollusques. In more northern climates, the common sediment used to form sand is silica. In subtropical areas the beaches are usually littered with the bright white sand of eroded limestone. In certain volcanic regions, the sand is comprised mostly of eroded igneous rock such as feldspar, gypsum and basalt. Some southern European beaches have primarily quartz beaches with iron impurities, thus resulting in a deep yellow coloured sand.
	This, however, is not a study of sand, beaches or geology, but what lies underneath the sand. I intend to explain, through the written word what lies beneath the sand of beaches. To understand what lies beneath the sand of a beach, one must first learn what lies beneath the sand of other regions.
 The first example is a colloid hydrogel formed when water circulates underneath a granular material (such as sand) thus changing the granulity of the solid. The water lubricates the particles, thus causing the granular particles to lose friction with each other. This creates a substance that may appear solid from the outside, but behaves like a liquid when pressure is applied. This material is commonly referred to as ‘quicksand’. Due to the proximity beaches have to water it seemed potential to me, in the start that water could be what lies beneath the sand of a beach, however, since beaches do not cause those who walk on it to sink to their doom, this can not be the case. What is under the sand must be a solid material.
My next case to research is of course the other commonly thought of locale to find sand. The desert. Of course only 20% of Earth’s deserts actually contain a significant amount of sand. However when one thinks of deserts, sand is what jumps to mind. This is the basis of my motivation to study the sand of deserts. In most cases in a Sahara-esque desert that one commonly imagines, there is a top layer of extremely loose and very granular sand. This sand has been eroded into a very fine powder. The dryness of the desert allows it to remain shifting but the depth of this sand allows it to still support mass. Of course in the rare event of rain in one of these deserts, the sand is assaulted by moisture from only one direction and the water does not flow. Thus the sand remains bound together even tighter than in dryer conditions and one does not sink. Contrary to quicksand that I mentioned early where the shifting water beneath the sand lubricates the sediments. Under this fine top layer of sand there is more moist sand, similar to what you would find near the ocean at a beach. Underground moister creates more density in this sand, though it isn’t enough moisture, nor is the fluid source mobile enough to create a colloid hydrogel as in the case of quicksand. Beneath this relatively thick layer there is bedrock, which is of course the top layer of the earth’s crust. Beneath this is the molten upper mantle. This seems like a fairly reasonable and safe thing to assume is under a beach as well. Though the erosion may occur from different fluid source materials it would not change the composition of the sand to any great degree, especially considering the layer of more moist sand beneath the dry sands near the top of a desert. Though the wind that erodes desert sands could never cause the sand’s composition to become like that of quicksand, it is also unlikely that the erosion of the water on the shore could cause it either because the movements of the water are regular and not very erratic. This became my theorem going into my field experiment with beach sand. Of course I was quite surprised when I actually went to a beach and just dug.
I began my field test in the simplest manner; my control sand was of course that of a Saharan style desert. My theory was that it would be similar, if not the exact same. I began to dig through the sand with my trusty shovel, only to find that the hole I dug would only refill with sand over time. I should have foreseen a result like that as the dryer sand, located farther from the water is a very fluid composition that acts almost like a liquid when given the chance to flow and it quickly went into the hole I had dug due to the influence of gravity and wind. 
For my next test, I dug closer to the water. I remarked that when I dug down far enough, water rushed into the hole I had dug and occasionally refilled it with sand. Although sand is a good insulation against water it isn’t completely water tight and therefore takes several layers of sand before water can no longer penetrate. Another change of plans was clearly necessary.
For my final test and to conclude my field research, I rented a front end loader and hired someone to drive it for me. As he dug, I moistened the surrounding sand to condense it; this stopped it from rushing back into the hole I was digging. I expected us to penetrate the moist sand beneath in just a couple shovel loads. I assumed that the moist layer beneath the dry layer must be much more significant at a beach, so close to a water source flowing towards it than in a desert which rarely gets rainfall. However, as we dug, we just unearthed more and more dry sand. Using the same technique I mentioned above, we continued digging, determined to find what lay beneath this dry sand. After a few hours of digging some of the sand collapsed inward on me. But I didn’t feel its weight, I more so felt the weight of sand near my upper body despite the fact that it had been pointing downward at the time. I noticed the sand shifting in front of me and I felt its weight being taken off my head. A hand reached in and rescued me. I had been digging for hours, how could someone dig down that fast to rescue me? Especially in this dry, powdery sand? Nevertheless I grabbed my rescuer. When I surfaced, I did not recognize my surroundings. My rescuer had a different skin tone and his eyes were slimmer and his hair darker. I immediately realized that I had dug through to China.
 In conclusion, do not dig at a beach unless you want to pay for a one way international flight from China.

==Dutch==

===Proper noun===
'''Canada''' {{n}}

# [[#English|Canada]].

[[Category:Dutch proper nouns]]
[[Category:nl:Countries]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-Canada.ogg|audio}}

===Proper noun===
'''Canada''' {{f}}

# [[#English|Canada]]

====Derived terms====
* [[Canadien]]
* [[canadien]]

[[Category:fr:Countries]]

----

==Italian==
{{wikipedia|lang=it}}

===Proper noun===
'''Canada''' {{m}}

# [[#English|Canada]]

====Derived terms====
* [[canadese]]

[[Category:Italian proper nouns]]
[[Category:it:Countries]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
'''Canada'''

# [[#English|Canada]]

====Related terms====
* [[canadier]], [[kanadier]]
* [[canadisk]], [[kanadisk]]

[[Category:no:Countries]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[kanada]|lang=ro}}

===Proper noun===
{{infl|ro|proper noun|gender=f}}

# [[#English|Canada]]

====Declension====
{{ro-country|gend=f|Canadei}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ro|canadian}}

[[Category:ro:Countries]]

----

==Tatar==

===Proper noun===
'''Canada''' [http://www.azatliq.org/news/international/tb/archives/2005/07/06.asp]

# [[Canada#English|Canada]]

====Declension====
{{tt-latin-noun|nıñ|ga|nı|da|dan}}

[[Category:Countries]]
[[Category:Tatar proper nouns]]
[[Category:tt:Countries]]

[[da:Canada]]
[[de:Canada]]
[[et:Canada]]
[[el:Canada]]
[[es:Canada]]
[[eo:Canada]]
[[fr:Canada]]
[[fy:Canada]]
[[gl:Canada]]
[[ko:Canada]]
[[hi:Canada]]
[[io:Canada]]
[[id:Canada]]
[[iu:Canada]]
[[it:Canada]]
[[kk:Canada]]
[[ku:Canada]]
[[la:Canada]]
[[lt:Canada]]
[[hu:Canada]]
[[nl:Canada]]
[[ja:Canada]]
[[no:Canada]]
[[pl:Canada]]
[[pt:Canada]]
[[ru:Canada]]
[[fi:Canada]]
[[sv:Canada]]
[[tt:Canada]]
[[th:Canada]]
[[tr:Canada]]
[[zh:Canada]]