==English==

{{rank|following|fell|different|388|care|war|short|able}}

===Pronunciation===
* (''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{IPA|/kɛə/}}, {{SAMPA|/kE@/}}
* (''[[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/kɛɹ/}}, {{SAMPA|/kEr/}}
* {{audio|en-us-care.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛə(r)|-ɛə(r)]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[cearu]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# A concern or responsibility.
#:* '''Care''' should be taken when holding babies.
#:* I don't have a '''care''' in the world.
# The career/subject of looking after people.
# Not looked after by parents or foster parents (''in care'').

====Derived terms====
* [[Care Sunday]]
* [[caregiving]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|concern or responsibility}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|huoli}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|career/subject of looking after people}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hoitoala}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not looked after by parents or foster parents (''in care'')}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|huosta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{ttbc-top}}
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[péče]] {{f}} (''looking after people'')
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Sorge]] {{f}} (1), [[Pflege]] {{f}} (2,3),
{{ttbc-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: {{KUchar|[[ئاگا]]}}
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[cearu]] {{f}} (1)
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}: [[briga]], [[nega]], [[skrb]]
*{{ttbc|Slovenian}}: [[skrb]] {{f}} (1), [[briga]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Quotations====
* '''1925''': Walter Anthony and Tom Reed (titles), Rupert Julian (director), ''The Phantom of the Opera'', silent movie
*: ‘<!--sic-->Have a '''care''', Buquet—ghosts like not to be seen or talked about!’

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[carian]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cares|caring|cared}}

# {{intransitive}} To be concerned about, have an interest in.
#: ''I don't care what you think.''
# {{intransitive}} To look after.
#: ''Young children can learn to care for a pet.''
# {{intransitive}} To be mindful of.
# Polite or formal way to say [[want]].
#: ''Would you '''care''' for another cake?''
#: ''Would you '''care''' to dance?''

=====Usage notes=====
* Sense 4. Most commonly found as an [[interrogative]] or [[negative]] sentence.
* Sense 4. This is a [[catenative]] verb that takes the ''to infinitive''. See [[Appendix:English catenative verbs]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to be concerned about}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|välittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to look after}}
* Czech: [[pečovat]], [[starat se]]
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hoitaa}}, {{t|fi|huolehtia}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be mindful of}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|välittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to want, politely}}
* Finnish: [[tahtoa|tahtoisitko]] (''verb in conditional'')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[擔心]]/[[担心]], [[關心]]/[[关心]]<sup>1</sup>
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[sich]] [[interessieren]] (1), [[sich]] [[kümmern]] ([[um]]) (2), [[sorgen]] ([[für]]) (2)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[rawat|merawat]], [[asuh|mengasuh]], [[bina|membina]], [[peduli]], [[perduli]], [[acuh]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[世話]]をする ([[せわ]]をする, sewa wo suru), [[面倒見る]] ([[めんどうみる]], mendō-miru)
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: {{KUchar|[[گوێ]]}}, {{KUchar|[[گوێدان]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[carian]] (1)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[păsa]]
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}: [[skrbiti]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[skrbeti]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[để ý]] (đến) (1, 3), [[nuôi]] (2), [[thương]] (in a loving sense)
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English abstract nouns]]

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
'''care''' {{f}} {{p}}

# (''feminine plural form of [[caro]]'') [[dear]] (''beloved; expensive; in salutation of a letter'')

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
{{L.|ro}} ''[[qualis]]''

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[ˈkare]|lang=ro}}

===Determiner===
{{infl|ro|determiner}}

# [[which]]

====Inflection====
{{rfc|template needed}}
{| style="background:#F0F0F0;text-align:center"

|-
! rowspan=3 style="height:4em;width:6em;background:#b0bed3" | Nom/Acc
! colspan=3 style="background:#b0bed3" | all numbers
|-
! colspan=3 style="background:#c0cfe4" | all genders
|-
| colspan=3 | care

|-
! rowspan=3 style="height:4em;background:#b0bed3" | Gen/Dat
! colspan="2" style="background:#b0bed3" | singular
! style="background:#b0bed3" | plural
|-
! style="width:10em;background:#c0cfe4" | masculine & neuter
! style="width:10em;background:#c0cfe4" | feminine
! style="width:10em;background:#c0cfe4" | all genders
|-
| cărui
| cărei
| căror
|}

[[ang:care]]
[[ar:care]]
[[de:care]]
[[fa:care]]
[[fr:care]]
[[hy:care]]
[[io:care]]
[[it:care]]
[[ku:care]]
[[li:care]]
[[hu:care]]
[[ja:care]]
[[pt:care]]
[[ru:care]]
[[simple:care]]
[[fi:care]]
[[ta:care]]
[[te:care]]
[[vi:care]]
[[uk:care]]
[[zh:care]]