{{see|cåsĕ}}
{{wikipedia|dab=case}}
==English==

{{rank|hear|least|person|312|case|fact|known|thee}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{ME.}} '''[[cas]]''' < Old English '''[[cas]](us)''' (noun case) < Old French '''[[cas]]''' (an event) < Latin '''[[casus]]''' (a falling, a fall; accident, event, occurrence; occasion, opportunity; noun case), perfect passive participle of '''[[cadere]]''' (to fall, sink, drop) < Proto-Indo-European base *'''kad-''' (to fall).

{{rfc-level|check placement of Pronunciation}}

====Pronunciation====
*{{IPA|/keɪs/}}, {{SAMPA|/keIs/}}
*{{audio|en-us-case.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪs|-eɪs]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{law}} A legal proceeding, [[lawsuit]].
# One of several similar instances or events which are being studied and compared.
# {{grammar}}: An instance of grammatical case; a category of nouns, pronouns, or adjectives, specialized (usually by [[inflection]]) to indicate a particular syntactic relation to other words in a sentence.
#: ''The ''[[accusative case]]'' canonically indicates a [[direct object]].''
#: ''Latin has six cases, and remnants of a seventh.''
# {{grammar}} {{uncountable}} A set of grammatical cases or their meanings in a particular language collectively.
#: ''Jane has been studying case in Caucasian languages.''
#: ''Latin is a language that employs case.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|A legal proceeding}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[دعوى|دَعْوَى]]}} {{unicode|(dáʕwa)}} {{m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|případ|m}}
* Finnish: [[oikeusjuttu]]
* French: {{t+|fr|cause|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fall|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|υπόθεση|f|sc=Grek}} (ypóthesi)
* Hebrew: [[תיק]] (tyq) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|causa|f}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|causa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|causa|f}}
* Russian: [[судебное дело]] (sudébnoje délo) {{n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|primer|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|causa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fall|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|One of several similar instances or events which are being studied and compared}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حالات|حَالاَتٌ]]}} {{unicode|(ħaláːt)}} {{p}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|případ|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tapaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cas|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fall|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|περίπτωση|f|sc=Grek}} (períptosi)
* Hebrew: [[מקרה]] (miqre) {{m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|caso|m}}
* Japanese: [[事件]] ([[じけん]], jíken)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[경우]] (gyeong-u)
* Latin: {{t-|la|casus|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caso|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|случай|m|tr=slúčaj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|primer|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caso|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fall}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An instance of grammatical case}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حالات|حَالاَتٌ]]}} {{unicode|(ħaláːt)}} {{p}}
* Belarusian: [[склон]] (sklon) {{m}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|padež|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|падеж|m|tr=padéž|sc=Cyrl}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|padež|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pád|m}}
* Danish: [[fald]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|naamval|m}}, {{t-|nl|casus|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sijamuoto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cas|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kasus|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|πτώση|f|sc=Grek}} (ptósi)
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[יחסה]] (yakhasah) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|eset}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|caso|m}}
* Japanese: [[格]] ([[かく]], kakú)
* Korean: [[격]] (gyeok)
* Latin: {{t-|la|casus|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caso|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|падеж|m|tr=padéž|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[падеж]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[padež]] {{m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|pád|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|sklon|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caso|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kasus|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A set of grammatical cases or their meanings in a particular language collectively}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cas|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|fall|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caso|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[دعاوى|دَعَاوَى]]}} {{unicode|(daʕáːwa)}} {{p}}, {{ARchar|[[حالة|حَالَةٌ]]}} {{unicode|(ħáːla)}} {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[Appendix:Grammatical cases]]

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English '''[[cas]]''' < Old North French '''[[casse]]''', Old French '''[[chasse]]''' (box, chest, case) < Latin '''[[capsa]]''' (box, bookcase), from '''[[capere]]''' (to take, seize, hold).

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A box that contains or can contain a number of identical items of manufacture.
# A piece of luggage that can be used to transport an apparatus such as a [[sewing machine]].
# A [[suitcase]].
# A piece of furniture, constructed partially of transparent glass or plastic, within which items can be displayed.
# The outer covering or framework of a piece of apparatus such as a [[computer]].
# In typography, the nature of a piece of alphabetic type, whether a “capital” ([[upper case]]) or “small” ([[lower case]]) letter.
# {{context|poker slang}} [[four of a kind]]

=====Related terms=====
*[[case harden]]
*[[hard case]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|A box that contains or can contain a number of identical items of manufacture}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[علب|عُلَب]]}} {{unicode|(ʕúlab)}} {{p}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сандък|m|tr=sandək|sc=Cyrl}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|sanduk|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bedna|f}}
* Danish: [[kasse]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kist|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pakkaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|écrin|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kiste|f}}
* Greek: [[κιβώτιον]] (kivótion) {{n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|láda}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cassetta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[箱]] ([[はこ]], hakó)
* Korean: [[상자]] (sangja)
* Norwegian: [[kiste]]
* Polish: [[skrzynia]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caixa|f}}
* Romanian: [[ladă]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ящик|m|tr=jáščik|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|сандук|m|tr=sanduk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: [[debna]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caja|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lår|c}}, {{t+|sv|låda|c}}
* Ukrainian: [[скриня]] (skrynja) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A piece of luggage that can be used to transport an apparatus}}
* Czech: [[pouzdro]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laukku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Koffer|m}}
* Russian: [[ящик]] (jáščik) {{m}}, [[кофр]] (kofr) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A suitcase}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laukku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Koffer|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|maleta|f}}, {{t+|pt|mala|f}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|чемодан|m|tr=čemodán|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A piece of furniture, constructed partially of transparent glass or plastic}}
* Finnish: [[vitriini]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vitrine|f}}
* Portuguese: [[vitrine]] {{f}}, [[mostruário]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|витрина|f|tr=vitrína|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The outer covering or framework of a piece of apparatus}}
* Finnish: [[kotelo]]
* German: {{t+|de|Gehäuse|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caixa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кожух|m|tr=kóžuχ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|In typography, the nature of a piece of alphabetic type}}
* Finnish: [[isot kirjaimet]] ([[versaali]]) {{italbrac|uppercase}}, [[pienet kirjaimet]] ([[gemena]]) {{italbrac|lowercase}}
* French: {{t+|fr|casse|f}}
* German: [[Schriftkasten]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caixa|f}}
* Russian: [[наборная касса]] (nabórnaja kássa) {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[علبة|عُلْبَةٌ]]}} {{unicode|(ʕúlba)}} {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Kasten]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[sandık]]

=====References=====

*Weisenberg, Michael (2000) ''[http://www.poker1.com/mcu/pokerdictionary/mculib_dictionary_info.asp The Official Dictionary of Poker].''  MGI/Mike Caro University.  ISBN 978-1880069523

====Adjective====
'''case'''

# {{context|poker slang}} The last remaining card of a particular rank
#: ''He drew the '''case''' eight!''

=====References=====

*Weisenberg, Michael (2000) ''[http://www.poker1.com/mcu/pokerdictionary/mculib_dictionary_info.asp The Official Dictionary of Poker].''  MGI/Mike Caro University.  ISBN 978-1880069523

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cas|ing}}

# {{transitive}}: To place (an item or items of manufacture) into a [[box]], as in preparation for shipment.
# {{transitive}}, {{colloquial}}: To [[survey]] (a building or other location) surreptitiously, as in preparation for a robbery.
#*'''''case''' the joint''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To place (an item or items of manufacture) into a box}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pakata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|einpacken}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To survey (a building or other location) surreptitiously}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[aces]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''case''' {{f}} {{p}}

# {{italbrac|plural of [[casa#Italian|casa]]}} [[house]]s

----

==Romanian==

===Noun===
'''case''' {{f}} {{p}}

# {{italbrac|plural of [[casă]]}} [[house]]s

[[Category:Containers]]

[[ar:case]]
[[de:case]]
[[et:case]]
[[fr:case]]
[[hy:case]]
[[io:case]]
[[it:case]]
[[ku:case]]
[[hu:case]]
[[ml:case]]
[[ja:case]]
[[pl:case]]
[[pt:case]]
[[ru:case]]
[[simple:case]]
[[fi:case]]
[[te:case]]
[[vi:case]]
[[tr:case]]
[[zh:case]]