{{also|čast|část}}
==English==
{{slim-wikipedia|dab=cast}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|casten|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|non|en}} {{term|kasta||to throw, cast, overturn|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*kastōną||to throw, cast}}, of unknown origin. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|cast||to cast, throw|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|kaste||to throw|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|kasta||to throw, cast, fling, toss, discard|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|kasta||to pitch, toss|lang=is}}. It displaced native {{term|warp|lang=en}}; and has in literal senses itself been generally displaced by {{term|throw|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}: {{enPR|käst}}, {{IPA|/kɑːst/}}
* {{a|US}}: {{enPR|kăst}}, {{IPA|/kæst/}}
* {{audio|en-us-cast.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːst}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|caste|karst}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|casts|casting|cast}}

# {{context|now|_|somewhat|_|literary|lang=en}} To [[throw]]. {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
#* '''1623''', William Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona'':
#*: Why then a Ladder quaintly made of Cords / To '''cast''' vp, with a paire of anchoring hookes, / Would serue to scale another Hero's towre [...].
#* '''1760''', Lawrence Sterne, ''The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy'', 262:
#*: The more, an' please your honour, the pity, said the Corporal; in uttering which, he '''cast''' his spade into the wheelbarrow [...].
# To [[direct]] (one's eyes, gaze etc.). {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
#* '''1595''', William Shakespeare, ''Henry VI, part 3'':
#*: To whom do Lyons '''cast''' their gentle Lookes? Not to the Beast, that would vsurpe their Den.
#* '''1813''', Jane Austen, ''Pride and Prejudice'', I.11:
#*: She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and '''cast''' her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement [...].
# To throw forward (a [[fishing line]], [[net]] etc.) into the sea. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1526''', ''Bible'', tr. William Tyndale, Matthew 4:
#*: As Jesus walked by the see off Galile, he sawe two brethren: Simon which was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, '''castynge''' a neet into the see (for they were fisshers) [...].
# To [[add up]] (a [[column]] of [[figures]], accounts etc.); cross-cast refers to adding up a row of figures. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1594''', William Shakespeare, ''Henry VI, part 2'':
#*: The Clearke of Chartam: hee can write and / reade, and '''cast''' accompt.
#* '''1603''', {{w|John Florio}}, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', II.17:
#*: I cannot yet '''cast''' account either with penne or Counters.
#* '''1719''' [[w:Daniel Defoe|Daniel Defoe]], ''[[w:Robinson Crusoe|Robinson Crusoe]]''
#*: I '''cast''' up the notches on my post, and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days.
# {{context|astrology|lang=en}} To [[calculate]] the astrological value of (a horoscope, birth etc.). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1621''', {{w|Robert Burton}}, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', vol. 1, New York Review Books 2001, p. 309:
#*: he is [...] a perfect astrologer, that can '''cast''' the rise and fall of others, and mark their errant motions to his own use.
#* '''1971''', {{w|Keith Thomas (historian)|Keith Thomas}}, ''Religion and the Decline of Magic'', Folio Society 2012, p. 332:
#*: John Gadbury confessed that Mrs Cellier, ‘the Popish Midwife’, had asked him to '''cast''' the King's nativity, although the astrology claimed to have refused to do so.
#* '''1985''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''Quinx'', Faber & Faber 2004 {{qualifier|Avignon Quintet}}, p. 1197:
#*: He did the washing up and stayed behind to watch the dinner cook while she hopped off with a friend to have her horoscope '''cast''' by another friend.
# To perform, bring forth (a magical spell or enchantment).
# To [[throw]] (light etc.) on or upon something, or in a given direction.
#* '''1950''', "A Global View", ''Time'', 24 Apr 1950:
#*: The threat of Russian barbarism sweeping over the free world will '''cast''' its ominous shadow over us for many, many years..
#* '''1960''', Lawrence Durrell, ''Clea'':
#*: A sudden thought '''cast''' a gloom over his countenance.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[plan]], [[intend]]. {{defdate|14th-19th c.}}
#* '''1485''', Sir Thomas Malory, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book VII.2:
#*: "Fayre damesell, I thanke you hartely," seyde Sir Launcelot, "but truly," seyde he, "I '''caste''' me never to be wedded man."
#* '''1590''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', II.i:
#*: I wrapt my selfe in Palmers weed, / And '''cast''' to seeke him forth through daunger and great dreed.
#* Sir W. Temple
#*: The cloister {{...}} had, I doubt not, been '''cast''' for [an orange-house].
# {{context|obsolete|_|except in set phrases|lang=en}} To [[remove]], [[take off]] (clothes). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1822''', "Life of Donald McBane", ''Blackwood's Magazine'', vol. 12, p. 745:
#*: when the serjeant saw me, he '''cast''' his coat and put it on me, and they carried me on their shoulders to a village where the wounded were and our surgeons {{...}}
#* '''2002''', Jess Cartner-Morley, "How to Wear Clothes", ''The Guardian'', 2 Mar 02:
#*: You know the saying, "Ne'er '''cast''' a clout till May is out"? Well, personally, I'm bored of my winter clothes by March.
# Specifically, to [[throw]] down or [[aside]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Spenser Faerie Queene}}, II.xii:
#*: So she to Guyon offred it to tast; / Who taking it out of her tender hond, / The cup to ground did violently '''cast''', / That all in peeces it was broken fond {{...}}
#* '''1611''', ''The Bible'', Authorized Version, Matthew VI.30:
#*: it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be '''cast''' into hell.
#* '''1930''', "Sidar the Madman", ''Time'', 19 Dec 1930:
#*: Near Puerto Limon, Costa Rica, Madman, co-pilot and plane were caught in a storm, '''cast''' into the Caribbean, drowned.
#* '''2009''', Hilary Mantel, ''Wolf Hall'', Fourth Estate 2010, p. 316:
#*: Her bow is not to her liking. In a temper, she '''casts''' it on the grass.
# {{context|of an animal|lang=en}} To throw off (the [[skin]]) as a process of growth; to [[shed]] the [[hair]] or [[fur]] of the [[coat]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} To give birth to (a child) [[prematurely]]; to [[miscarry]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1603''', John Florio, translating Michel de Montaigne, Folio Society 2006, vol. 1 p. 98:
#*: being with childe, they may without feare of accusation, spoyle and '''cast''' {{transterm|avorter|lang=frm}} their children, with certaine medicaments, which they have only for that purpose.
#* '''1646''', Sir Thomas Browne, ''Pseudodoxia Epidemica'', V.20:
#*: The abortion of a woman they describe by an horse kicking a wolf; because a mare will '''cast''' her foal if she tread in the track of that animal.
# To shape (molten metal etc.) by [[pour]]ing into a [[mould]]; to make (an object) in such a way. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1923''', "Rodin's Death", ''Time'', 24 Mar 1923:
#*: One copy of the magnificent caveman, The Thinker, of which Rodin '''cast''' several examples in bronze, is seated now in front of the Detroit Museum of Art, where it was placed last autumn.
# To [[twist]] or [[warp]] (of fabric, timber etc.). {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* Moxon
#*: Stuff is said to '''cast''' or warp when {{...}} it alters its flatness or straightness.
# To [[assign]] a [[role]] in a [[play]] or [[performance]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''The director '''cast''' the part carefully.''
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To bring the [[bow]]s of a [[sailing ship]] on to the required [[tack]] just as the [[anchor]] is [[weighed]] by use of the [[headsail]]; to bring (a ship) round. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
# To [[deposit]] (a ballot or voting paper); to formally register (one's vote). {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} To [[change]] a [[variable]] [[type]] from, for example, [[integer]] to [[real]], or integer to text. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: '''''Casting''' is generally an indication of bad design.''
# {{context|hunting|lang=en}} Of dogs, hunters: to [[spread out]] and [[search]] for a [[scent]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#* '''1955''', William Golding, ''The Inheritors'', Faber and Faber 2005, p. 50:
#*: He clambered on to an apron of rock that held its area out to the sun and began to '''cast''' across it. The direction of the wind changed and the scent touched him again.
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To [[heave]] the [[lead]] and [[line]] in order to [[ascertain]] the [[depth]] of [[water]].
# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} To [[set]] (a bone etc.) in a cast.
{{rfex|some are still missing examples}}
# {{context|Wicca|lang=en}} To open a [[circle]] in order to begin a [[spell]] or meeting of [[witch]]es
# To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan.
#: ''to '''cast''' about for reasons''
#* Bible, Luke i. 29
#*: She {{...}} '''cast''' in her mind what manner of salutation this should be.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[vomit]].
#* Ben Jonson
#*: These verses {{...}} make me ready to '''cast'''.
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} To throw up, as a mound, or rampart.
#* Bible, Luke xix. 48
#*: Thine enemies shall '''cast''' a trench [bank] about thee.
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} To throw out or emit; to [[exhale]].
#* Woodward
#*: This {{...}} '''casts''' a sulphureous smell.
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} To impose; to bestow; to rest.
#* Shakespeare
#*: The government I '''cast''' upon my brother.
#* Bible, Psalms iv. 22
#*: '''Cast''' thy burden upon the Lord.
# {{cx|archaic|lang=en}} To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict.
#: ''to be '''cast''' in damages''
#* Jeffrey
#*: She was '''cast''' to be hanged.
#* Dr. H. More
#*: Were the case referred to any competent judge, they would inevitably be '''cast'''.
# To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make [[preponderate]]; to decide.
#: ''a '''casting''' voice''
#* South
#*: How much interest '''casts''' the balance in cases dubious!
# {{cx|printing|dated|lang=en}} To [[stereotype]] or [[electrotype]].

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[cast away]]
* [[casting call]]
* [[casting couch]]
* [[casting director]]
* [[cast iron]]
* [[cast off]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[cast on]]
* [[the die is cast]]
* [[cast the first stone]]
* [[continuous casting]]
* [[cross-cast]]
* [[ne'er cast a clout til May be out]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to throw forcefully}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|صب|tr=Sábba|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|رمى|tr=rámmaa|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|նետել|tr=netel|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|շպրտել|tr=šprtel|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хвърлям|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|мятам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|拋|抛|pāo}}, {{t+|cmn|投|tr=tóu|sc=Hani}}, {{zh-tsp|鑄|铸|zhù}}, {{t+|cmn|扔|tr=rēng|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kaste}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|werpen}}, {{t+|nl|gooien}}, {{qualifier|Flemish}} {{t+|nl|smijten}}
* Faroese: {{t+|fo|kasta}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|paiskata}}, {{t+|fi|heittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jeter}}
* German: {{t+|de|werfen}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kasta}}, {{t+|is|varpa}}, {{t+|is|fleygja}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|投じる|tr=tōjiru}}, {{t+|ja|投げる|tr=nageru}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kaste}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arremessar}}, {{t+|pt|tacar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бросать|tr=brosát’|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|кидать|tr=kidát’|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|швырять|tr=švyrját’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kasta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to direct one's eyes}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|katsoa}}, {{t+|fi|katsella}}, {{t|fi|[[suunnata]] [[katseen|katseensa]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|diriger}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw a fishing line or net into the water}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|գցել|tr=gc'el|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|мятам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|投（钓鱼线）|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|抛（钓鱼钩）|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|撒（渔网）|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|uitgooien}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}} ([[verkko]], [[viehe]], [[pyydys]], [[siima]] etc.), {{t+|fi|laskea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lancer}}
* Italian: {{t|it|gettare}}, {{t+|it|lanciare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lançar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to add up a column of figures}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laskea yhteen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|additionner}}, {{t+|fr|sommer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|astrology: to calculate the astrological value of}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laatia}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform, bring forth a magical spell or enchantment}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lukea}} ([[loitsu]]), {{t+|fi|langettaa}} ([[kirous]]), {{t|fi|taikoa}}, {{t+|fi|loitsia}}, {{t|fi|loihtia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jeter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw on or upon something, or in a given direction}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}}, {{t+|fi|langettaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to plan, intend to do something}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aikoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to remove, take off clothes}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riisua}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw down or aside}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|նետել|tr=netel|sc=Armn}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|werpen}}, {{t|nl|neergooien}}, {{t+|nl|afweren}}, {{t+|nl|afwerpen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}}, {{t+|fi|heittää menemään}}, {{t|fi|[[heittää]] [[pois]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|wegwerfen}}, {{t|de|hinwerfen}}
* Italian: {{t|it|gettare}}, {{t+|it|lanciare}}, {{qualifier|dice}} {{t+|it|tirare}}, {{qualifier|light, shadow}} {{t|it|gettare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw off the skin, shell etc.; to shed the hair or fur}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luoda}} ([[nahka|nahkansa]], [[kuori|kuorensa]] etc.), {{t|fi|[[pudottaa]] [[karva|karvansa]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|muer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to give birth prematurely}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[saada]] [[keskenmeno]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make by pouring into a mould}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ձուլել|tr=julel|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отливам|tr=otlivam|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|铸造|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|lít}}, {{t|cs|odlít}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gieten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couler}}, {{t+|fr|fondre}}
* German: {{t+|de|gießen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{qualifier|plaster}} {{t|it|colare}}, {{t+|it|fondere}}, {{qualifier|metal}} {{t|it|gettare}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|داڕشتن|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|støpe}}, {{t|no|støype}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|støype}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|moldar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|hich'ay}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gjuta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of fabric, timber etc.: to twist or warp}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taivuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|vääntää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to assign a role in a play or performance}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|分配角色|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|een}} {{t+|nl|rol|f}} {{t+|nl|toewijzen}}, {{t+|nl|geven}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|roolittaa}}, {{t|fi|[[jakaa]] [[roolit]]}}, {{t|fi|[[antaa]] [[rooli]]}}, {{t|fi|[[valita]] [[näyttelijät]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t|it|[[assegnare]] una [[parte]]}} <!-- was "[[assegnare]] una [[parte]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|escalar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|elenco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|besätta}}, {{t|sv|rollbesätta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: to bring the sailing ship on to the required tack just as the anchor is weighed}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to deposit a ballot}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|äänestää}}, {{t|fi|[[antaa]] [[ääni]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|voter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: to change the type of a variable}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|强制类型转换|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|omzetten}}, {{t|nl|casten}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[vaihtaa]] [[muuttujatyyppi]]}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retyper}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|castear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hunting: to spread out and search for a scent}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[hakea]] [[vainu]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to heave a lead and line in order to ascertain the depth of water}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|peilen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luodata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sonder}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sondar}}, {{t|es|sondear}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|loda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to set in a cast}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lastoittaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plâtrer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Wicca: to open a circle}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: {{t|he|ללהק|tr=le'laheq|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act of [[throwing]].
# Something which has been thrown, [[dispersed]] etc.
#* Dryden
#*: a '''cast''' of dreadful dust
# A small [[mass]] of earth "thrown off" or [[excrete]]d by a [[worm]].
#: The area near the stream was covered with little bubbly worm '''casts'''.''
# The [[collective]] group of actors [[perform]]ing a [[play]] or [[production]] together. Contrasted with [[crew]].
#: ''He’s in the '''cast''' of Oliver.''
#: ''The '''cast''' was praised for a fine performance.''
# The [[casting]] [[procedure]].
#: ''The men got into position for the '''cast''', two at the ladle, two with long rods, all with heavy clothing.''
# An object made in a [[mould]].
#: ''The '''cast''' would need a great deal of machining to become a recognizable finished part.''
# A [[supportive]] and [[immobilising]] [[device]] used to help [[mend]] broken [[bone]]s.
#: ''The doctor put a '''cast''' on the boy’s broken arm.''
# The mould used to make cast objects
#: ''A plaster '''cast''' was made of his face''.
# {{context|hawking|lang=en}} The number of [[hawk]]s (or occasionally other birds) cast off at one time; a [[pair]].
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', VI.7:
#*: As when a '''cast''' of Faulcons make their flight / An an Herneshaw, that lyes aloft on wing […].
# A [[squint]].
#* '''1847''', John Churchill, ''A manual of the principles and practice of ophthalmic medicine and surgery'', p. 389, [http://books.google.ru/books?id=ssXf87zIBjAC&lpg=PA389&ots=LC7EfevcXe&dq=cast%20in%20the%20eye&pg=PA389#v=onepage&q=1968&f=false paragraph 1968]:
#*: The image of the affected eye is clearer and in consequence the diplopy more striking the less the '''cast''' of the eye; hence the double vision will be noticed by the patient before the misdirection of the eye attracts the attention of those about him.
#* '''2011''', Thomas Penn, ''Winter King'', Penguin 2012, p. 7:
#*: Arriving in Brittany, the Woodville exiles found a sallow young man, with dark hair curled in the shoulder-length fashion of the time and a penchant for expensively dyed black clothes, whose steady gaze was made more disconcerting by a '''cast''' in his left eye – such that while one eye looked at you, the other searched for you.
# [[visual|Visual]] [[appearance]].
#: ''Her features had a delicate '''cast''' to them.''
#* {{quote-book|title=Photojournalism: The Professional's Approach| page=240| books.google.com/books?isbn=0240806107| author=Betsy Brill| year=2004| passage=Using a tungsten-balanced film outdoors results in a blue '''cast''' to the photo.}}
#* {{quote-book|title=The Australian's Housekeeper Bride| page=78| books.google.com/books?isbn=1426801130| author=Lindsay Armstrong| year=2007| passage=He stared down at his champagne glass with narrowed eyes and a hard '''cast''' to his mouth.}}
# The [[form]] of one's thoughts, mind etc.
#* '''1992''', {{w|Hilary Mantel}}, ''A Place of Greater Safety'', Harper Perennial 2007, p. 330:
#*: I have read all her articles and come to admire both her elegant turn of phrase and the noble '''cast''' of mind which inspires it; but never, I confess, did I look to see beauty and wit so perfectly united.
# An animal, especially a [[horse]], that is unable to [[rise]] without [[assistance]].
# Animal and insect [[remains]] which have been [[regurgitated]] by a bird.
# A group of crabs.

====Related terms====
* [[plaster cast]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of throwing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heitto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jet}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something which has been thrown dispersed}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heite}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small mass of earth thrown off by a worm}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|keko}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group of actors performing together}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|repartiment|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|全体演员|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bezetting|f}}, {{t|nl|rolbezetting|f}}, {{t|nl|cast|m}}, {{t+|nl|rolverdeling|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|rolularo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näyttelijä|alt=näyttelijät}}, {{t|fi|kokoonpano}}
* German: {{t|de|Cast|m}}, {{t+|de|Besetzung|f}}, {{t+|de|Ensemble|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|foireann|f}}, {{t|ga|foireann aisteoirí|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cast|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|演奏|tr=[[えんそう]], ensō}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|elenco|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[состав]] [[исполнитель|исполнителей]]|m|tr=sostáv ispolnítelej}}, {{t|ru|[[в]] [[роль|ролях]]|tr=v roljáx}} {{qualifier|as appears in movie titles}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reparto|m}}, {{t+|es|elenco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rollbesättning|c}}, {{t|sv|rollinnehavare|c-p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|casting procedure}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|抛|tr=pāo|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|投|tr=tóu|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rolverdeling|f}}, {{t|nl|casten|n}}, {{t|nl|casting|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valu}}, {{t+|fi|valaminen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kannada: {{t+|kn|ಎರಕ|tr=eraka|sc=Knda}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кастинг|m|tr=kásting|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|[[распределение]] [[роль|ролей]]|n|tr=raspredelénije roléj}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rollbesättning|c}}, {{t|sv|rollfördelning|c}}, {{t|sv|rollsättning|c}}, {{t+|sv|casting|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object made in a mould}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|отливка|f|tr=otlivka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|铸件|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|odlitek|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afgietsel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valos}}, {{t+|fi|valu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|moulage}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|calco|m}}, {{t+|it|forma|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|moldado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|слепок|m|tr=slépok|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|medicine: supportive and immobilising device}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يرمي|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|يطرح|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|يوزع الادوار على الممثلين|sc=Arab}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|гипс|m|tr=gips|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|石膏|tr=shígāo}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gips|m}}, {{t|nl|spalk|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lastoitus}}, {{t+|fi|kipsi}}, {{t+|fi|lasta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plâtre}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gips|m}}, {{t+|de|Gipsverband|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|νάρθηκας|m|tr=nárthikas|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|γύψος|m|tr=gýpsos|sc=Grek}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|gips}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gesso|m}}, {{t|it|ingessatura|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ギブス|tr=gibusu}}, {{t|ja|ギプス|tr=gipusu}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|gips|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gesso|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гипс|m|tr=gips|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|escayola}} {{qualifier|Spain}}, {{t+|es|yeso|m}} {{qualifier|Latin America}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|gips|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mould used to make cast objects}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|калъп|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|铸模|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vorm|m}}, {{t+|nl|mal|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muotti}}, {{t+|fi|valumuotti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|moule}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|stampo|m}}, {{t+|it|calco|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|molde|m}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|лите́йная}} {{t+|ru|форма|f|tr=fórma|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|form|c}}, {{t+|sv|gjutform|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|squint}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blik|m}}, {{t+|nl|zijwaartse}} {{t+|nl|blik|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|siristely}}, {{t|fi|karsastus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|strabisme}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|косоглазие|n|tr=kosoglázije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|visual appearance}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|特征|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|外貌|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schijn|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ilme}}, {{t+|fi|piirre}}
* French: {{t+|fr|forme}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|form of one's thoughts, mind etc.}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|animal unable to rise without assistance}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|animal and insect remains regurgitated by a bird}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|oksennuspallo}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group of crabs}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|parvi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|molde|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|tree|cost|value|783|cast|speaking|circumstances|sitting}}

===Anagrams===
* [[acts#English|acts]], [[Acts#English|Acts]], [[cats#English|cats]], [[Cats#English|Cats]], [[scat#English|scat]], [[TACS#English|TACS]], [[TCAs#English|TCAs]], [[TCAS#English|TCAS]], [[TSCA#English|TSCA]]

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English simple past forms]]
[[Category:English verb forms using redundant wikisyntax]]
[[Category:English verbs with base form identical to past participle]]
[[Category:en:Wicca]]

----

==Catalan==

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj}}

# [[chaste]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɑːst/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-s|castje}}

# [[#English|cast]] {{qualifier|people performing a movie}}

====Synonyms====
* [[rolverdeling]]
* [[rolbezetting]]

===Verb===
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=123|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|casten}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|casten}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|en|cast|lang=it}}

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[#English|cast]] {{gloss|people performing a movie}}

----

==Manx==

===Adjective===
{{head|gv|adjective}}

# [[contorted]], [[curly]], [[curved]]
# [[complex]], [[intricate]], [[many-sided]]
# [[ticklish]]

====Mutation====
{{gv mut cons|c|ast}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l/gv|castid}}
* {{l/gv|castys}}
* {{l/gv|neuchast}}
* {{l/gv|yl-chast}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{etyl|la|ro}} {{term|castus|lang=la}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|ro|adjective}}

# [[chaste]], [[clean]], [[pure]]

====Synonyms====
* [[pur]]

[[ar:cast]]
[[zh-min-nan:cast]]
[[cs:cast]]
[[cy:cast]]
[[et:cast]]
[[el:cast]]
[[es:cast]]
[[eu:cast]]
[[fa:cast]]
[[fr:cast]]
[[gl:cast]]
[[ko:cast]]
[[hy:cast]]
[[hr:cast]]
[[io:cast]]
[[it:cast]]
[[kn:cast]]
[[sw:cast]]
[[ku:cast]]
[[li:cast]]
[[hu:cast]]
[[mg:cast]]
[[ml:cast]]
[[my:cast]]
[[no:cast]]
[[oc:cast]]
[[pl:cast]]
[[pt:cast]]
[[ro:cast]]
[[ru:cast]]
[[simple:cast]]
[[fi:cast]]
[[sv:cast]]
[[tl:cast]]
[[ta:cast]]
[[te:cast]]
[[th:cast]]
[[chr:cast]]
[[uk:cast]]
[[vi:cast]]
[[zh:cast]]