{{rfc|too many, overlapping definitions - see discussion page}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|kăch}}, {{IPA|/kætʃ/, /kεtʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/k{tS/, /kEtS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-catch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ætʃ}}, {{rhymes|εtʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# {{countable}} The act of [[seizing]] or [[capture|capturing]]. {{jump|act of capturing|s}}
#: ''The '''catch''' of the perpetrator was the product of a year of police work.''
# {{countable}} The act of catching an [[object]] in motion, especially a [[ball]]. {{jump|catching a ball|s|t}}
#: ''The player made an impressive '''catch'''.''
#: ''Nice '''catch'''!''
# {{countable}} The act of noticing, [[understand]]ing or hearing.  {{jump|act of noticing|s|t}}
#: ''Good '''catch'''. I never would have remembered that.''
# {{uncountable}} The game of catching a ball. {{jump|ball game|t}}
#: ''The kids love to play '''catch'''.''
# {{countable}} A [[find]], in particular a [[boyfriend]] or [[girlfriend]] or prospective [[spouse]]. {{jump|a find|s|t}}
#: ''Did you see his latest '''catch'''?''
#: ''He's a good '''catch'''.''
# {{countable}} Something which is captured or caught. {{jump|something caught|t}}
#: ''The fishermen took pictures of their '''catch'''.''
# {{uncountable}} The amount which is caught, especially of [[fish]]. {{jump|quantity captured|s}}
#: ''The '''catch''' amounted to five tons of swordfish.''
# {{countable}} A stopping [[mechanism]], especially a [[clasp]] which stops something from [[open]]ing. {{jump|stopping mechanism|s|t}}
#: ''She installed a sturdy '''catch''' to keep her cabinets closed tight.''
# {{countable}} A [[hesitation]] in voice, caused by strong emotion.
#: ''There was a '''catch''' in his voice when he spoke his father's name.''
# {{countable|sometimes|_|noun adjunct}} A concealed [[difficulty]], especially in a [[deal]] or [[negotiation]]. {{jump|hidden difficulty|s|t}}
#: ''It sounds like a great idea, but what's the '''catch'''?''
#: ''Be careful, that's a '''catch''' question.''
# {{countable}} A [[crick]]; a sudden muscle pain during unaccustomed positioning when the muscle is in use.
#: ''I bent over to see under the table and got a '''catch''' in my side.''
# {{countable}} A [[fragment]] of [[music]] or [[poetry]]. {{jump|fragment of music|s}}
#* {{quote-book|1852|Mrs M.A. Thompson|chapter=The Tutor's Daughter|Graham's American Monthly Magazine of Literature, Art, and Fashion|page=266|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=hdcRAAAAYAAJ
|passage=In the lightness of my heart I sang '''catches''' of songs as my horse gayly bore me along the well-remembered road.}}
# {{obsolete}} A state of [[readiness]] to capture or seize; an [[ambush]].
#* {{quote-book|1678|[[w:John Bunyan|John Bunyan]]|The Pilgrim's Progress|section=[[wikisource:The Pilgrim's Progress/Part I/Section 3|Part I Section 3]]
|passage=You lie at the '''catch''' again: this is not for edification.}}
# {{countable|agriculture}} A [[crop]] which has [[germinate]]d and begun to grow.
#* {{quote-book|1905||Eighth Biennial Report of the Board of Horticulture of the State of Oregon|page=204|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=zmdJAAAAMAAJ
|passage=There was a good '''catch''' of rye and a good fall growth.}}
# {{countable|music}} A type of humorous [[round]] in which the voices gradually catch up with one another; usually sung by men and often having [[bawdy]] lyrics.
#* {{quote-book|1966|Allen Tate|T. S. Eliot: The Man and His Work|page=76|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=G5ZaAAAAMAAJ
|passage=One night, I remember, we sang a '''catch''', written (words and music) by Orlo Williams, for three voices. }}
# {{countable|music}} The [[refrain]]; a line or lines of a song which are repeated from verse to verse. {{jump|refrain|s}}
#* {{quote-book|2003|Robert Hugh Benson|Come Rack! Come Rope!|page=268|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=f5abPx1KeKQC
|passage=The phrase repeated itself like the '''catch''' of a song. }}
# {{countable|cricket}} The act of catching a hit ball before it reaches the ground, resulting in an out.
#* {{quote-news|1997|May 10|Henry Blofeld|Cricket: Rose and Burns revive Somerset|The Independent|url=http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P2-4855186.html
|passage=It was he who removed Peter Bowler with the help of a good '''catch''' at third slip.}}
# {{countable|cricket}} A player in respect of his catching ability; particularly one who catches well.
#* {{quote-news|1894|September 16||To Meet Lord Hawke's Team|The New York Times|url=http://query.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=9C03E3DC1131E033A25755C1A96F9C94659ED7CF|page=21
|passage={{...}} in the field he is all activity, covers an immense amount of ground, and is a sure '''catch'''.}}
# {{countable|rowing}} The first contact of an [[oar]] with the water.
#* {{quote-news|1935|June 7|Robert F. Kelley|California Crews Impress at Debut|The New York Times|page=29|url=http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F20C13F73C5B177A93C5A9178DD85F418385F9
|passage= They are sitting up straighter, breaking their arms at the '''catch''' and getting on a terrific amount of power at the '''catch''' with each stroke.}}
# {{countable|phonetics}} A stoppage of breath, resembling a slight [[cough]].
#* {{quote-book|2006|Mitsugu Sakihara et al.|Okinawan-English Wordbook|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=Antv4KV1ff4C|isbn=0824831020
|passage=The glottal stop or glottal '''catch''' is the sound used in English in the informal words uh-huh 'yes' and uh-uh 'no'.}}

====Synonyms====
* {{jump|s|act of capturing}} [[seizure]], [[capture]], [[collar]], [[snatch]]
* {{jump|s|catching a ball|t}} [[grasp]], [[snatch]]
* {{jump|s|act of noticing|t}} [[observation]]
* {{jump|s|a find|t}} [[prize]], [[find]]; [[conquest]], [[beau]]
* {{jump|s|quantity captured}} [[haul]], [[take]]
* {{jump|s|stopping mechanism|t}} [[stop]], [[chock]]; [[clasp]], [[latch]]
* {{jump|s|hidden difficulty|t}} [[snag]], [[problem]]; [[trick]], [[gimmick]]
* {{jump|s|fragment of music}} [[snatch]], [[fragment]]; [[snippet]], [[bit]]
* {{jump|s|refrain}} [[chorus]], [[refrain]], [[burden]]

====Derived terms====
* [[bycatch]]
* [[catchful]]
* [[catchy]]
* [[crowd catch]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the act of catching a ball {{jump|t|catching a ball|s}} }}
* [[Ewe]]: [[xe]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|koppi}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fang|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|תפיסה|f|tr=tfisa|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|捕る|tr=toru|sc=Jpan}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[گرتن]]}}
* Swedish: [[fångst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a find, in particular a boyfriend/girlfriend {{jump|t|a find|s}} }}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|saalis}}, {{t-|fi|löytö}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fang|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|捕まえる|tr=tsukamaeru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a clasp which stops something from opening {{jump|t|stopping mechanism|s}} }}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|haka}}, {{t-|fi|salpa}}, {{t-|fi|solki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|hasp|c}}, {{t-|sv|hake|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a hidden difficulty, especially in a deal or negotiation {{jump|t|hidden difficulty|s}} }}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koukku}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|עוקץ|m|tr='oqetz|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|hake|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which is captured {{jump|t|something caught}} }}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|saalis}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fang|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|捕る|tr=toru|sc=Jpan}}
* Swedish: [[fångst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the act of noticing, understanding or hearing {{jump|t|act of noticing|s}} }}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huomio}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the game of catching a ball {{jump|t|ball game}} }}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kopittelu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|キャッチボール|tr=kyacchibōru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|catches|catching|caught}}

# {{transitive}} To [[seize]] a moving object, with the hands or otherwise. {{jump|seize in motion|s|t}}
#: ''I will throw you the ball, and you '''catch''' it.''
#: ''Watch me '''catch''' this raisin in my mouth.''
# {{transitive}} To [[capture]] or [[snare]], especially an animal. {{jump|capture prey|s}}
#: ''I hope I '''catch''' a fish.''
# {{transitive}} To [[seize]] after a [[pursuit]]. {{jump|pursue and seize|s}}
#: ''He ran but we '''caught''' him at the exit.''
#: ''The police '''caught''' the robber at a nearby casino.''
# {{transitive}} To grasp mentally: [[perceive]] and [[understand]]. {{jump|perceive and understand|t}}
#: ''Did you '''catch''' his name?
#: ''Did you '''catch''' the way she looked at him?''
# {{transitive}} To [[attract]] and [[hold]].
#: ''He managed to '''catch''' her attention.''
# {{transitive}} To [[charm]] or [[entrance]].
#* {{quote-book|2004|Catherine Asaro|The Moon's Shadow|page=40|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=O2Rj1kYTF1kC|isbn=076534324X
|passage=No, a far more natural beauty '''caught''' him. }}
# {{transitive}} To [[discover]], to [[surprise]] in the act.
#: ''He was '''caught''' on video robbing the bank.''
#: ''He was '''caught''' in the act of stealing a biscuit.''
# {{transitive}} To [[seize]] (an [[opportunity]]). {{jump|seize opportunity|t}}
#* {{quote-book|1811|[[w:Jane Austen|Jane Austen]]|Sense and Sensibility|section=[[wikisource:Sense_and_Sensibility/Chapter_18|Chapter 18]]
|passage={{...}} she internally resolved henceforward to '''catch''' every opportunity of eyeing the hair and of satisfying herself, {{...}} }}
# {{transitive}} To [[take in]]; to [[watch]] or [[listen to]] (an entertainment).
#: ''I have some free time tonight so I think I'll '''catch''' a movie.''
# {{transitive}} To be [[in time]] for; to [[reach]] in time (especially, in time to leave).
#: ''I would love to have dinner but I have to '''catch''' a plane.''
# {{transitive}} To [[travel]] by means of.
#* {{quote-book|1987|[[w:A.J. Quinnell|A.J. Quinnell]]|In the Name of the Father|page=111|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=GJc1izYyDIkC|isbn=0453005713
|passage=After about a kilometer I '''caught''' a taxi to Santa Croce.}}
# {{transitive}} To [[spread]] or be [[convey]]ed to.
#: ''The fire spread slowly until it '''caught''' the eaves of the barn.''
# {{transitive}} To be [[infect]]ed by.
#: ''Everyone seems to be '''catching''' the flu this week.''
# {{transitive}} To be [[affect]]ed by; to join in.
#: ''She finally '''caught''' the mood of the occasion.''
# {{transitive}} To [[regain]] something necessary, such as [[breath]] or [[sleep]].
#: ''I have to stop for a moment and '''catch''' my breath.''
#: ''I '''caught''' some Z's on the train.''
# {{transitive}} To [[overtake]] or [[catch up]] to.
#: ''We didn't '''catch''' the van until the next exit.''
# {{transitive}} To [[receive]] and [[retain]].
#: ''The bucket '''catches''' water from the downspout.''
# {{transitive}} To have something be [[hold back|held back]] or [[impede]]d.
#: ''I '''caught''' my heel on the threshold.''
# {{transitive}} To [[suffer]] from; to [[receive]].
#: ''You're going to '''catch''' a beating if they find out.''
#: ''We '''caught''' a run of bad luck this year.''
# {{transitive}} To [[reproduce]] or [[echo]] a spirit or idea faithfully.
#: ''You've really '''caught''' his determination in this sketch.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[engage]], [[stick]], or [[latch]]. {{jump|engage|t}}
#: ''Push it in until it '''catches'''.''
# {{intransitive}} To make a [[grasp]]ing or [[snatch]]ing motion.
#: ''He '''caught''' at the railing as he fell.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[catch fire]]; to [[ignite]].
#: ''The trees '''caught''' quickly in the dry wind.''
# {{intransitive}} To be [[hold back|held back]] or [[impede]]d.
#: ''Be careful your dress doesn't '''catch''' on that knob.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[hesitate]], as if [[momentarily]] stuck.
#: ''His voice '''caught''' when he came to his father's name.''
#: ''I was about to say something unpleasant, but I managed to '''catch''' myself.''
# {{intransitive|rare}} To [[spread]] by [[contagion]].
#: ''The plague '''caught''' there, and left half the town dead.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[serve]] well or poorly for catching, especially for catching fish.
#* {{quote-book|1877||Annual Report of the Ohio State Board of Agriculture|page=135|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=tXUSAAAAYAAJ
|passage=The nets '''caught''' well, and Mr. Deeley reported it the best fishing ground he ever tried. }}
# {{transitive}} To [[hit]] someone in a specific place.
#: ''If he '''catches''' you on the chin, you'll be on the mat.''
# {{transitive}} To be [[hit]] by something. {{jump|be hit|s}}
#: ''He '''caught''' a bullet in the back of the head last year.''
# {{transitive}} To [[touch]] or be touched by, especially wind or light.
#: ''The sunlight '''caught''' the leaves and the trees turned to gold.''
# {{transitive}} To [[entrap]] or [[trip up]] a person, especially deceptively.
#* {{quote-book|1611||[[w:Authorized King James Version|Authorized King James Version]]|section=[[wikisource:Bible_(King_James)/Mark#Chapter_12|Mark 12:13 ]]
|passage=And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to '''catch''' him in his words.}}
# {{transitive|rare}} To become [[pregnant]].
#* {{quote-book|2002|Orpha Caton|Shadow on the Creek|page=102-103|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=GmLXMp0c3NMC|isbn1591602653
|passage=Had Nancy got '''caught''' with a child?  If so she would destroy her parent's dreams for her.}}
# {{transitive|dated}} To [[marry]] or enter into a similar [[relationship]] with a man.
#* {{quote-book|1933|[[w:Sinclair Lewis|Sinclair Lewis]]|Ann Vickers|page=108|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=NF5JAAAAMAAJ
|passage=The public {{...}} said that Miss Bogardus was a suffragist because she had never '''caught''' a man; that she wanted something, but it wasn't the vote.}}
#* {{quote-book|2006|Michael Collier and Georgia Machemer|Medea|page=23|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=XKDr4vXVbvIC|isbn=0195145666
|passage=As for Aspasia, concubinage with Pericles brought her as much honor as she could hope to claim in Athens. {{...}} from the moment she '''caught''' her man, this influential, unconventional woman became a lightning rod {{...}} }}
# {{transitive|computing}} To handle an error, especially an [[exception]]. {{jump|handle error|t}}
#: ''When the program '''catches''' an exception, this is recorded in the log file.''
# {{transitive|baseball}} To play a specific period of time as the [[catcher]].
#: ''He '''caught''' the last three innings.''
# {{transitive|cricket}} To end a player's [[innings]] by catching a hit ball before the first bounce.
#: ''Townsend hit 29 before he was '''caught''' by Wilson.''
# {{transitive|rowing}} To lower one's oars into the water at the beginning of the stroke.
#* {{quote-book|1906|Arthur W. Stevens|Practical Rowing with Scull and Sweep|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=M6ICAAAAYAAJ|page=63
|passage=Stop gathering, in that gradual fashion, and '''catch''' the water sharply and decisively.}}
# {{transitive|surfing}} To contact a [[wave]] in such a way that one can ride it back to [[shore]].
#* {{quote-book|2001|John Lull|Sea Kayaking Safety & Rescue|page=203|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=h5IVyQlKsL4C|isbn=0899972748
|passage=If you are surfing a wave through the rocks, make sure you have a clear route before '''catching''' the wave. }}
# {{transitive|US|dialectal}} To [[deliver]] or assist in the delivery of a [[baby]].
#* {{quote-book|1994|[[w:Chris Offutt|Chris Offutt]]|The Vintage Book of American Short Stories|chapter=Aunt Granny Lith|page=391|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=1q4GtKCPl3MC|isbn=0679745130
|passage= The last granny-woman in these pans. She '''caught''' three hundred babies on this creek. }}
# {{intransitive|agriculture}} To [[germinate]] and set down [[root]]s.
#: ''The seeds '''caught''' and grew.''
# {{intransitive|automotive|of an engine}} To [[turn over]].
#: ''The engine finally '''caught''' and roared to life.''
# {{intransitive|sailing|of sails}} To receive [[wind]]; to be blown on.
#* {{quote-book|2003|Jerry Dennis|The Living Great Lakes|page=63|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=3P8lsPL0FQQC|isbn=0312251939
|passage={{...}} the sails '''caught''' and filled, and the boat jumped to life beneath us.}}
# {{intransitive|baseball}} To play in the position of [[catcher]].
#: ''Who's '''catching'''?''

====Synonyms====
* {{jump|s|seize in motion}} [[snatch]], [[grab]]
* {{jump|s|capture prey}} [[capture]], [[take]]; [[snare]], [[hook]]
* {{jump|s|pursue and seize}} [[take down]], [[collar]], [[apprehend]], [[arrest]]
* {{jump|s|be hit}} [[take]], [[get]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the verb "to catch"}}
* [[catchable]]
* [[catchall]]
* [[catchbasin]]
* [[catcher]]
* [[catch-breath]]
* [[catch cold]]
* [[catch a cold]]
* [[catch a crab]]
* [[catch a tan]]
* [[catch as catch can]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[catch fire]]
* [[catch it]]
* [[catch on]]
* [[catch out]]
* [[catch over]]
* [[catch up]]
* [[caught in the act]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to seize an object, especially in the hands {{jump|t|seize object}} }}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|chytit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vangen}}
* Finnish: [[pyydystää]], [[ottaa kiinni]], [[napata]], [[siepata]]
* French: {{t+|fr|attraper}}
* German: {{t+|de|fangen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[לתפוס]] (litpos)
* Irish: {{t|ga|beir ar|xs=Irish}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|잡다|tr=japda|sc=Hang}}
* Slovene: [[ujeti]]
* Swedish: [[fånga]], [[fatta]] (''dated'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perceive and understand {{jump|t|perceive and understand}} }}
* Czech: [[zachytit]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsittää}}, {{t+|fi|ymmärtää}}
* German: {{t+|de|verstehen}}, {{t|de|begreifen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[לתפוס]] (litpos)
* Slovene: [[ujeti]]
* Swedish: [[fatta]] (''colloquial''), [[uppfatta]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to seize an opportunity {{jump|t|seize opportunity}} }}
* Czech: [[chytnout]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reach in time to leave {{jump|t|reach in time}} }}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|halen}}
* German: [[bekommen]], coll: [[erwischen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[ujeti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to engage, stick, or grasp {{jump|t|engage}} }}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tarttua}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to handle a computer error, especially an exception {{jump|t|handle error}} }}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|siepata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans|could be any sense}}
{{top}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tangkap]], [[sergap]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[捕まる]] ([[つかまる]], tsukamaru), [[捕まえる]] ([[つかまえる]], tsukamaeru)
{{mid}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[prinde]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[atrapar]]
{{bottom}}

===Dictionary notes===
* For a survey of treatments of this word in various major dictionaries, see [[Appendix:Dictionary notes/catch]].

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:catch]]
[[el:catch]]
[[fa:catch]]
[[fr:catch]]
[[gl:catch]]
[[ko:catch]]
[[hy:catch]]
[[io:catch]]
[[it:catch]]
[[kk:catch]]
[[ku:catch]]
[[hu:catch]]
[[nl:catch]]
[[ja:catch]]
[[no:catch]]
[[pl:catch]]
[[ru:catch]]
[[simple:catch]]
[[fi:catch]]
[[sv:catch]]
[[ta:catch]]
[[te:catch]]
[[vi:catch]]
[[tr:catch]]
[[uk:catch]]
[[zh:catch]]