
==Translingual==

===Number===
'''CD'''

# A Roman numeral representing [[four hundred]] ([[400]]).

====See also====
* Alternate forms: [[cd]], [[CCCC]], [[cccc]]
* Previous: [[CCCXCIX]] ([[three hundred and ninety-nine]], [[399]])
* Next: [[CDI]] ([[four hundred and one]], [[401]])

[[Category:Roman numerals]]
----

==English==

====Homophones====
*[[seedy]]

==={{initialism}}===
{{en-noun}}  {{pos_n}}

# [[compact disk]]: A form of digital media that is based on the use of a laser to read from a plastic disc in a reader device known as a CD drive.  It comes in several varieties including the [[CD-ROM]] (ROM=read-only memory) which cannot be written to except during manufacturing, the [[CD-R]] (recordable), which can be written to exactly once, and the [[CD-RW]] (re-writable), which can be written to as many times as one wishes (to a limit).
# [[certificate of deposit|Certificate of deposit]]: used by financial institutions
# [[corps diplomatique|Corps diplomatique]]: a decal found on automobiles to indicate diplomatic status
# [[creative director|Creative director]]: head of the creative department (e.g. advertising agencies)
# [[corporate design|Corporate design]]: specific design features of a company, corporate identity [[CI]]
# [[collision detection|Collision detection]]: used by an Ethernet network to detect when two computers are sending frames at the same time, and also to deal with such collisions when they happen
# [[circular dichroism]]

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''CD'''
# [[Democratic Republic of the Congo]], a member state of the [[United Nations]].
----

==Japanese==

===Abbreviation===
'''CD'''

# [[compact disk]]
#*それはヘビメタのCDです。
#*:それはへびめたのしーでぃーです。
#*:Sore ha hebimeta no CD desu.
#*:That is a CD of heavy metal.
# [[cash]] [[dispenser]]; an automatic cash machine for withdrawing.
#*コンビニのCDからお金を引き出しました。
#*:こんびにのしーでぃーからおかねをひきだしました。
#*:Konbini no CD kara okane wo hikidashi mashita.
#*:I withdrew a money from a CD at a convenient store.

====Synonyms====
'''compact disk'''
*[[コンパクトディスク]] (konpakuto disuku)
'''cash dispenser'''
*[[自動現金支払機]]  (jidō genkin shiharai-ki)

====Related terms====
'''cash dispenser'''
*[[ATM]]
*[[自動現金預払機]] (jidō genkin yoharai-ki)

----

==Norwegian==

===Initialism===
{{no-noun-irreg|m|CD'en|CD'er|CD'ene}}

# [[#English|CD]] (disc)

[[ar:CD]]
[[de:CD]]
[[es:CD]]
[[fr:CD]]
[[ko:CD]]
[[it:CD]]
[[he:CD]]
[[ku:CD]]
[[lt:CD]]
[[li:CD]]
[[hu:CD]]
[[nl:CD]]
[[pl:CD]]
[[pt:CD]]
[[ru:CD]]
[[sq:CD]]
[[sk:CD]]
[[fi:CD]]
[[sv:CD]]
[[tr:CD]]