==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/sɛl/}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|cel|sell}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term/t|ang|*cella}} (attested in inflected forms), from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|cella|lang=la||chamber, small room, compartment}}, later reinforced by {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|cel|lang=fro}}, {{term|sele}}, {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|cele|lang=fro}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
{{wikipedia}}

# A single-room [[dwelling]] for a [[hermit]]. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', VI.6:
#*: So, taking them apart into his '''cell''', / He to that point fit speaches gan to frame […].
# {{context|now|_|historical|lang=en}} A small [[monastery]] or [[nunnery]] dependent on a larger religious establishment. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
# A small [[room]] in a [[monastery]] or [[nunnery]] accommodating one person. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#: ''Gregor Mendel must have spent a good amount of time outside of his '''cell'''.''
# Each of the small [[hexagonal]] compartments in a [[honeycomb]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{context|biology|now|_|chiefly|_|botany|lang=en}} Any of various [[chamber]]s in a [[tissue]] or [[organism]] having specific functions. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1858''', {{w|Asa Gray}}, ''Introduction to Structural and Systematic Botany'', fifth edition, p. 282:
#*: Each of the two '''cells''' or lobes of the anther is marked with a lateral line or furrow, running from top to bottom [...].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Specifically, any of the supposed [[compartment]]s of the [[brain]], formerly thought to be the source of specific mental capacities, [[knowledge]], or [[memories]]. {{defdate|14th-19th c.}}
#* '''1890''', {{w|Oscar Wilde}}, ''The Picture of Dorian Gray'', ch. XVI:
#*: From '''cell''' to '''cell''' of his brain crept the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all man's appetites, quickened into force each trembling nerve and fibre.
# A [[section]] or [[compartment]] of a larger structure. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|obsolete|chiefly|_|literary|lang=en}} Any small [[dwelling]]; a remote [[nook]], a [[den]]. {{defdate|16th-19th c.}}
#* '''1603''', {{w|John Florio}}, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', II.12:
#*: Thou seest but the order and policie of this little '''Cell''' {{transterm|caveau|lang=frm}} wherein thou art placed [...].
#* '''1810''', {{w|Walter Scott}}, ''Lady of the Lake'', II:
#*: Not long shall honour'd Douglas dwell, / Like hunted stag, in mountain-'''cell''' [...].
# A [[room]] in a [[prison]] for one or more [[inmate]]s. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''The combatants spent the night in separate '''cells'''.''
# A device which stores [[electricity|electrical]] power; used either singly or together in [[battery|batteries]]; the basic unit of a battery. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#: ''This MP3 player runs on 2 AAA '''cells'''.''
# {{context|biology|lang=en}} The basic unit of a living [[organism]], consisting of a quantity of [[protoplasm]] surrounded by a [[cell membrane]], which is able to synthesize proteins and replicate itself. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''1999''', Paul Brown & Dave King, ''The Guardian'', 15 Feb 1999:
#*: An American company has applied to experiment in Britain on Parkinson's disease sufferers by injecting their brains with '''cells''' from pigs.
#* '''2011''', Terence Allen & Graham Cowling, ''The Cell: A Very Short Introduction'', Oxford 2011, p. 3:
#*: In multicellular organisms, groups of '''cells''' form tissues and tissues come together to form organs.
# {{context|meteorology|lang=en}} A small [[thunderstorm]], caused by [[convection]], that forms ahead of a storm front. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''There is a powerful storm '''cell''' headed our way.''
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} The minimal unit of a [[cellular automaton]] that can change state and has an associated behavior. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''The upper right '''cell''' always starts with the color green.''
# {{context|card games|lang=en}} In [[FreeCell]]-type games, a space where one [[card]] can be placed.
# A small [[group]] of people forming part of a larger organization, often an outlawed one. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''Those three fellows are the local '''cell''' of that organization.''
# {{context|communication|lang=en}} A short, fixed-length [[packet]] as in [[Wikipedia:Asynchronous Transfer Mode|asynchronous transfer mode]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''Virtual Channel number 5 received 170 '''cells'''.''
# {{context|communication|lang=en}} A region of radio reception that is a part of a larger radio network.
#: ''I get good reception in my home because it is near a '''cell''' tower.''
# {{context|geometry|lang=en}} A [[three-dimensional]] [[facet]] of a [[polytope]].
# {{context|statistics|lang=en}} The unit in a statistical array (a spreadsheet, for example) where a row and a column intersect.
# {{context|architecture|lang=en}} The space between the ribs of a vaulted roof.
# {{context|architecture|lang=en}} A [[cella]].

=====Usage notes=====
In the sense of an electrical device, "cell" is the technically correct name for a single unit of battery-type power storage, whereas a [[battery]] is a device comprising multiple of them, though it is often used for simple cells.

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:cell]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from "cell"}}
* [[battery cell]]
* [[blood cell]]
* [[brain cell]]
* [[cancer cell]]
* [[cellbound]]
* [[cell division]]
* [[cell house]]
* [[cell line]]
* [[cell membrane]]
* [[cell theory]]
* [[cell type]]
* [[cellblock]]
* [[cellmate]]
* [[dry cell]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[fat cell]]
* [[fuel cell]]
* [[germ cell]]
* [[helper T cell]]
* [[host cell]]
* [[photoconductive cell]]
* [[photoelectric cell]]
* [[photoemissive cell]]
* [[photovoltaic cell]]
* [[prison cell]]
* [[nerve cell]]
* [[red cell]]
* [[red blood cell]]
* [[sickle cell]]
* [[skin cell]]
* [[solar cell]]
* [[stem cell]]
* [[T cell]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[cellular]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|component of an electrical battery}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|خلية|f|tr=xaliya|sc=Arab}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|клетка|f|tr=kletka}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|pila|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|电池|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|článek|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|batterij|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kenno}}, {{t+|fi|paristo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pile|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|στοιχείο|n}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|セル|tr=seru}}, {{t+|ja|電池|tr=でんち, denchi}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|elementas|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|батерија|f|tr=batérija}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ċellola|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ogniwo|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|célula|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|батарейка|f|tr=bataréjka}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}, {{t+|sv|element|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|room in a prison for containing inmates}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|birucë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|زنزانة|f|tr=zinzāna|sc=Arab}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|килия|f|tr=kilija}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|အချုပ်ခန်း|tr=ăchokhkan:}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|calabós|m}}, {{t|ca|cel·la|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|牢房|tr=láofáng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|cela|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cel|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|selli}}, {{t+|fi|tyrmä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cellule|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zelle|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κελί|n|tr=kelí}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|תא|m|tr=ta}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|klefi|m}}, {{t+|is|fangaklefi|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cella|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|独房|tr=どくぼう, dokubō}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|cachot|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|kamera|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|kamera|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ċella|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|killeen|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سلول|tr=sellul|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cela|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cela|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|celulă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|камера|f|tr=kámera}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|ćelija}}, {{t|sh|ћелија}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|celda|f}}, {{t|es|bartolina|f}} {{qualifier|Honduras}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hücre}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|камера|f|tr=kámera|sc=Cyrl}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|leziöb}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|room in a monastery for sleeping one person}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|килия|f|tr=kilija}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|cel·la|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|cela|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cel|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kammio}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cellule|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κελί|n|tr=kelí}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cella|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|個室|tr=こしつ, koshitsu}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|celė|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ċella|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|keeill|f}}, {{t|gv|killeen|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cela|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cela|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|chilie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|келья|f|tr=kél'ja}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|célula|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small group of people forming part of a larger organization}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|خَلِيّة|f|tr=xalíyya}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|բջիջ|tr=bëǰiǰ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|клетка|f|tr=kletka}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|buňka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cel|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|solu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cellule|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πυρήνας|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|תא|m|tr=ta}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cellula|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|班|tr=はん, han}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|célula|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|celulă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ячейка|f|tr=jačéjka}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small thunderstorm that forms ahead of a storm front}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|solu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|basic unit of a living organism}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|خلية|f|tr=xalíyya}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|خلية|f|tr=xaleiya|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|բջիջ|tr=bëǰiǰ}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|hüceyrə}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|клетка|f|tr=klétka}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ကလာပ်စည်း|tr=kălatsi:}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cèl·lula|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|細胞|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|细胞|tr=xìbāo|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|buňka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cel|f}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|kykna|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|solu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cellule|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zelle|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κύτταρο|n|tr=kýttaro}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|תא|m|tr=ta}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|fruma|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cill|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cellula|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|細胞|tr=さいぼう, saibō}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|កោសិកា|tr=koa si ka|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|세포|tr=sepo|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|細胞|sc=Kore}})
* Latin: {{t|la|cellula|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|šūna|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|ląstelė|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|клетка|f|tr=klétka}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ċellula|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|killag|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pūtau|alt=pūtau}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|hinááh bijéí}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سلول|tr=sellul}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komórka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|célula|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|celulă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|клетка|f|tr=klétka}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cealla|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|станица}}, {{t|sh|ћелија}}, {{t|sh|stanica}}, {{t|sh|ćelija}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|célula|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|selula}}, {{t|tl|sihay}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|కణము|tr=kanamu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hücre}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|клітина|f|tr=klitýna|sc=Cyrl}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|ھۈجەيرە|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tế bào}} ({{t|vi|細胞}})
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|siül}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|biological cavity}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|բջիջ|tr=bëǰiǰ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|килийка|f|tr=kilijka}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|buňka|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|celle|c}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|kykna|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kenno}} {{qualifier|of a honeycomb}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cellule|f}} {{qualifier|of a honeycomb}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|οπή|f}}, {{t+|el|κελί|n|tr=kelí}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|巣穴|tr=すあな, suana}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|šūna|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|akis|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|xehda|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komórka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|célula|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ячейка|tr=jačéjka|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|bunka|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cell|c}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|ziöb}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|minimal unit of a cellular automaton that can change state and has an associated behavior}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|セル|tr=seru}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komórka|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a short, fixed-length packet as in asynchronous transfer mode}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|solu}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|セル|tr=seru}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komórka|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|region of radio reception that is a part of a larger radio network}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|خَلِيَّة}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|բջիջ|tr=bëǰiǰ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|buňka|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geometry: a three-dimensional facet of a polytope}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќелија|f|tr=ḱélija}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[sel]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[cellula]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|lt}}: [[ląstelė]] {{f}} (1, 2); [[celė]] {{f}} (3-5)
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{t+|fa|یاخته|tr=yakhteh}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[bunka]] {{f}} (1), [[cela]] {{f}} (4, 5)
* {{ttbc|si}}: [[saila]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To place or enclose in a cell.
#* Warner
#*: '''Celled''' under ground.

{{Webster 1913}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|cell phone}}, from {{term|cellular phone}}, from {{term|cellular}} + {{term|telephone}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|US|informal|lang=en}} A [[cellular phone]].

=====Usage notes=====
* Widely used attributively.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|informal: a cellular telephone}}
<!--Note: add INFORMAL or SLANG terms to this table, where these exist-->
* Arabic: {{t|ar|خِليَوي}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|手機|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|手机|tr=shǒujī|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|formal/technical}} {{t+|cmn|移動電話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|移动电话|tr=yídòng diànhuà|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|formal/technical}} {{t|cmn|手提電話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|手提电话|tr=shǒutí diànhuà|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|cmn|大哥大|tr=dàgēdà|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mobieltje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kännykkä}} {{qualifier|informal}}
* French: {{t+|fr|portable|m}}, {{t+|fr|mobile|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handy|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κινητό|n|tr=kinitó}}, {{t|el|κινητό τηλέφωνο|n|tr=kinitó tiléfono}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סלולרי|m|tr=selolári|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cellulare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ケータイ|tr=kētai}}, {{t+|ja|携帯電話|tr=keitai denwa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|ko}}:
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|мобилен телефон|m|alt=мобилен|tr=móbilen}}
* {{trreq|cmn}}:
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komórka|f}}
* Portuguese: ({{t+|pt|telefone}}) {{t+|pt|celular|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|celular|n}}, {{t|ro|mobil|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мобила|f|tr=mobíla}}, {{t+|ru|мобильный телефон|m|tr=mobíl'nyj telefón}}, {{t+|ru|мобильник|m|tr=mobíl'nik}}, {{t+|ru|сотовый|m|tr=sotóvyj}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|teléfono móvil|m}}, {{t+|es|móvil|m}}, {{t|es|teléfono celular|m}}, {{t+|es|celular|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|seli}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mobil}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|సెల్|tr=cell}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|cep}}, {{t+|tr|cep telefonu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

----

==Old Irish==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|la|cella|lang=sga}}.

===Noun===
{{head|sga|noun|g=f}}

# [[church]]

====Descendants====
* Irish: {{l/ga|cill}}
* Manx: {{l/gv|keeill}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{l/gd|cill}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-cell.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# [[#English|cell]]; a room in a prison.
# Cell; a room in a monastery for sleeping one person.
# Cell; a small group of people forming part of a larger organization.
# {{context|biology|lang=sv}} Cell; the basic unit of a living organism.
# {{context|biology|lang=sv}} Cell; an cavity in a structure such as a honeycomb.
# {{context|computing|lang=sv}} Cell; a minimal unit of a cellular automaton.

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=celle}}

----

==Welsh==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|la|cella|lang=cy}}.

===Noun===
{{cy-noun|f|celloedd}}

# {{l/en|cell}}

====Mutation====
{{cy-mut-c|ell}}

[[ar:cell]]
[[zh-min-nan:cell]]
[[ca:cell]]
[[cs:cell]]
[[cy:cell]]
[[da:cell]]
[[de:cell]]
[[et:cell]]
[[el:cell]]
[[es:cell]]
[[eo:cell]]
[[eu:cell]]
[[fa:cell]]
[[fr:cell]]
[[gl:cell]]
[[ko:cell]]
[[io:cell]]
[[id:cell]]
[[kn:cell]]
[[kk:cell]]
[[sw:cell]]
[[ku:cell]]
[[lo:cell]]
[[li:cell]]
[[jbo:cell]]
[[hu:cell]]
[[mg:cell]]
[[ml:cell]]
[[my:cell]]
[[ja:cell]]
[[no:cell]]
[[km:cell]]
[[pl:cell]]
[[pt:cell]]
[[ru:cell]]
[[simple:cell]]
[[fi:cell]]
[[sv:cell]]
[[ta:cell]]
[[te:cell]]
[[tr:cell]]
[[vi:cell]]
[[zh:cell]]