==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* {{qualifier|UK,Canada}} [[centre]] ('''centre''' is rarely found in the US (e.g. Centre Street [http://www.google.co.uk/maps?q=Centre+St,+New+York,+NY,+USA&sa=X&oi=map&ct=title] where the street was named before the spelling reform), similarly '''center''' is occasionally found in countries where '''centre''' is the traditional spelling.)

===Etymology===
From [[Ancient Greek]] {{term|grc|sc=polytonic|κέντρον|tr=kéntron||centre}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]}} {{IPA|/ˈsɛntə/}}, {{SAMPA|/"sEnt@/}}
* {{qualifier|[[General American|US]]}} {{IPA|/ˈsɛntɚ/|/ˈsɛnɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"sEnt@`/|/"sEn@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-center.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛntə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The [[middle]] portion of something; the part well away from the [[edge]]s.
# {{geometry}} The point on a [[line]] that is [[midway]] between the [[end]]s.
# {{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[circle]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[circumference]] of the circle.
# {{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[sphere]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[surface]] of the sphere.
# {{geometry}} The point in the interior of any [[figure]] of any number of [[dimension]]s that has as its [[coordinates]] the [[arithmetic mean]] of the coordinates of all points on the [[perimeter]] of the figure (or of all points in the [[interior]] for a center of volume).
# A place where some [[function]] or [[activity]] occurs.
#: ''shopping '''center''''';
#: ''convention '''center'''''
# A [[topic]] that is particularly [[important]] in a given context.
#: ''the '''center''' of the controversy''
#: ''the '''center''' of attention''
# {{basketball}} The player, generally the tallest, who plays closest to the basket.
# {{ice hockey}} The [[forward]] that generally plays between the [[left wing]] and [[right wing]] and usually takes the [[faceoff]]s.
# {{American football}} The person who holds the ball at the beginning of each play.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|point on a line midway between the ends}} [[midpoint]]
* {{sense|point in the interior of figure with mean coordinates}} [[centroid]], [[center of gravity]], [[center of mass]]

====Antonyms====
* [[periphery]]

====Derived terms====
* [[centerpiece]]
* [[community center]]
* [[shopping center]]
* [[music center]]

{{center-centre-noun}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of, at, or related to a center.

====Synonyms====
* [[central]]

{{center-centre-adj}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}} {{transitive}}

# To cause (an object) to occupy the center of an area.
# To cause (some [[attribute]], such as a [[mood]] or [[voltage]]) to be adjusted to a value which is midway between the [[extreme]]s.

{{en-verb}} {{intransitive}}

# To [[concentrate]] on (something), to pay close attention to (something).

{{center-centre-verb}}

====Related terms====
* [[central]]
====Usage note====
The indirect object of the intransitive verb is given the prepositions [[on]], [[in]], [[at]], or [[around]].  [[at]] is primary used only in mathematical contexts.

Merriam-Webster's ''Collegiate Dictionary'' observes that [[around]] is objected to by some people on the grounds that it is illogical, but states that it is an idiom, and thus that such objections are irrelevant.  It offers "[[revolve]] around" as an alternative to "center around" for those who would avoid the idiom.
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-irreg-c|2=centern|3=centrar}}
{{sv-noun-irreg-n|2=centret|3=center|4=centren}}
{{sv-noun-unc-irreg-c}}
'''center''' {{c}}, {{n}} and {{uncountable}}

# [[centre]]; midplayer of a team ({{c}}, def. 1)
# [[centre]]; a place where some function or activity occurs ({{n}}, def. 2)
# {{politics|lang=sv}} The ensemble of [[centre]] [[political]] parties ({{uncountable}}, def. 3)

[[da:center]]
[[et:center]]
[[fr:center]]
[[gl:center]]
[[ko:center]]
[[io:center]]
[[it:center]]
[[kk:center]]
[[ku:center]]
[[lo:center]]
[[hu:center]]
[[ja:center]]
[[pt:center]]
[[ru:center]]
[[simple:center]]
[[fi:center]]
[[ta:center]]
[[tt:center]]
[[vi:center]]
[[tr:center]]
[[zh:center]]