==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|certain||lang=enm}}, {{term|certein||lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|certain||lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|VL.|en}} unattested form {{m|la|*certānus}}, extended form of {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|certus||fixed, resolved, certain|lang=la}}, of the same origin as {{term|cretus}}, past participle of {{term|cernere||to separate, perceive, decide}}. Displaced native {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|wis|lang=ang}}, {{term|iwis||lang=ang|certain, sure}} (from {{etyl|ang|-}}, {{term|ġewiss||lang=ang|certain, sure}} and alternative {{etyl|enm|-}} spelling {{term|sertane||lang=enm|some, certain}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈsɜːtn̩/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈsɝtn̩/|lang=en}}
* {{a|Canada}} {{IPA|/ˈsɝtən/|/ˈsɝtn̩/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-ca-certain.ogg|Audio (CA)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-certain.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(r)tən|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|cer|tain|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-adj}}

# Sure, positive, not doubting.
#: ''I was '''certain''' of my decision.''
# {{cx|obsolete|lang=en}} Determined; resolved.
#* Milton
#*: However, I with thee have fixed my lot, / '''Certain''' to undergo like doom.
# Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact.
#* Bible, Dan. ii. 45
#*: The dream is '''certain''', and the interpretation thereof sure.
# Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable.
#: ''Bankruptcy is the '''certain''' outcome of your constant gambling and lending.''
#* Dryden
#*: Virtue that directs our ways / Through '''certain''' dangers to uncertain praise.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all.
# Unfailing; infallible.
#* Mead
#*: I have often wished that I knew as '''certain''' a remedy for any other distemper.
# Fixed or stated; regular; determinate.
#* Bible, Ex. xvi. 4
#*: The people go out and gather a '''certain''' rate every day.
# Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; sometimes used independently as a noun, and meaning certain persons.
#* Bible, Luke v. 12
#*: It came to pass when he was in a '''certain''' city.
#* Macaulay
#*: About everything he wrote there was a '''certain''' natural grace and decorum.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:certain]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|not doubting}} [[uncertain]]
* {{sense|sure to happen}} [[impossible]], [[incidental]]

====Derived terms====
* [[certainly]] {{pos_adv}}

====Related terms====
* [[certainty]] {{pos_n}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sure, positive, not doubting}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أكيد|tr='akiid}}, {{qualifier|said of a person}} {{t|ar|متأكد|tr=muta'akkid}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|ciertu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сигурен}}, {{t+|bg|уверен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cert}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|akachelo'ta}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|肯定|tr=kěndìng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|確切|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|确切|tr=quèqiè|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|一定|tr=yīdìng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jistý|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|sikker|c}}, {{t+|da|sikkert|n}}, {{t|da|sikre|p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zeker}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|certain}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|ciert}}, {{t|fur|sigûr}}, {{t|fur|positîv}}
* German: {{t+|de|sicher}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βέβαιος|m}} (vévaios)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|biztos}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|viss|m}}, {{t+|is|öruggur|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cinnte}}, {{t|ga|dearfa}}, {{t|ga|deimhin}}
* Istriot: {{t|ist|sierto}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|certo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|確か|tr=tashika}}, {{t+|ja|一定|tr=ittei}}, {{t|ja|定か|tr=sadaka}}, {{qualifier|+ -の -no}} {{t+|ja|特定|tr=tokutei}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ជាក់លាក់|tr=cheakleak|sc=Khmr}}
* Latin: {{t|la|certus}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sikker}}, {{t+|no|viss}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|serteni}}
* Oriya: {{t+|or|ନିର୍ଦ୍ଦିଷ୍ଟ|sc=Orya}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pewny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|certo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cert}}, {{t|ro|anume}}, {{t+|ro|sigur}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уверенный|tr=uvérennyj}}, {{qualifier|of a fact}} {{t+|ru|определённый|tr=opredeljónnyj}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|certu}}, {{t|sc|tzertu}}, {{t|sc|tzeltu}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cinnteach}}, {{t|gd|deimhinne}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|sȉgūran}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|certu}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|gotov}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cierto}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|säker|c}}, {{t+|sv|säkert|n}}, {{t+|sv|säkra|p}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|แน่นอน}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kesin}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|çerto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[certa]] (1), [[certena]] (2)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tentu|tertentu]], [[yakin]], [[rasa|merasa]] [[pasti]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[నిశ్చయం]] (niScayam)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Determiner===
{{en-det}}

# Having been determined but unspecified.  The quality of some particular subject or object which is known by the speaker to have been specifically singled out among similar entities of its class.
#* Bible, Acts xxiii. 12
#*: '''Certain''' of the Jews banded together.
#* {{quote-book|year=1918|author={{w|W. B. Maxwell}}|title=The Mirror and the Lamp
|chapter=3|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1097634W
|passage=One saint's day in mid-term a '''certain''' newly appointed suffragan-bishop came to the school chapel, and there preached on “The Inner Life.”}}
#: {{usex|'''Certain''' people are good at running.|lang=en}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having been determined but unspecified}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|محدّد|tr=muhaddad}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|определен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cert}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|某|tr=mǒu|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|有的|tr=yǒude|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jistý|m}}, {{t+|cs|určitý|m}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|ciart}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|vis|c}}, {{t|da|vist|n}}, {{t|da|visse|p}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tietty}}, {{t+|fi|muuan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|certain}}
* German: {{t+|de|bestimmt}}, {{t+|de|gewiss}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bizonyos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|ákveðinn|m}}, {{t+|is|viss|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ある|tr=aru}}, {{t|ja|とある|tr=toaru|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|quīdam}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|viss|m|f}}, {{t+|no|visst|n}}, {{t+|no|visse|p}}, {{t+|no|enkelte}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|certo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|anumit}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|некоторый|tr=nékotoryj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|определённый|tr=opredeljónnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|некий|tr=nékij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|òdrēđen}}, {{t|sh|nȅkī}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cierto|m}}, {{t|es|cierta|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|viss|c}}, {{t+|sv|visst|n}}, {{t+|sv|vissa|p}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|belli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|often|themselves|half|269|certain|sent|keep|myself}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* [[tacrine#English|tacrine]]
* [[tercian#English|tercian]]


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|fr}} {{term|certain|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|VL.|fr}} unattested form {{m|la|*certānus}}, extended form of {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|certus||fixed, resolved, certain|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/sɛʁ.tɛ̃/}}
* {{audio|Fr-certain.ogg|Audio|lang=fr}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj}}

# [[certain#English|certain]] {{gloss|sure, positive}}
#: ''Il est '''certain''' qu'il viendra.''
#:: ''It is certain that he will arrive.''
# [[certain#English|certain]] {{gloss|fixed, determined}}
#: '''''Certaines''' personnes vont aller.''
#:: '''''Certain''' people will go.''
# [[certain#English|certain]] {{gloss|specified, particular}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l/en|certain}}; [[certainty]]

===Related terms===
* [[certainement]]
* [[certitude#French|certitude]]
* [[incertain#French|incertain]]

===Anagrams===
* [[carient#French|carient]], [[centrai#French|centrai]], [[cernait#French|cernait]], [[crainte#French|crainte]], [[criante#French|criante]], [[écriant#French|écriant]], [[encirât#French|encirât]], [[encrait#French|encrait]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|Picard dialect}} [[chertain]]

===Adjective===
{{head|fro|adjective}}

# {{l/en|certain}}; [[sure]]

====Synonyms====
* [[seür]]

====Declension====
{{fro-decl-adj}}

====Descendants====
* English: [[#English|certain]]
* French: {{l/fr|certain}}

[[ar:certain]]
[[az:certain]]
[[ca:certain]]
[[cs:certain]]
[[de:certain]]
[[et:certain]]
[[el:certain]]
[[es:certain]]
[[fr:certain]]
[[gl:certain]]
[[ko:certain]]
[[hy:certain]]
[[io:certain]]
[[it:certain]]
[[kn:certain]]
[[sw:certain]]
[[ku:certain]]
[[lo:certain]]
[[li:certain]]
[[hu:certain]]
[[mg:certain]]
[[ml:certain]]
[[my:certain]]
[[fj:certain]]
[[nl:certain]]
[[ja:certain]]
[[no:certain]]
[[or:certain]]
[[pl:certain]]
[[pt:certain]]
[[ru:certain]]
[[simple:certain]]
[[fi:certain]]
[[sv:certain]]
[[ta:certain]]
[[te:certain]]
[[th:certain]]
[[chr:certain]]
[[tr:certain]]
[[vi:certain]]
[[zh:certain]]