{{also|Appendix:Variations of "ch"}}
==Translingual==

===Etymology===
Abbreviation of {{der|mul|la|-}} {{m|la||[[confoederatio|Confoederatio]] [[Helvetica]]|Swiss confederation}}

===Symbol===
{{head|mul|symbol}}

# The [[ISO]] 3166-1 two-letter (alpha-2) code for [[Switzerland]].

[[Category:ISO 3166-1]]

----

==English==
{{wikipedia|Order of the Companions of Honour}}

===Initialism===
{{rfc-header|Initialism}}
{{head|en|initialism}}

# Companion of Honour, a British [[honour]] and [[postnomial]] abbreviation.
# [[heavy cruiser]], a variant of the [[cruiser]] type of warship
# {{lb|en|Canada}} the [[hockey club]], the ''Montreal Canadiens''
# {{lb|en|US|army|aviation}} the prefix for [[cargo helicopter]] designations
# {{lb|en|set theory}} {{io|lang=en|[[continuum hypothesis]]}}
# {{lb|en|medicine}} {{initialism of|cluster headache|lang=en}}
# {{initialism of|central heating|lang=en}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ch|H&C|H/C|HC|h/c}}

----

==Cornish==

===Letter===
{{head|kw|letter|upper case||lower case|ch}}

# Third letter of the {{w|Cornish Alphabet}}

----

==Czech==

===Letter===
{{head|cs|letter|upper case||lower case|ch|mixed case|Ch}}

# A [[digraph]], the fourteenth letter of the [[w:Czech alphabet|Czech alphabet]], after {{m|cs|H}} and before {{m|cs|I}}.

====Usage notes====
Upper case ''CH'' is usually used only in texts or parts of texts fully written in upper case. If it is the first letter of a name or of a sentence, mixed case ''Ch'' is usually used.

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}} {{g|m-p}}

# {{lb|fr|Canada}} the [[hockey]] [[club]], les ''Canadiens'' de [[Montréal]].

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{abbreviation of|lang=fr|centre hospitalier}} {{gloss|lit. ''hospital center''}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|fr|CHU}}
* {{l|fr|CHSLD}}
* {{l|fr|CLSC}}
* {{l|fr|CSSS}}
* {{l|fr|CISSS}}
* {{l|fr|CIUSSS}}

----

==Italian==

===Proper noun===
{{it-proper noun}}

# {{abbreviation of|lang=it|Chieti|nodot=1}} {{gloss|Italian town in Abruzzo}}

----

==Latvian==

===Letter===
{{head|lv|letter|upper case||lower case|ch|mixed case|Ch}}

# a letter used in older, pre-World-War-II Latvian spelling, but now replaced everywhere by {{l|lv|H}} (lower case {{l|lv|h}}).

====Usage notes====
This letter can still be found in older books, or in books written by the Latvian diaspora prior to the fall of the Soviet Union. It used to represent the sound of IPA symbol /x/, as distinct from /h/; but since these sounds have merged as /x/ in current Latvian pronunciation, <h> (= /x/) is now used in all cases.

----

==Spanish==

===Abbreviation===
{{rfc-header|Abbreviation}}
{{head|es|abbreviation}}

# [[Chihuahua]] {{gloss|Mexican state}}

===Letter===
{{head|es|letter|upper case||lower case|ch|mixed case|Ch}}

# ''[[che]]'', the fourth letter of the Spanish alphabet

====Usage notes====
Since 1994, this letter has been treated as ''[[C]]'' followed by ''[[H]]'' for collation purposes only. In 2010, this letter was officially removed by the [[RAE]] from the Spanish alphabet.

----

==Welsh==

===Letter===
{{head|cy|letter|upper case||lower case|ch|mixed case|Ch}}

# ''[[èch]]'', the fourth letter of the Welsh alphabet, after ''[[C]]'' and before ''[[D]]''

====Usage notes====
Lke the other Welsh digraphs, {{m|cy|CH}} is considered a distinct letter of the Welsh alphabet for all purposes, including collation. Thus, {{m|cy|chwech|CHWECH}} is alphabetically sorted '''after''' {{m|cy|cyllell|CYLLELL}}.