{{also|chad}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tʃæd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-Chad.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æd|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|Ċeadda}}, of obscure meaning; name of a seventh century saint, revived in the 20th century.

====Proper noun====
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Old English}}. Also a modern nickname for [[Charles]], [[Chadwick]] and similar-sounding names
# {{senseid|en|Q597180}}{{lb|en|British}} The British version of the "[[Kilroy was here]]" [[graffiti]].

=====Quotations=====
* '''1993''' [[w:Jonathan Kellerman|Jonathan Kellerman]], ''Devil's Waltz'', Random House 1998, {{ISBN|0345460715}}, page 26:
*: "What else? Anyway, here's the genealogy: Charles Junior's only son is Charles the Third - like royalty. He goes by Chip - Cassie's daddy. The mom is Cindy. The dead son was '''Chad''' - Charles the Fourth."
*: "All Cs," I said. "Sounds like they like order."
* '''1995''' [[w:Hanif Kureishi|Hanif Kureishi]], ''The Black Album'', Faber and Faber, {{ISBN|0571150861}}, pages 88, 90
*: 'He used to be called Trevor Buss.'
*: ''''Chad'''? I don't believe you.' - - -
*: 'He changed his name into Muhammad Shahabuddin Ali-Shah.'
*: 'No!'
*: 'He'd insist on the whole name. He played football and his mates got fed up saying, "Pass the ball, Muhammad Shahabuddin Ali-Shah" - - - No one passed to him. So he became '''Chad'''.'

===Etymology 2===
Believed to be from {{etyl|kr|en}} {{m|kr|tsade}} ("lake", after [[w:Lake Chad|Lake Chad]])

====Proper noun====
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{senseid|en|Q657}}A [[country]] in [[Central Africa]]. Official name: Republic of Chad.
# {{senseid|en|Q125309}}A [[lake]] in Central Africa.

=====Hypernyms=====
* {{l|en|Subsahara}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|id=Q657|country}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|Tsjad}}
* Amharic: {{t|am|ቻድ}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تْشَاد|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Չադ}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|Çad}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|Чад|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|চাদ}}
* Breton: {{t|br|Tchad}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Чад|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|ချဒ်}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Txad|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|乍得|tr=Zhàdé|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Čad|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|Tchad}}
* Dinka: {{t|din|Cad}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Tsjaad}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|Ĉado}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Tšaad}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|Kjadd|n}}, {{t|fo|Kjad|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Tšad}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Tchad}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჩადი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Tschad}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Τσαντ}}
* Hausa: {{t|ha|Cadi|f|alt=Cādì}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|צ'אד|tr=chad}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|चाड}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Csád}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Tsjad|n}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|Chad}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Sead|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Ciad}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|チャド|tr=Chado}}
* Kalenjin: {{t|kln|Chad}}
* Kamba: {{t|kam|Chad}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|Чад}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ឆាដ|tr=cʰaat|sc=Khmr}}
* Kikuyu: {{t|ki|Chad}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|^차드}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|Чад}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|Čada|f}}
* Limburgish: {{t|li|Tchad}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Čadas|m}}
* Luhya: {{t|luy|Chad}}
* Luo: {{t|luo|Chad}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Чад|m|tr=Čad}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Ċadd|alt=iċ-Ċadd}}
* Meru: {{t|mer|Chad}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|Чад}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|Tchad|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Tsjad}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|چاد|tr=čâd|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Czad}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Chade}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|Ciad|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Чад|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Ча̑д|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|Čȃd|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Ciad|m}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|චෑඩ්}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Čad|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Čád|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Chad}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Chadi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Tchad}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|Tsad}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|Чад}}
* Telugu: {{t-needed|te}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ชาด}}
* Tigrinya: {{t|ti|ቻድ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Çad}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|Çad}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|Чад|m}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|چاڈ|tr=cāḍ}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|Chad}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|Sát}}
* Yoruba: {{t|yo|Şààdì}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|id=Q125309|lake}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Tchad}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Loch Shead}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Чад|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* {{l|en|Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the world}}

[[Category:English diminutives of male given names]]
[[Category:en:Chad]]
[[Category:en:Countries in Africa]]

----


==Cebuano==

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|ceb|en|Chad}}, from {{der|ceb|ang|-}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|ceb|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Old English|lang=ceb|dot=|A=a}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|ceb|en|Chad}}, believed to be from {{der|ceb|kr|tsade}} ("lake", after [[w:Lake Chad|Lake Chad]])

====Proper noun====
{{head|ceb|proper noun}}

# a [[country]] in [[Central Africa]]
# a [[lake]] in Central Africa

[[Category:ceb:Chad]]
[[Category:ceb:Lakes]]
[[Category:ceb:Countries in Africa]]
[[Category:Cebuano male given names from English]]

----

==Asturian==
{{wikipedia|lang=ast}}

===Proper noun===
{{ast-proper noun|m}}

# {{l|en|Chad}}

[[Category:ast:Chad]]

----

==Spanish==
{{wikipedia|lang=es}}

===Proper noun===
{{es-proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Chad}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|es|chadiano}}, {{l|es|chadiana}}

[[Category:es:Chad]]
[[Category:es:Countries in Africa]]