{{also|Appendix:Variations of "chan"}}
==Ch'orti'==

===Noun===
'''chan'''

# [[snake|Snake]].

[[Category:Ch'orti' nouns]]
[[Category:caa:Snakes]]

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
See Portuguese [[chão]].

===Noun===
'''chan''' {{m}}

# [[floor]]

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{sense|particle}} {{IPA|lang=ga|[xan̪ˠ]}} {{qualifier|before ''a'', ''o'', ''u'', ''fha'', ''fho'', ''fhu''}}, {{IPAchar|[xanʲ]}} {{qualifier|before ''e'', ''i'', ''fhe'', ''fhi''}}
* {{sense|verb form}}  {{IPA|lang=ga|[xan̪ˠ]}}

===Particle===
{{infl|ga|particle|negative}}

# [[not]]

====Usage notes====
Used only in some varieties of [[w:Ulster Irish|Ulster Irish]]. Used only before a vowel sound.
* ''chan [[ólann]] [[sé]]'' – “he does not drink”
* ''chan [[fhanfaidh]] [[sé]]'' – “he will not wait”

====Related terms====
* [[cha#Irish|cha]] {{qualifier|used before a consonant}}
* [[char#Irish|char]] {{qualifier|used with the past tense}}

====Synonyms====
* [[ní#Irish|ní]] {{qualifier|used in Munster Irish, Connacht Irish, and some varieties of Ulster Irish}}

===Verb form===
{{infl|ga|verb form}}

# {{form of|past tense analytic|can|lang=Irish}}

====Usage notes====
{{ga analytic|past}}

====Related terms====
* [[chanas]] {{qualifier|1st person sing. synthetic, nonstandard}}
* [[chanais]] {{qualifier|2d person sing. synthetic, nonstandard}}
* [[chanamar]] {{qualifier|1st person pl. synthetic}}
* [[chanabhar]] {{qualifier|2d person pl. synthetic, nonstandard}}
* [[chanadar]] {{qualifier|3d person pl. synthetic, nonstandard}}
* [[canadh]] {{qualifier|autonomous}}

----

==Japanese==

===Suffix===
'''chan'''

# see ''[[-chan]]''

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''chan'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of four tones, [[chān]], [[chán]], [[chǎn]], or [[chàn]].

====Usage notes====
{{zh-tone}}

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Pronunciation===
{{IPAchar|[xanʲ]}}

===Particle===
{{infl|gd|particle}}

# [[not]]
#* '''''Chan''' fhaca mi i.''  I haven’t seen her.
#* '''''Chan''' eil mi [[fuar]].''  I am not cold.
#* ''An t-[[aran]], '''chan''' [eil] [[ùr]] e.''  The bread, it’s not fresh.

===Usage notes===
* Used with the dependent form of a verb. With the copula, the verb may be suppressed.
* This is the form used before a vowel, including before words like ''fhaca'' since lenitied /f/ is silent. Otherwise use [[cha]].
* In older Gaelic this is spelled [[cha'n]].

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''chan'''

# {{rfv-sense}}Some plant of the [[mint]] family whose [[seed]] is eaten.
#: ''Los aderezos de semillas y nueces se preparan licuando semillas remojadas de linaza, girasol, '''chan'''...'' Rodrigo Crespo A., ''Comiendo pura vida'', p. 135.

====Scientific names====
* [[Salvia chia]]

====Synonyms====
* [[chía]] {{f}}

----

==Welsh==

===Noun===
'''can'''

# [[can]] with the [[aspirate mutation]]

====Mutation====
{{cy-mut-c|an}}

[[Category:Welsh mutated nouns]]

[[es:chan]]
[[fr:chan]]
[[it:chan]]
[[lt:chan]]
[[li:chan]]
[[ja:chan]]