{{slim-wikipedia|Chaos (disambiguation)}}
{{also|Chaos}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|χάος||vast chasm, void|tr=khaos|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}

In Early Modern English used in the sense of the original Greek word. In the meaning ''primordial matter'' from the 16th century. Figurative usage in the sense "confusion, disorder" from the 17th century. The technical sense in mathematics and science dates to the 1960s.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈkeɪ.ɒs/}}, {{SAMPA|/keIQs/}}
* {{audio|en-us-chaos.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪɒs}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|es}}

# {{obsolete}} A vast [[chasm]] or [[abyss]].
# The unordered state of matter in classical accounts of [[cosmogony]]
# Any state of disorder, any confused or amorphous mixture or conglomeration.
#* {{quote-book|title=Adam, the Baby, and the Man from Mars‎|page=54|author=Irwin Edman|year=1977|passage=or out of these chaoses order may be made, out of this ferment a clear wine of life. There are '''chaoses''' that have gone too far for retrieval}}
# {{obsolete|rare}} A given [[medium]]; a space in which something exists or lives; an [[environment]].
#* '''1621''', Robert Burton, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', II.ii.3:
#*: What is the centre of the earth? is it pure element only, as Aristotle decrees, inhabited (as Paracelsus thinks) with creatures whose '''chaos''' is the earth: or with fairies, as the woods and waters (according to him) are with nymphs, or as the air with spirits?
# {{mathematics}} Behaviour of iterative non-linear systems in which arbitrarily small variations in initial conditions become magnified over time.

====Synonyms====
* See [[Wikisaurus:disorder]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|classical cosmogony}} [[cosmos]]
* {{sense|state of disorder}} [[order]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from chaos}}
* [[chaos theory]]
* [[chaotic]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[controlled chaos]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in classical cosmogony}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χάος|n|tr=cháos}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state of disorder}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|kaos|m|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فوضى|tr=fudjh}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|քաոս|tr=k'aos}}
* [[Azeri]]: {{t|az|hərc-mərclik|xs=Azeri}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|haos|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хаос|m}},  {{t|bg|безредие|n}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|caos|m}}
* Chinese: [[纷乱]] (fēnluàn)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|haos|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|kaos|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|chaos|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ĥaoso|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kaos}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaaos}}, {{t-|fi|epäjärjestys}}, {{t-|fi|sekasorto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chaos|m}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|caos|m|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|Unordnung|f}}, {{t+|de|Chaos|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χάος|n|tr=cháos}}
* Hebrew: [[תוהו]] {{romanization of Hebrew|tóhu}}, [[תוהו ובוהו]] {{romanization of Hebrew|tóhu vavóhu}}, [[כאוס]] {{romanization of Hebrew|kéos}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|káosz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|ringulreið|f}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|kaoso|xs=Ido}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kekacauan|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: chaos
* Italian: {{t-|it|caos|m}}
* Japanese: [[ごたごた]] (gota-gota)
* Korean: {{t+|ko|혼돈|tr=chondon|sc=Hang}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|haoss|m|xs=Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|chaosas|m|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|chaos|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caos|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|haos|n}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t-|rm|caos|m|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: [[хаос]] (kháos, khaós) {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[хаос#Serbian|хаос]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[haos#Serbian|haos]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caos}}
* Swahili: [[kesheshe]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kaos|n}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|hỗn loạn|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mathematics}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хаос|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χάος|n|tr=chàos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[混乱]] (こんらん, konran), [[無秩序]] (むちつじょ, muchitsujo), [[混沌]] (こんとん, konton)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ja}} {{t-|ja|カオス|tr=kaosu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[entropy]]
* [[discord]]
* [[capricious]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=m|-|-}}

# [[#English|chaos]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|chaos|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|fr}} {{term|χάος|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kao/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-chaos.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-unc|m}}

# [[#English|chaos]]

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|pl}} {{term|χάος||vast chasm, void|tr=khaos|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈxaɔs̪/|lang=pl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|chaos]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun-sing
|chaos
|chaosu
|chaosowi
|chaos
|chaosem
|chaosie
|chaosie
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[chaotyczny]]

[[ar:chaos]]
[[cs:chaos]]
[[de:chaos]]
[[et:chaos]]
[[el:chaos]]
[[fa:chaos]]
[[fr:chaos]]
[[gl:chaos]]
[[io:chaos]]
[[it:chaos]]
[[kn:chaos]]
[[sw:chaos]]
[[hu:chaos]]
[[ml:chaos]]
[[my:chaos]]
[[nl:chaos]]
[[no:chaos]]
[[pl:chaos]]
[[pt:chaos]]
[[ru:chaos]]
[[simple:chaos]]
[[fi:chaos]]
[[sv:chaos]]
[[ta:chaos]]
[[te:chaos]]
[[vi:chaos]]
[[zh:chaos]]