==English==
{{wikipedia|Charade (disambiguation)}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|fr|charade}}, {{m|fr|charrade||[[prattle]], [[idle]] [[conversation]]; a [[kind]] of [[riddle]]}}, probably from {{der|en|oc|charrada||[[conversation]]; [[chatter]]}}, from {{m|oc|charrar||to [[chat]]; to [[chatter]]}} + {{m|oc|-ada}}.<ref>"charade, ''n.''" in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'', 3rd ed., 2014.</ref> As a round of the game, originally a clipping of {{m|en|acting charade}} but now usually understood and formed as a back-formation from {{m|en|charades}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|shərädʹ|shərādʹ}}, {{IPA|/ʃəˈɹɑːd/|/ʃəˈɹeɪd/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GA}} {{enPR|shərādʹ}}, {{IPA|/ʃəˈɹeɪd/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪd|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|literature|archaic}} A [[genre]] of [[riddle]]s where the [[clue]]s to the [[answer]] are [[description]]s or [[pun]]s on its [[syllable]]s, with a [[final]] [[clue]] to the [[whole]].
#* '''1878''', "[[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition/Charade|Charade]]" in the [[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition|''Encyclopædia Britannica'', 9th ed.]], [[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition/Volume V|Vol. V]], p. 398:
#*: '''CHARADE''', a trifling species of composition, or quasi-literary form of amusement, which may perhaps be best defined as a punning enigma propounded in a series of descriptions. A word is taken of two or more syllables, each forming a distinct word; each of these is described in verse or prose, as aptly and enigmatically as possible; and the same process is applied to the whole word. The neater and briefer the descriptive parts of the problem, the better the '''charade''' will be. In selecting words for '''charades''', special attention should be paid to the absolute quality of the syllables composing them, inaccuracy in trifles of this sort depriving them of what little claim to merit they may possess. The brilliant rhythmic trifles of W. Mackworth Praed are well known. Of representative prose '''charades''', the following specimens are perhaps as good as could be selected:—“My first, with the most rooted antipathy to a Frenchman, prides himself, whenever they meet, upon sticking close to his jacket; my second has many virtues, nor is its least that it gives its name to my first; my whole may I never catch!” “My first is company; my second shuns company; my third collects company; and my whole amuses company.” The solutions are ''Tar-tar'' and ''Co-nun-drum''.
# {{lb|en|uncommon}} A [[single]] [[round]] of the [[game]] [[charades]], an [[act]]ed [[form]] of the [[earlier]] [[riddle]]s.
#* '''1911''', "[[:s:1911 Encyclopædia Britannica/Charade|Charade]]" in the [[:s:1911 Encyclopædia Britannica|''Encyclopædia Britannica'', 11th ed.]], [[:s:1911 Encyclopædia Britannica/Volume V|Vol. V]], p. 856:
#*: ...The most popular form of this amusement is the acted '''charade''', in which the meaning of the different syllables is acted out on the stage, the audience being left to guess each syllable and thus, combining the meaning of all the syllables, the whole word. A brilliant example of the acted '''charade''' is described in [[w:William Makepeace Thackeray|Thackeray]]’s ''[[:s:Vanity Fair (Thackeray)/Chapter 51|Vanity Fair]]''.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[play]] [[resembling]] the [[game]] [[charades]], ''[[particularly]]'' [[due to]] [[poor]] [[acting]].
# A [[deception]] or [[pretense]], ''[[originally]]'' an [[absurdly]] [[obvious]] one but ''[[now]]'' in [[general]] [[use]].
#: ''This whole '''charade''' is absurd.''

===Synonyms===
* {{sense|round of the game}} {{l|en|acted charade}}, {{l|en|dumb charade}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}
* {{sense|badly-acted drama; absurd deception}} {{l|en|farce}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|riddle}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|xarada|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|charade|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Scharade|f}}, {{t|de|Silbenrätsel|n}}, {{t|de|Versrätsel|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sciarada|f}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|charrada|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|charada|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|acted form of the earlier riddles}}
* German: {{t+|de|Scharade|f}}, {{t|de|pantomimisches Rätsel|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-see|party game|charades}}
{{trans-top|absurd deception}}
* German: {{t+|de|Scharade|f}}, {{t+|de|Farce|f}}, {{t+|de|Affentheater|n}}, {{t|de|Affenzirkus|m}}, {{t|de|unwürdiges Schauspiel|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* See also [[Thesaurus:fake]]
* {{l|en|sham}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|charad|es}}

# To act out a charade (of); to [[gesture]]; to [[pretend]].
#*'''2015''', Graeme Fife, ''Tour de France: The History, The Legend, The Riders'':
#*:She flaps her hands and arms, eyes glaring, head shaking – '''charading''' ''Non, non, NON!''
#*'''2017''', David Friend, ''The Naughty Nineties'':
#*:Private, wholesome family time could no longer '''charade''' as being either private or wholly wholesome.

====Citations====
<references/>

====See also====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:English back-formations]]
[[Category:English clippings]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Probably from {{etyl|oc|fr}} {{m|oc|charrado}}, from {{m|oc|charrá||to chat}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʃaʁad/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[charade#English|charade]] (kind of riddle)
# Something [[bizarre]] or hard to understand.
#: ''Cet ouvrage est une vraie '''charade'''.''
#:: This book is really hard to understand, to follow.
# {{lb|fr|Louisiana French|Cajun French}} a [[chat]], [[conversation]]

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}