{{also|charles|charlés}}
==English==
{{Wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|fr|Charles}}, from {{der|en|fro|Charles}}, {{m|fro|Carles}}, from {{der|en|la|Carolus}}, from and also reinfluenced by {{der|en|goh|Karl}}, from {{der|en|gem-pro|*karilaz|*karlaz|t=free man}}; compare the English word {{m|en|churl}} and the {{cog|de|Kerl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/tʃɑɹlz/|lang=en}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/tʃɑːlz/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɑː(ɹ)lz|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Germanic languages}}.
#* '''1599''' William Shakespeare, ''King Henry V'', Act I, Scene II:
#*: '''Charles''' the Great / Subdued the Saxons, and did seat the French / Beyond the river Sala, in the year / Eight hundred five.
#* '''1844''' Edgar Allan Poe: ''Thou Art the Man'':
#*: - - - there never was any person named '''Charles''' who was not an open, manly, honest, good-natured, and frank-hearted fellow, with a rich, clear, voice, that did you good to hear it, and an eye that looked at you always straight at the face, as much as to say: "I have a clear conscience myself, am afraid of no man, and am altogether above doing a mean action." And thus all the hearty, careless,'walking gentlemen' of the stage are very certain to be called '''Charles'''. ( ''Note: Charles turns out to be the villain of this story.'')
#* '''1988''' Ed McBain: ''The House That Jack Built'': page 212:
#*: - - - spoke the way the English do, funny, you know? His name was Roger, I think. Or Nigel. Something like that." "How about '''Charles'''?" "'''Charles'''? Well, yes, it could have been.'''Charles''' does sound English, doesn't it? Their prince is named '''Charles''', isn't he?"
# {{surname|patronymic|from=given names}}

====Usage notes====
Common given name since the Middle Ages.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Charles County}}
* {{l|en|Charles Mix County}}
* {{l|en|Lake Charles}}
* {{l|en|St. Charles}}

====Related terms====
* ''diminutives:'' [[Charley]], [[Charlie]], [[Chuck]], [[Chucky]], [[Chas]], [[Chaz]], [[Chip]]
* ''variants:'' [[Carl]], [[Carroll]], [[Karl]], [[Cathal]]
* ''feminine forms:'' [[Carla]], [[Carly]], [[Carol]], [[Carole]], [[Carolina]], [[Caroline]], [[Callie]], [[Carrie]], [[Charlene]], [[Charlotte]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|given name}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تْشَارْلْز|m}}
* Aragonese: {{t|an|Carlos|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|চার্লস|tr=charlôs}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|Charlez|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Carles|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|查理|tr=Chálǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|查爾斯|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|查尔斯|tr=Chá'ěrsī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Karel|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Karl}}, {{t|da|Carl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Karel|m}}, {{t|nl|Charel}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Karlo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|Kaarel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Kaarle}}, {{t+|fi|Kaarlo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Charles}}
* German: {{t+|de|Karl}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Κάρολος|m|sc=Grek}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|Kaali}}, {{t|kl|Kaarali}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|Kale}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|צ'ארלס|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|चार्ल्स|tr=cārls|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Károly}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Karl}}
* Inuktitut: {{t|iu|ᑦᓴᕐᓕᔅ|sc=Cans}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Séarlas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Carlo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|チャールズ|tr=Chāruzu|sc=Jpan}} {{t|ja|シャルル|tr=Sharuru|sc=Jpan}} {{qualifier|of French people}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|찰스|tr=Chalseu}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|Carolus}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Kārlis|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Karolis|m}}
* Low German:
*: German Low German: {{t|nds-de|Korl}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|Чарлс|m}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Karlu|m}}, {{t|mt|Karmenu|m}}, {{t|mt|Karmena|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Çhalse|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|Tāre}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|Charles|m}}, {{t|nrf|Charlot|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Karl}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|چارلز|tr=Čârlz|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Karol|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Carlos|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|Carol}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Карл|m}}, {{t|ru|Чарльз|m}} {{qualifier|transliteration}}, {{t+|ru|Шарль|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Teàrlach}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|Charles|m}}, {{t|sh|Карло}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Carlu|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Karol|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Kárel|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Carlos|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Karl}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Siarl|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* According to the 2010 United States Census, ''Charles'' is the 548<sup>th</sup> most common surname in the United States, belonging to 61,211 individuals. ''Charles'' is most common among Black (53.0%) individuals.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|Lachers|clasher|larches|raschel}}

----

==Cebuano==

===Etymology===
From {{der|ceb|en|Charles}}, from {{der|ceb|fr|Charles}}, from {{der|ceb|fro|Charles}}, {{m|fro|Carles}}, from {{der|ceb|la|Carolus}}, from and also reinfluenced by {{der|ceb|goh|Karl}}, from {{der|ceb|gem-pro|*karilaz|*karlaz|t=free man}}; compare the English word {{m|en|churl}} and the {{cog|de|Kerl}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|ceb|noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=ceb|from=Russian|dot=|A=a}}

[[Category:Cebuano male given names from English]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|fr}} {{m|fro|Charles}}, {{m|fro|Carles}}, from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{m|la|Carolus}}, from {{etyl|gem|fr}}.

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun|m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}, cognate to English [[Charles#English|Charles]]

----

==Norman==

===Proper noun===
{{head|nrf|proper noun|g=m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=nrf}}.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nrf|Charlot}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|nrf|Tchèrli}}

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|Carles}}
* {{l|fro|Karles}}

===Etymology===
See {{m|fro|Charlon}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈt͡ʃar.ləs/|lang=fro}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|fro|proper noun form|g=m}}

# {{form of|nominative|Charlon|lang=fro}}

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|Charles}}
* French: {{l|fr|Charles}}

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|c}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}} borrowed from English and French.