{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tʃæt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-chat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
** [[Rhymes:English:-æt|Rhymes: -æt]]

===Etymology 1===
Abbreviation of ''[[chatter]]''.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|chat|t|ing}}

# To be [[engage]]d in informal [[conversation]].
# To talk more than a few words.
# To converse on a talk show.
# To exchange [[text]] or [[voice]] [[message]]s in [[real time]] through a [[computer network]], as if having a [[face-to-face]] conversation.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to chat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kletsen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|discuter}}, {{t|fr|converser}} (1, 3); {{t|fr|clavarder}}, {{t+|fr|chatter}} (4), [[bavarder]]
* German: sich {{t-|de|unterhalten}}, {{t|de|plaudern}} (1, 3); {{t|de|schwatzen}}, {{t|de|klönen}} (1, 2); {{t|de|chatten}} (4)
* [[Guaraní]]: [[mongeta]] (interlocutor explicit) (1); [[ñemongeta]] (interlocutor implicit) (1); [[ñomongeta]] (to each other) (1)
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conversar|xs=Interlingua}}, {{t|ia|confabular|xs=Interlingua}} (1); {{t|ia|chattar|xs=Interlingua}} (4)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conversar}}, {{t|pt|bater papo}}, {{t-|pt|charlar}} (1); {{t|pt|bater papo}}, {{t+|pt|conversar}} por ''chat'' (4)
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|conversa}}, {{t-|ro|discuta}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|platicar}}, {{t-|es|charlar}}; {{t+|es|chatear}} (''Internet'')
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[mongetá]] (interlocutor explicit) (1); [[nhemongetá]] (interlocutor implicit) (1); [[nhomongetá]] (to each other) (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} Informal conversation.
# A conversation to stop an argument or settle situations.
# An exchange of text or voice messages in real time through a computer network, resembling a face-to-face conversation.
# A conversation on a talk show.
# Any of various small [[Old World]] [[passerine]] [[bird]]s in the subfamily ''[[Saxicolini]]'' that feed on [[insect]]s.

====Derived terms====
* [[backchat]]
* [[chatroom]]
* [[chat up]]
* [[stonechat]]
* [[whinchat]]

=====Translations=====
{{rfc-level|Translations at L4+ not in L3 POS section}}
{{top}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|чат|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: [[jutella]]
* [[Guaraní]]: [[ñomongeta]] (1)
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conversation|xs=Interlingua}}, {{t-|ia|confabulation|xs=Interlingua}} (1); ''chat'' (2)
* French: {{t+|fr|discussion}} (1,3); {{t|fr|clavardage}}, ''chat'' (3)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conversa}}, {{t|pt|bate-papo}} (1);
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|conversaţie}} {{f}}, {{t|ro|discuţie}} {{f}}
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[nhomongetá]] (1)
* Spanish: {{t-|es|charlar}}, {{t+|es|charla}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Origin unknown.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{mining}} [[ore|Ore]] with parts of the stone or [[matrix]] still adhering to it.
#* '''2006''', Thomas Pynchon, ''Against the Day'', Vintage 2007, p. 441:
#*: Frank had been looking at calcite crystals for a while now [...] among the '''chats''' or zinc tailings of the Lake County mines, down here in the silver lodes of the Vita Madre and so forth

[[Category:Birds]]

----

==Cantonese==

===Number===
'''chat'''

# [[seven]]. &rarr; [[七]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Late Latin ''[[cattus]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʃa/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# (male) [[cat]], [[tom]], [[tomcat]]
# [[tag]], [[tig]] (children's game)

====Related terms====
{{top3}}
* [[cataire]], [[chataire]]
* [[chat-huant]]
* [[chatière]]
* [[chaton]]
* [[chatonner]]
{{mid3}}
* [[chatte]]
* [[chattemite]]
* [[chatterie]]
* [[chat-tigre]]
* [[haret]]
{{mid3}}
* [[matou]]
* [[minet]]
* [[minou]]
* [[mistigri]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
* [[chat échaudé craint l'eau froide]]
* [[quant le chat n'est pas là les souris dansent]]

[[Category:fr:Mammals]]

----

==Irish==

===Noun===
'''chat'''

# {{mutation of|cat}}

[[cs:chat]]
[[de:chat]]
[[et:chat]]
[[el:chat]]
[[es:chat]]
[[fa:chat]]
[[fo:chat]]
[[fr:chat]]
[[fy:chat]]
[[gd:chat]]
[[gl:chat]]
[[ko:chat]]
[[hy:chat]]
[[io:chat]]
[[id:chat]]
[[it:chat]]
[[hu:chat]]
[[nl:chat]]
[[ja:chat]]
[[no:chat]]
[[oc:chat]]
[[ug:chat]]
[[pl:chat]]
[[ro:chat]]
[[ru:chat]]
[[sk:chat]]
[[fi:chat]]
[[sv:chat]]
[[ta:chat]]
[[te:chat]]
[[vi:chat]]
[[tr:chat]]
[[zh:chat]]