==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|chēʹzē}}, {{IPA|/ˈtʃiːzi/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːzi|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|cheezie}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|cheese|y|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Of or relating to [[cheese]].
#: ''This sandwich is full of '''cheesy''' goodness.''
# Resembling, or containing cheese.
#* '''1949''', {{w|George Orwell}}, ''{{w|Nineteen Eighty-Four}}'', Part One, Chapter 8, [http://www.gutenberg.net.au/ebooks01/0100021h.html]
#*: He pushed open the door, and a hideous '''cheesy''' smell of sour beer hit him in the face.
#* '''2005''', {{w|Thomas Mann}}, ''{{w|Joseph and His Brothers}}'', translated by {{w|John E. Woods}}, New York: Everyman's Library, "Joseph in Egypt," Part 3, p. 633,
#*: He saw skin of every shade, from obsidian black through all the stages of brown and yellow to '''cheesy''' white, he even saw yellow hair and azure-colored eyes, faces and garments of every cut—he saw humanity.
#: {{ux|en|a '''cheesy''' flavor'';&nbsp; '''cheesy''' nachos}}
#: {{ux|en|I like pizzas with a '''cheesy''' crust.}}
# {{lb|en|informal}} [[cheap|Cheap]], of poor quality.
#* '''1968''', {{w|Hermann Hesse}}, ''{{w|Beneath the Wheel}}, translated by Michael Roloff, Bantam Books, 1970, Chapter One, p. 30,
#*: He would be apprenticed to some '''cheesy''' shop or become a clerk in an office and his entire life he would be one of the ordinary poor people, whom he despised and wanted to surpass.
#* '''1977''', {{w|Allen Ginsberg}}, ''Journals: Early Fifties, Early Sixties'', edited by Gordon Ball, New York: Grove Press, "June 17, 1952," p. 19,
#*: I tagged along behind this culturally accomplished beast intelligence in my scuffed handmedown shoes, unpressed illfitting post adolescent suit, dirt ringed shirt and '''cheesy''' tie, hair askew and book underarm, perspiring perhaps.
# {{lb|en|informal}} [[overdramatic|Overdramatic]], [[excessively]] [[emotional]] or [[clichéd]], [[trite]], [[contrived]].
#* '''...''', Michael Clarkson, ''The Secret Life of {{w|Glenn Gould}}: A Genius in Love'', Toronto: ECW Press, Chapter Four, p. 54,
#*: Another night, when the local entertainers had gone home, Gould went into the empty lounge to play piano with a '''cheesy''' string of colored lights overhead and bongo drums at his side.
#: {{ux|en|a '''cheesy''' song;&nbsp; a '''cheesy''' movie}}
# {{qualifier|of a smile or grin}} [[exaggerated|Exaggerated]] and likely to be [[forced]] or [[insincere]].
#* {{quote-text|year=2008|author=Jeff Spanke|title=Second Hand Out|page=86|passage=Needless to say, toward the end of Martin's first term, the relationship he once enjoyed with President Waverly had evolved into a slapdash charade of cheap promises and '''cheesy''' smiles.}}
#* '''2012''', Ginny Felch, ''Photographing Children Photo Workshop''
#*: There is something about 5- and 6-year-olds that makes them ever-ready to pose with the big, '''cheesy''' grin with no provocation.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|of poor quality through being overdramatic, excessively emotional or clichéd, trite, contrived, shoddy}}, [[cheeseball]], [[corny]], [[tacky]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|cheesiness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of cheese}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|պանրային|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|от сирене}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fromageux}}
* German: {{t+|de|käsig}}, {{t+|de|Käse|alt=Käse-}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|fromajala}}, {{t+|io|fromajoza}}, {{t+|io|fromajatra}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|caseoso}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|serowy|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caseoso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сы́рный}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|sirni}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|caseoso}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|resembling cheese}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|պանրանման|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|с вкус на сирене}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|juustomainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fromageux}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|caseoso}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|brânzos}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|творо́жистый}}, {{t|ru|казео́зный}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|sirast}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|caseoso}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|overdramatic, clichéd}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|էժանագին|sc=Armn}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|陳腐|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|陈腐|tr=chénfǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kýčovitý|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|cheesy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|kitsch}}
* German: {{t+|de|kitschig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nyálas}}, {{t+|hu|szirupos}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|安っぽい|tr=yasuppoi}}, {{t|ja|見掛け倒し|tr=みかけだおしの, mikakedaoshi no|alt=見掛け倒しの|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kiczowaty|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cafona}}, {{t+|pt|piegas}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|низкопро́бный}}, {{t+|ru|дрянно́й}}, {{t+|ru|зата́сканный}}, {{t+|ru|изби́тый}}, {{t+|ru|ки́тчевый}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sensiblero}}, {{t|es|hortera}}, {{t+|es|cursi}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|cawslyd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[cy:cheesy]]
[[et:cheesy]]
[[fa:cheesy]]
[[fr:cheesy]]
[[ko:cheesy]]
[[io:cheesy]]
[[it:cheesy]]
[[ku:cheesy]]
[[ml:cheesy]]
[[my:cheesy]]
[[km:cheesy]]
[[pl:cheesy]]
[[ru:cheesy]]
[[fi:cheesy]]
[[sv:cheesy]]
[[vi:cheesy]]
[[zh:cheesy]]