{{interwiktionary|code=zh}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|chī-nēzʹ}}, {{IPA|/tʃaɪˈniːz/}}, {{SAMPA|/tSaI"ni:z/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːz|-iːz]]

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|Chinese|-}}

#{{uncountable}} The class of [[Sino-Tibetan]] [[dialect]]s including [[Mandarin]], [[Wu]], [[Cantonese]], [[Min Nan]] and others. Abbreviation: '''Chin''' or '''Chin.'''
#{{rfv-sense}}{{uncountable}} The [[logographic]] writing system shared by this [[language family]].
#:*Hong Kong uses traditional '''Chinese'''.
#{{uncountable}} [[Mandarin]], the main language spoken in [[China]].
#(''used as a plural and always preceded by'' '''the''') The people of China.
#:*'''The Chinese''' have an incredible history.
#{{countable}} A person born in China.
#:*The place was empty till two '''Chinese''' walked in.
#{{cattag|UK|countable|informal}} A Chinese meal.
#:*We're going out tonight for a '''Chinese'''.
#{{cattag|US|uncountable|informal}} [[Chinese food]].
#:*Do you care for '''Chinese''' tonight?

penis

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

#Of [[China]], its languages or people

====Synonyms====
*(''of China, its language or people''): [[Sinic]], [[Sino-]] (''prefix'')

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[صيني]]}} {{Unicode|(ʂí:ni)}} {{m}}
*Bosnian: [[kineski]] ''m sg/pl''
*[[Breton]]: [[sinaat]]
*Bulgarian: [[китайски]] (kitájski) {{m}}, {{p}}
*Chinese:
:Cantonese: [[中國]]/[[中国]] (Jūnggwok); [[中國嘅]]/[[中国嘅]] (Jūnggwok ge); [[中國的]]/[[中国的]] (Jūnggwok dīk) ''written only''; [[中華]]/[[中华]] (Jūngw<u>à</u>)
:Mandarin: [[中國]]/[[中国]] (Zhōngguó); [[中國的]], [[中国的]] (Zhōngguó de); [[中華]]/[[中华]] (Zhōnghuá)
*Danish: [[kinesisk]]
*Dutch: [[Chinees]], Chinese
*Filipino: [[Tsina]]
*Finnish: [[kiinalainen]]
*French: [[chinois]] {{m}}, chinoise {{f}}
*German: [[chinesisch]]
*Greek: [[σινικός]] (sinikós), [[κινέζικος]] (kinézikos) {{m}}, [[σινική]] (sinikí), [[κινέζικη]] (kinéziki) {{f}}, [[σινικό]] (sinikó), [[κινέζικο]] (kinéziko) {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[kínai]]
*Icelandic: [[kínverskur]] {{m}}, [[kínversk]] {{f}}, [[kínverskt]] {{n}}, [[kínverskir]] {{p}},  [[kínverskar]] {{f}}{{p}}, [[kínversk]] {{n}}{{p}}
*Italian: [[cinese]] {{mf}}
*Japanese: [[中国]] ([[ちゅうごく]], chūgoku) (''in composite words''), [[中国の]] ([[ちゅうごくの]], chūgoku no)
*Korean: [[중국]] ([[中國]], Jungguk; ''associative noun''); [[중]]- ([[中]]-, Jung-; ''as prefix'')
*Latin: [[Sinica]]
*Lithuanian: [[kiniškas]] {{m}}, [[kiniška]] {{f}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[چینی]]}} (Chini)
*Portuguese: [[chinês]] {{m}}, [[chinesa]] {{f}}, [[sino]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[chinez]] {{m}}, [[chineză]] {{f}}, [[chinezi]] {{p}}, [[chineze]] {{fpl}}
*Russian: [[китайский]] (kitájskij) {{m}}
*Serbian:
:*Cyrillic: [[кинески]] ''m sg/pl''
:*Roman: [[kineski]] ''m sg/pl''
*Slovene: [[kitajski]] {{m}}, [[kitajska]] {{f}}, [[kitajsko]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[chino]] {{m}}, [[china]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[kinesisk]], [[kinesiskt]] {{n}}, [[kinesiska]] {{p}}
*Thai: {{THchar|[[หมวย]]}} (mŭay)
*Vietnamese: [[Trung Quốc]], [[Tàu]]
{{bottom}}

===External links===
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Chinese-english/ Chinese–English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster’s Dictionary] — the Rosetta Edition.
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Gan|code=gan}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Hakka|code=hak}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Huizhou|code=czh}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Jinyu|code=cjy}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Mandarin|code=cmn}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Min Bei|code=mnp}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Min Dong|code=cdo}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Min Nan|code=nan}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Min Zhong|code=czo}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Pu-Xian|code=cpx}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Wu|code=wuu}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Xiang|code=hsn}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Chinese Yue|code=yue}}

[[af:Chinese]]
[[de:Chinese]]
[[el:Chinese]]
[[fr:Chinese]]
[[gu:Chinese]]
[[ko:Chinese]]
[[hy:Chinese]]
[[hi:Chinese]]
[[io:Chinese]]
[[it:Chinese]]
[[ku:Chinese]]
[[hu:Chinese]]
[[nl:Chinese]]
[[pt:Chinese]]
[[ru:Chinese]]
[[fi:Chinese]]
[[sv:Chinese]]
[[vi:Chinese]]
[[tr:Chinese]]
[[zh:Chinese]]