{{wikipedia|dab=chop}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|chŏp}}, {{IPA|/ʧɒp/}}, {{SAMPA|/tSQp/}}
* {{audio|en-us-chop.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɒp}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[choppen#Middle English|choppen]]'', var. of ''[[chappen#Middle English|chappen]]'' "to chop". Akin to {{etyl|nld|-}} ''[[kappen#Dutch|kappen]]'' "to cut", {{etyl|ang|-}} ''[[cippian#Old English|-cippian]]'' (eg. ''[[forcippian#Old English|forcippian]]'' "to cut off"). More at [[chip]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A cut of meat, often containing a section of a [[rib]].
#: ''I only like lamb '''''chops''''' with mint jelly.''
# A blow with an [[axe]], [[cleaver]], or similar [[utensil]].
#: ''It should take just one good '''''chop''''' to fell the sapling.''
# [[ocean|Ocean]] [[wave]]s, generally caused by [[wind]], [[distinguished]] from [[swell]] by being smaller and not lasting as long.
# {{poker}} The result of a tied poker hand
# {{informal|with "the"}} Termination, especially from employment.

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|dismissal, especially from employment (informal)}} [[axe]], [[pink slip]], [[sack]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a cut of meat}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|пържола|f}},  {{t|bg|котлет|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kyljys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|Kotelett|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|chuleta|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a blow with an axe, cleaver, or similar utensil}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сечащ удар}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hieb|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tajada|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dismissal, especially from employment}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|уволнение|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
<!--Remove this table once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* Chinese: [[剁]]
* French: [[côtelette]] {{f}}, [[coup de hache]] {{m}}
{{checktrans-mid}}
* Italian: [[taglio]] {{m}}
* Japanese: [[チョップ]] (Chiyoppu)
* Korean: [[절단]] (cheoldan)
* Portuguese: [[costoleta]] {{f}} (1)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|chops|chopping|chopped|chopped}}

# {{transitive}} To cut into pieces with short, vigorous [[cutting]] motions.
#: '''''chop''' wood''
#: '''''chop''' an onion''
# {{transitive}} To [[sever]] with an [[axe]] or similar implement.
#: '''''Chop''' off his head.''
# {{context|transitive|baseball}} To hit the ball downward so that it takes a high bounce.
# {{poker}} To divide the [[pot]] (or tournament prize) between two or more players.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to chop}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|накълцвам}}, {{t+|bg|цепя}}, {{t+|bg|сека}}, {{t+|bg|отсичам}}
* Chinese: [[砍]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakata}}, {{t-|fi|pilkkoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couper}}, {{t+|fr|hacher}}, {{t+|fr|découper}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[hacken]], [[zerhacken]], [[abhacken]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|tagliare}}
* Portuguese: [[picar]], [[decepar]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cortar}}, {{t+|es|picar}}, {{t-|es|tajar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[chop chop]]
* [[chopper]]
* [[chopping board]]
* [[chops]]
* [[chopstick]]
* [[choppy]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[try out one's own chops]]

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|hi}} '''[[छाप]]''' ćhāp (stamp)

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An official stamp or [[seal]].
# Mark indicating [[nature]], [[quality]], or [[brand]].

----

==Nigerian Pidgin==
{{rfe|lang=pcm}}
===Verb===
'''chop'''
#[[eat]]

[[Category:Nigerian Pidgin verbs]]

[[et:chop]]
[[fr:chop]]
[[io:chop]]
[[it:chop]]
[[kn:chop]]
[[hu:chop]]
[[ml:chop]]
[[pl:chop]]
[[pt:chop]]
[[ru:chop]]
[[simple:chop]]
[[fi:chop]]
[[ta:chop]]
[[te:chop]]
[[vi:chop]]
[[zh:chop]]