==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|Χριστόφορος||Christ-bearing|lang=grc}}. The meaning of the name suggested the legend of St. Christopher carrying the Christ child across water.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈkɹɪs.tə.fə(ɹ)/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"kr\Is.t@.f@(r\)/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈkɹɪs.tə.fɚ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"kr\Is.t@.f@`/}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Ancient Greek|}}.
#* '''1594''' William Shakespeare: ''The Taming of the Shrew'': Induction, Scene II:
#*: Am not I '''Christopher''' Sly, old Sly's son, of Burtonheath; by birth a pedlar, by education a card-maker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
#* '''1934''' [[w:Dorothy L. Sayers|Dorothy Sayers]], ''The Nine Tailors'':
#*: - - - a baby, which also happened to fall due, was baptized "Paul" ( for the church ) "'''Christopher'''" ( because St. '''Christopher''' had to do with rivers and ferries ), the Rector strenuously resisting the parents' desire to call it "Van Weyden Flood".
# {{surname|patronymic|from=given names}}

====Related terms====
* ''diminutives:'' [[Chris]], [[Christie]], [[Chip]], [[Kit]]
* ''variants:'' [[Kester]], [[Kristopher]]
* ''feminine forms:'' [[Christine]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a male given name}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|كريستوفر|tr=Kristoofer}}
* Aragonese: {{t|an|Cristofo}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Կրիսդապոր|tr=Krisdapor}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|Kristobal}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|ক্রিস্টোফার}}
* Breton: {{t|br|Kristof}}, {{t|br|Kristol}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Христо|tr=Hristo}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Cristòfol}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|克里斯托弗|tr=Kèlǐsituofú}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|Kitto}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|Kryštof}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Christoffer}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Christoffel}}, {{t|nl|Kristof}}, {{t|nl|Kristoffel}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Kristoforo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|Kristofer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Risto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Christophe}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|Cristovo}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ქრისტეფორე}}
* German: {{t+|de|Christoph}}, {{t|de|Christof}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Χριστόφορος|tr=Christóphoros}}, {{t+|el|Χρήστος|tr=Hrḗstos}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|כריסטופר|tr=Kristofer}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|क्रिस्तोफर|tr=Kristophar}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Kristóf}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Kristófer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Críostóir}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Cristoforo}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|クリストファー|tr=Kurisutofā}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|크리스토퍼|tr=keuriseutopeo}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Christophorus}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Kristaps}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Kristupas}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Ħamallu}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|क्रिस्टोफर|m|tr=krisṭofara|sc=Deva}}
* Middle English: {{t|enm|Cristofre}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Kristoffer}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|Cristòl}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Krzysztof}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Cristóvão}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|Кристофер}}, {{t|ru|Христофор|tr=Xristófor}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Crìsdean|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Cristòfuru}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Kryštof}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|Krištof}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Cristóbal}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Kristoffer}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|கிரிஸ்டோபர்|tr=Kristopar}}
* Thai: {{t|th|คริสโตเฟอร์|tr=Kristofeur}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|Kristof}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Cristoffer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Danish==

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=da}} borrowed from English.

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}, borrowed from  the English equivalent of [[Christophe]].

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
'''Christopher'''

# {{given name|male|lang=de}} borrowed from English.

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
'''Christopher'''

# {{given name|male|lang=no}} borrowed from English.

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
'''Christopher'''

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}} borrowed from English.

[[ca:Christopher]]
[[de:Christopher]]
[[es:Christopher]]
[[fr:Christopher]]
[[ko:Christopher]]
[[is:Christopher]]
[[li:Christopher]]
[[hu:Christopher]]
[[pl:Christopher]]
[[pt:Christopher]]
[[ru:Christopher]]
[[sr:Christopher]]
[[fi:Christopher]]
[[th:Christopher]]
[[zh:Christopher]]