==English==

{{rank|started|respect|that's|744|Christian|food|trying|states}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈkɹɪstʃən/}}
* {{hyphenation|Chris|tian}}

===Etymology===
From [[w:Latin|Latin]] Chrīstus, from [[w:Ancient Greek|Ancient Greek]] Χριστός, noun use of χριστός, ''khristos'' meaning ''[[anointed]]''. The word Christian is first used in Antioch, according to Acts xi.25-26.

christianity is where you worship satin and you eat cookies in "church" when really the pastor is staring at the little boys in the back row. and he makes them pray and close their eyes so then he can get to the boys in the back row. YEAH HE IS THAT FAST. so he has godly speed.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Ancient Greek}} found in England since the twelfth century.
# {{given name|female|from=Ancient Greek}} of medieval usage, rare today.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|male given name}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Kristián}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|Christian}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Kristian}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Christian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Christian}}
* Hungarian: [[Krisztián]], [[Keresztély]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Kristján}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Cristiano}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Kristian}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Crìsdean|m}}
* Spanish: [[Cristián]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Kristian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* ''feminine forms:'' [[Christiana]], [[Christina]], [[Christine]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|not comparable}} Of, like or relating to [[Christianity]] or Christians.
# Kind, charitable.
#: ''That's very '''Christian''' of you.''
#: To non-Christians, this may be an offensive usage (similarly, see the offensive usage of [[Jew]])

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of, like or relating to Christianity}}
* Armenian: [[քրիստոնեական]] (k'ristoneakan)
* Bosnian: [[hrišćanski]] {{m}}, [[kršćanski]] {{m}}
* Croatian: [[kršćanski]] {{m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|křesťanský}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|christelijk}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chrétien|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|christlich}}
* Greek: [[χριστιανικός]] (khristianikos)
* Hebrew: [[נוצרי]] (notzry) {{m}}, [[נוצרית]] (notzryt) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cristiano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: [[krikščioniškas]] {{m}}, [[krikščioniška]] ''f, n''
* Polish: {{t-|pl|chrześcijański|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|христианский|sc=Cyrl}} (xristianskij)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Crìosdail}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[хришћански]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[hrišćanski]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[kresťanský]] {{m}}, [[kresťanská]] {{f}}, [[kresťanské]] {{n}}
* Swedish: [[kristen]], [[kristlig]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|kind}}

====Synonyms====
* (''kind''): [[xian]], [[charitable]], [[helpful]], [[kind]], [[neighborly]]/[[neighbourly]], [[sweet]] (''informal'')

====Antonyms====
* [[atheist]]
* [[agnostic]]
* [[heathen]]
* [[pagan]]
* [[savage]]

===Derived terms===
* [[Christian name]]

===Related terms===
* [[Christ]]
* [[Christianity]]
* [[Christianize]]
* [[small c Christian]]

===See also===
* [[Catholic]]
* [[fundamentalist]]
* [[Jew]]
* [[messiah]]
* [[Mormon]]
* [[Muslim]]
* [[New Testament]]
* [[Old Testament]]
* [[Protestant]]

===Anagrams===
* ''[[Christina]]''
* ''[[Irish]] [[cant]]''
* ''I chant, sir.''
* ''I chart sin.''
* ''Scar, I hint.''

[[Category:Christianity]]

----

==Danish==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[Kristian]]

===Proper noun===
{{infl|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=da}} traditionally popular in Denmark, as the name of ten ruling kings since the fifteenth century.

====Related terms====
* ''variants:'' [[Carsten]], [[Chresten]], [[Chris]], [[Christen]], [[Karsten]], [[Kresten]], [[Kristen]]
* ''feminine forms:'' [[Christine]], [[Kirstine]].

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|fr|proper noun}} {{IPA|/kʁis.tjɑ̃/}}
# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}, cognate to [[#English|Christian]].

====Related terms====
* female given names: [[Christiane]], [[Christine]], [[Christelle]]

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=de}}.

====Related terms====
* [[Carsten]], [[Karsten]]
* ''feminine forms:'' [[Christiane]], [[Christina]], [[Christine]].

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=no}}, an alternative spelling of [[Kristian]].

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|sv|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}}, an alternative spelling of [[Kristian]].

[[ang:Christian]]
[[de:Christian]]
[[el:Christian]]
[[fr:Christian]]
[[ko:Christian]]
[[io:Christian]]
[[id:Christian]]
[[is:Christian]]
[[it:Christian]]
[[ku:Christian]]
[[li:Christian]]
[[hu:Christian]]
[[no:Christian]]
[[pl:Christian]]
[[ru:Christian]]
[[simple:Christian]]
[[sr:Christian]]
[[fi:Christian]]
[[sv:Christian]]
[[zh:Christian]]