==English==

===Proper noun===
{{head|en|proper noun plural form}}

# {{plural of|en|Christmas}}
#* {{quote-journal |en |journal=[[w:The Universal Magazine of Knowledge and Pleasure|The Universal Magazine of Knowledge and Pleasure]] |volume=CIII |year=1798 |location=London |publisher=W. Bent |page=42 |column=2 |text=The lord chancellor holds his fittings in this hall, and in former days, like the Temple, it had its revels and great '''Chriſtmaſſes'''. {{...}} The account of the great feaſt in the hall of the Inner Temple, by the ſerjeants, in 1555, is extremely worth conſulting: and alſo of the hoſpitable '''Chriſtmaſſes''' of old times.}}
#* {{quote-journal |en |journal=The New Sporting Magazine |volume=18 |year=1840 |section=Merry Christmas and Happy New Year |page=53 |text=“Lawk!” says our old granddam, who has taken the liberty of looking over our manuscript while we were gone to mix a glass of water and something. “Lawk!” says she, “how can you write such stuff? Christmas, indeed! you’ve no Christmas now. Do you call this Christmas? It’s more like a vapour bath. Such weather! Lawk, how times ''are'' changed! the '''Christmasses''' ''I'' remember! the good, old-fashioned '''Christmasses''', when there was snow on the ground six feet deep, and poor people were starved to death by dozens, and you couldn’t go out without having your fingers frost-bitten, and coals were at six shillings a hundred, and canals froze up so that you couldn’t get your goods, and the roads all impassable, and daren’t ask a few friends to merrymake for fear of losing three or four of ’em going home in snow-drifts, and—oh, those ''were'' '''Christmasses'''! we shall never see such times again!”&nbsp;/ “Hope not, granny: but if I don’t put down every word you’ve said, and send it to the Editor of the New Sporting Magazine, my name’s not&nbsp;/ {{smc|Sylvanus Swanquill.}}}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=Temper: A Novel |first=Florence |last=Marryatt |authorlink=Florence Marryat |year=1859 |location=New York |publisher=[[w:Dick & Fitzgerald|Dick & Fitzgerald]] |page=205 |text=Reader have your '''Christmasses''' hitherto been marked with happiness? Thank God for it. {{...}} Then mamma died—and later in your college days, dear Herbert, when you were both as tall as men, but as fond of play as ever—and we used to spend such happy '''Christmasses''', till our dear father died,&nbsp;/“{{...}} Herbert darling, Lawrence has left the last impression of happiness on my memory—he, who has since broken up our domestic peace, and for a long time spoilt our '''Christmasses'''—Heaven bless him!{{nb...}}”}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=The Remarkable Life of Victoria Drummond, Marine Engineer |first=Cherry |last=Drummond |authorlink=Cherry Drummond, 16th Baroness Strange |year=1994 |page=354 |text=Surely she was sitting there dreaming of '''Christmasses''' long past: Christmas in the South China Sea, the Christmas lights of Hong Kong, hot '''Christmasses''' so long ago in the ''Anchises'' under the Southern Cross stars, or even longer ago of '''Christmasses''' at Megginch, singing carols round the lighted Christmas tree in the hall, while Queen Victoria’s goddaughter in her starched white dress and bronze shoes had worn the sparkling pendant given her by the great Queen.}}