{{also|Appendix:Variations of "ci"}}
==Translingual==

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|roman numeral}} [[CI]], [[LLI]], [[llli]]

===Number===
'''ci'''

# A Roman numeral representing [[one hundred and one]] ([[101]]).

====See also====
* Previous: [[c]] ([[one hundred]], [[100]])
* Next: [[cii]] ([[one hundred and two]], [[102]])

----

==Anglo-Norman==

===Adverb===
{{head|xno|adverb}}

# [[here]] (current location)
#* '''circa 1250''', [[wikipedia:Marie de France|Marie de France]], ''[[w:Lais of Marie de France|Guigemar]]''
#*: Va t'en de '''ci''' ! Lai me aveir pes.
#*:: Go, leave this place! Let me have peace.

----

==Dalmatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|dlm}} {{term|quem|lang=la}}. Compare Romanian {{term|cine|lang=ro}}, Spanish {{term|quien|lang=es}}, Romansch {{term|che|lang=rm}}, Sardinian {{term|chíne|lang=sro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|ʧi|lang=dlm}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|dlm|pronoun}}

# [[who]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Etymology===
From Italian or French {{term|tu|lang=it}}, Russian {{term|ты|lang=ru|tr=ty}}, etc., plus the ''i'' of personal pronouns.

===Pronoun===
{{head|eo|pronoun|accusative|cin|possessive|cia}}

# {{archaic|lang=eo}} [[thou]]

====Usage notes====
This word has never been in common usage; it is mainly used only for translation of archaic texts into Esperanto. 

{{Universala Vortaro}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Contraction of {{term|ici|lang=fr}} or from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|ecce|lang=la}} {{term|hic|hīc|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-ci.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/si/|lang=fr}}, {{SAMPA|/si/}}
* {{homophones|si|lang=fr}}

===Adverb===
{{head|fr|adverb}}

Contracts ''[[ici]]'' or ''[[ceci]]''

# [[here]]
# [[this]]
#: ''cet homme-'''ci'''''
#:: ''this man''
#: ''Ces choses-'''ci'''''
#:: ''these things''
#: ''Je préfère ce gateau-'''ci''' à celui-là.''
#:: ''I prefer this cake to that one.''

====See also====
* {{l|fr|là}}

[[Category:French contractions]]

----

==Hmong==

===Verb===
'''ci'''

# to [[cook]], to [[roast]].

[[Category:Hmong verbs]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tsi/|lang=ia}}

===Adverb===
{{head|ia|adverb}}

# [[here]] {{gloss|at this place}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
<small>For both pronoun and adverb.</small><br>
From {{etyl|la|it}} {{term|ecce||look|lang=la}} + {{term|hic||here|lang=la}}, and from {{etyl|la|it}} {{term|ecce||look|lang=la}} + {{term|ibi||there|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tʃi/|lang=it}}, {{SAMPA|/tSi/}}
* {{homophones|C|lang=it}} {{qualifier|name of letter}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|it|pronoun}}

# [[us]].
# {{reflexive|lang=it}} [[ourselves]]
# impersonal reflexive pronoun
#: '''''Ci''' vuole poco a farmi felice.''
#:: It doesn't take much to make me happy.
# on it, about it, of it

====See also====
* [[noi]]
* [[si]]

===Adverb===
{{it-adv}}

# [[here]], [[there]]

====See also====
* [[ivi]]
* [[là]]
* [[qua]]
* [[qui]]

----

==Kanuri==

===Noun===
{{head|kr|noun}}

# [[mouth]]
[[Category:kr:Anatomy]]

----

==Lojban==

===Cmavo===
{{jbo-cmavo|cib}}

# [[three]]

[[Category:Lojban cardinal numbers]]
[[Category:Lojban cmavo of selma'o PA]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
'''ci'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[cī]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[cí]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[cǐ]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[cì]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Old French==

===Adverb===
{{head|fro|adverb}}

# [[here]] (in this place)

====Descendants====
* French: {{l|fr|ici}}

----

==Old Irish==

===Pronoun===
{{head|sga|pronoun}}

# {{alternative spelling of|cía|lang=sga}}

----
==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[t͡ɕi]|lang=pl}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|pl|pronoun form}}

# Dative singular mute form of '''[[ty#Polish|ty]]'''
#: ''Daję '''ci''' łzy, które spadły z moich oczu.
#:: I'm giving you the tears that fell from my eyes.

====Related terms====
* [[tobie]] (stressed form)

===Pronoun===
{{head|pl|pronoun form}}

# Plural personal masculine form of '''[[ten#Polish|ten]]'''
#: '''ci''' mężczyźni
#:: these men
----

==Sicilian==

===Alternative forms===
* [[cci]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈtʃi]|lang=scn}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}} {{IPA|[tʃɪ]|lang=scn}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|scn}} {{term|hic|hīc|lang=la}} via {{etyl|VL.|scn}} *hīcce. Compare {{etyl|it|-}} {{term|ci||lang=it}}.

====Adverb====
{{head|scn|adverb}}

# [[here]], [[there]]

===Etymology 2===

====Pronoun====
{{head|scn|pronoun}}

# [[dative]] form of {{term|iddu||lang=scn|he}}; to him
# [[dative]] form of {{term|idda||lang=scn|she}}; to her
# [[dative]] form of {{term|iddi||lang=scn|they}}; to them

=====Inflection=====
{| class="infltable" style="text-align:center"
! style="border-bottom:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:black" | 3<sup>rd</sup> person
! style="border-bottom:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:black" | m
! style="border-bottom:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:black" | f
! style="border-bottom:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:black" | pl
|-
! nominative
| {{l|scn|iddu}}
| {{l|scn|idda}}
| {{l|scn|iddi}}
|-
! prepositional
| {{l|scn|iddu}}
| {{l|scn|idda}}
| {{l|scn|iddi}}
|-
! accusative
| {{l|scn|lu}}
| {{l|scn|la}}
| {{l|scn|li}}
|-
! dative
| [[ci]]
| [[ci]]
| [[ci]]
|-
! reflexive
| {{l|scn|si}}
| {{l|scn|si}}
| {{l|scn|si}}
|}{{attention|scn|should use a template, not a full table}}

=====Usage notes=====
* Unlike in Italian, the Sicilian pronoun '''ci''' is not used for the first-person plural ('us'). The Sicilian equivalent is {{l|scn|ni}}.

----
==Tarantino==

===Pronoun===
{{head|roa-tar|pronoun|relative}}

# [[who]]

----
==Venetian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|vec}} ''[[quis]]'' (compare Italian {{term|chi|lang=it}}).

===Pronoun===
{{head|vec|pronoun}} (''interrogative'')

# [[who]]?

===Usage notes===
* Redoubled for reinforcement.
*: '''''Ci''' èlo '''ci'''?''
*:: ''Who on earth is he?''

----

==Welsh==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Celtic|kwū|lang=cy}}, Proto-Brittonic *kū (pl. *kunes) (compare Old Irish {{term|cú|lang=sga}}, Cornish {{term|ky|lang=kw}}, Breton {{term|ki|lang=br}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|ḱwṓ|lang=cy}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ki/|lang=cy}}

===Noun===
{{cy-noun|m|cŵn}}

# [[dog]]

====Mutation====
{{welsh mutation c-|i}}

====Derived terms====
* [[cïaidd]]
* [[corgi]]

[[af:ci]]
[[br:ci]]
[[cs:ci]]
[[cy:ci]]
[[da:ci]]
[[de:ci]]
[[et:ci]]
[[el:ci]]
[[es:ci]]
[[eu:ci]]
[[fr:ci]]
[[gl:ci]]
[[ko:ci]]
[[hr:ci]]
[[io:ci]]
[[id:ci]]
[[it:ci]]
[[ka:ci]]
[[ku:ci]]
[[lo:ci]]
[[lt:ci]]
[[li:ci]]
[[hu:ci]]
[[nl:ci]]
[[ja:ci]]
[[pl:ci]]
[[pt:ci]]
[[ro:ci]]
[[ru:ci]]
[[scn:ci]]
[[fi:ci]]
[[sv:ci]]
[[tr:ci]]
[[ug:ci]]
[[wa:ci]]
[[zh:ci]]