==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/klæp/}}
* {{rhymes|æp}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[strike|striking]] the palms of the hands, or any two surfaces, together.
#: ''He summoned the waiter with a '''clap'''''.
# The explosive sound of [[thunder]].
#* {{RQ:Ulysses}} Episode 12, ''The Cyclops''
#*:The deafening '''claps''' of thunder and the dazzling flashes of lightning which lit up the ghastly scene testified that the artillery of heaven had lent its supernatural pomp to the already gruesome spectacle.
# Any loud, sudden, explosive [[sound]] made by striking hard surfaces together, or resembling such a sound.
#: ''She shut her diary with a loud '''clap'''''.
#: ''Off in the distance, he heard the '''clap''' of thunder.''
# A [[slap]] with the hand, usually in a [[jovial]] manner.
#: ''His father's affection never went further than a handshake or a '''clap''' on the shoulder.''
# {{slang}} (''always as'' “'''the clap'''”) [[gonorrhea|Gonorrhea]].
#: ''He wasn't careful; he caught both syphilis and the '''clap'''.''
# (''[[w:Yorkshire_dialect|Yorkshire dialect]]'') A dropping of [[cow]] [[dung]] (presumably from the sound made as it hits the ground) <ref>Edward Peacock, ''A Glossary of Words Used in the Wapentakes of Manley and Corringham, Lincolnshire'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=c3oKAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA188&dq=clap&as_brr=1 p 188]</ref>
#* '''1890''', John Nicholson, ''Folk Lore of East Yorkshire'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=tw0naTcLHeMC&pg=PA139&dq=clap&as_brr=1&ei=pGvbRtu_E4SipgL0peiSCw page 139]
#*: “Oh ! get some coo '''clap''' (cow dung), mix it wi’ fish oil (whale oil), put it on, and let it stop on all neet.”

====Synonyms====
{{sense|sound of thunder}}
* [[thunderclap]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|The act of [[strike|striking]] the palms of the hands, or any two surfaces, together}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|пляскане|n}},  {{t|bg|ръкопляскане}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|klask|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Any loud, sudden, explosive [[sound]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|хлопване|n}},  {{t|bg|трясък|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|{{slang}} (''always as'' “'''the clap'''”) [[gonorrhea|Gonorrhea]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|трипер|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|druiper}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:applause]]

====Derived terms====
* [[thunderclap]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|clapp|ing}}
{{wikipedia|Clapping}}

# To [[strike]] the palms of the hands together, creating a sharp sound.
#: ''The children began to '''clap''' in time with the music.''
# To [[applaud]].
#: ''The audience loudly '''clapped''' the actress, who responded with a deep curtsey.''
#: ''It isn’t the singers they are '''clapping''', it's the composer.''
# To slap with the hand in a [[jovial]] manner.
#: ''He would often '''clap''' his teammates on the back for encouragement.''
# To bring two [[surface]]s together forcefully, creating a sharp sound.
#: ''He '''clapped''' the empty glass down on the table.''
#: ''She '''clapped''' the book shut.''
#: ''He '''clapped''' across the floor in his boots.
# To create or assemble (something) [[hastily]] (usually followed by ''up'' or ''together'').
#: ''We should '''clap''' together a shelter before nightfall.''
#: ''The rival factions '''clapped''' up a truce.
# To set or put, usually in haste.
#: ''The sheriff '''clapped''' him in jail.''
#: ''She was the prettiest thing I'd ever '''clapped''' eyes on, she was.''

====Derived terms====
* [[clapper]]
* [[claptrap]]
* [[clapperboard]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To strike the palms of the hands together}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|пляскам}},  {{t|bg|ръкопляскам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|klappen}}
* German: {{t+|de|klatschen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|手を叩く|tr=te wo tataku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|klaskać}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|bater palmas}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хлопать|tr=xlópat'}},  {{t|ru|хлопнуть|tr=xlópnut'}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To applaud by clapping the hands}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|صفق|tr=Saffaqa}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аплодирам}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|拍手|tr=pāishǒu|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|鼓掌|tr=gǔzhǎng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|applaudisseren}}, {{t+|nl|klappen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|applaudir}}
* German: {{t+|de|klatschen}},  {{t+|de|applaudieren}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χειροκροτώ}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מחא כפיים|tr=makhá kapayim}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tapsol}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|applaudire}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|拍手する|tr=hakushu-suru}}
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|چه‌پڵه‌ لێدان|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аплодировать|tr=aplodírovat'}},  {{t+|ru|хлопать|tr=xlópat'}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aplaudir}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|şak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To bring two [[surface]]s together forcefully, creating a sharp sound}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|хлопвам}},  {{t|bg|тряскам}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To create or assemble (something) [[hastily]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|скалъпвам}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To set or put, usually in haste}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[applaud]]
* [[applause]]

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aclp}}
* [[calp#English|calp]]

----

{{attention|ca}}
==Catalan==

===Noun===
'''clap'''

# [[stain]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]
----
==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[clapperboard]]

[[et:clap]]
[[el:clap]]
[[fa:clap]]
[[fr:clap]]
[[ko:clap]]
[[io:clap]]
[[it:clap]]
[[kn:clap]]
[[lt:clap]]
[[hu:clap]]
[[ml:clap]]
[[my:clap]]
[[nl:clap]]
[[oc:clap]]
[[pl:clap]]
[[ru:clap]]
[[simple:clap]]
[[fi:clap]]
[[ta:clap]]
[[te:clap]]
[[vi:clap]]
[[wa:clap]]
[[zh:clap]]