{{rfv}}
{{wikipedia|Unemployment types}}
==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|sg=[[classical]] [[unemployment]]|-}}

# {{economics}} According to "classical economic theory" originally developed by Adams, Ricardo, Malthus and others in late 18th century [[unemployment]] is explained simply by the real wages being higher than the [[market-equilibrium]] wage. In modern economics unemployment is seen as a more complicated phenomenon, and the term '''classical unemployment''' is used to refer to the [[component]] of overall unemployment caused by too high wage expectations. This kind of situation is suggested to arise e.g. as a result of a too generous [[minimum wage]] law or [[labor union]] influence. 
#*''There can be "[[Keynesian]]" and '''"classical" unemployment'''. Indeed there can be both at the same time: the real wage might be too high to allow full employment with existing capital stock, while at the same time aggregate demand is inadequate to take off the market what firms would wish to produce. Changes in the real wage could have demand-side and supply-side effects.'' [http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economics/laureates/1987/solow-lecture.html] Nobel prize winner Robert M. Solow in his prize lecture on Dec 8th, 1987.
#*''In the standard fix-price model of price-taking competitive firms, Keynesian and '''classical unemployment''' are separate states according to whether notional product supply exceeds or falls short of market demand at the prevailing wage and price configuration, so that labor demand is either output constrained and determined by the inverted production function (Keynesian unemployment), or firms are on their notional product supply and labor demand functions but the real wage exceeds the Walrasian full-employment level ('''classical unemployment'''). Thus labor demand is independent of the real wage in the Keynesian state and depends only on the real wage in the classical state.'' The American Economic Review, vol. 78, No. 2, pp 188-193, article "Is European Unemployment Classical or Keynesian?" by Robert M. Coen and Bert G. Hickman.
#*'''''Classical unemployment''' is the result of real wages being above their market clearing level leading to an excess supply of labour.'' [http://www.tutor2u.net/economics/revision-notes/a2-macro-unemployment.html] Geoff Riley, Head of Economics, Eton College, Sept. 2006