==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈklɑːʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈklæʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
Of {{onomatopoeic|lang=en}} origin.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{label|en|onomatopoeia}} A [[loud]] sound.
#: ''I heard a '''clash''' from the kitchen, and rushed in to find the cat had knocked over some pots and pans.''
# {{label|en|military}} A [[skirmish]], a hostile encounter.
# {{label|en|sports}} a [[match]]; a game between two sides.
#* '''2011''', Tom Fordyce, ''Rugby World Cup 2011: England 12-19 France'' [http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_union/15210221.stm]
#*: But they ran out of time and inspiration as Les Bleus set up a deserved semi-final '''clash''' with Wales.
# An angry [[argument]]
# Opposition; contradiction; such as between differing or contending interests, views, purposes etc.
#: ''a '''clash''' of beliefs''
#: ''a personality '''clash'''''
# A [[combination]] of garments that do not look good together, especially because of conflicting colours.
#: ''She was wearing a horrible '''clash''' of red and orange.''
# {{label|en|hurling}} An instance of restarting the game after a "dead ball", where it is dropped between two opposing players, who can fight for possession.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|loud sound}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تصادم}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|трясък|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kalske}}, {{t|fi|kalskahdus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fracas}}, {{t+|fr|cliquetis}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გუგუნი|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|გრიალი|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|ჩხარუნი|sc=Geor}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κλαγγή|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csattanás}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|estrondo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лязг|m}}, {{t+|ru|громыха́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|гул|m}}, {{t+|ru|гро́хот|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|gliong|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|colision}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skräll}}, {{t+|sv|smäll}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|skirmish}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|střet|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yhteenotto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|échauffourée|f}}, {{t+|fr|escarmouche|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|შეტაკება|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|შეჯახება|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zusammenstoß|m}}, {{t+|de|Auseinandersetzung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scontro|m}}, {{t+|it|schermaglia|f}}, {{t+|it|baruffa|f}}, {{t+|it|zuffa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conflito|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|столкнове́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|сты́чка|f}}, {{t+|ru|разбо́рка|f}} {{qualifier|slang}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|opposition; contradiction}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|განხეთქილება|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|კონფლიქტი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Clash|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|es}}

# to make a loud clash
#: ''The plates '''clashed''' to the floor.''
# to come into violent [[conflict]]
#: ''Fans from opposing teams '''clashed''' on the streets after the game.''
# {{label|en|intransitive}} to [[argue]] angrily
#: ''My parents often '''clashed''' about minor things, such as the cleaning or shopping rota.''
# {{label|en|intransitive|of clothes}} to not look good together.
#: ''You can't wear that shirt, as it '''clashes''' with your trousers.''
#: ''She looked so trashy, her lipstick and jewellery all '''clashed'''.''
# {{label|en|intransitive|of events}} to [[coincide]], to happen at the same time, thereby rendering it impossible to attend all.
#: ''I can't come to your wedding as it '''clashes''' with a friend's funeral.''
# {{label|en|intransitive|in games or sports}} to [[face]] each other in an important game.
#* {{quote-journal
|date=June 27, 2008
|author=
|title=Jones confirms Calzaghe showdown
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/boxing/7476878.stm
|page=
|passage=The veteran American legend claims he and Welsh two-weight world champion Calzaghe will '''clash''' on 20 September, probably at The MGM Grand in Las Vegas.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|clash}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|тряскам}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kalskahtaa}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κλαγγάζω}}, {{t+|el|βροντώ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|برخورد|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|греме́ть}}, {{t+|ru|грохота́ть}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|conflict}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يتصادم}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сблъсквам се}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ottaa yhteen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|s'affronter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συγκρούομαι}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cozzare}}, {{t|it|scontrarsi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|papatu }}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ста́лкиваться}}, {{t+|ru|конфликтова́ть}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|clashy}}
* {{l|en|electroclash}}
* {{l|en|soundclash}}

[[ar:clash]]
[[cy:clash]]
[[de:clash]]
[[et:clash]]
[[el:clash]]
[[es:clash]]
[[eu:clash]]
[[fr:clash]]
[[ko:clash]]
[[hy:clash]]
[[io:clash]]
[[it:clash]]
[[kn:clash]]
[[ku:clash]]
[[hu:clash]]
[[mg:clash]]
[[ml:clash]]
[[my:clash]]
[[ja:clash]]
[[pl:clash]]
[[ru:clash]]
[[sm:clash]]
[[sa:clash]]
[[simple:clash]]
[[fi:clash]]
[[sv:clash]]
[[ta:clash]]
[[te:clash]]
[[th:clash]]
[[chr:clash]]
[[tr:clash]]
[[vi:clash]]
[[zh:clash]]