{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|klēn}}, {{IPA|/kliːn/}}, {{SAMPA|/kli:n/}}
* {{audio|en-us-clean.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːn|-iːn]]

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[clæne|clǣne]]'', from Germanic. Cognate with German ''[[klein]]'' ‘small’.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Not [[dirty]].
#: ''Are these dishes '''clean'''?''
# In a condition of having been cleaned.
#: ''Your room is finally '''clean'''!''
# In an [[unmarked]] condition.
#: ''Put a '''clean''' sheet of paper into the printer.''
# [[Pure]], especially [[morally]] or [[religiously]].
#: ''Our kids can watch this movie because it is '''clean'''.''
# [[Drug]]- and [[alcohol]]-free.
#: ''I've been '''clean''' this time for eight months.''
# [[Smooth]], [[exact]], and [[performed]] well.
#: ''I’ll need a sharper knife to make '''clean''' cuts.''
# {{colloquial}} [[Cool]] or [[neat]].
#: ''Damn, Shorty, those are some '''clean''' shoes ya got there!''
# {{context|Of a criminal record or driver’s [[license]]}} Without [[restriction]]s or [[penalties]].
#: ''Unlike you, I’ve never been caused any accidents — my record is still '''clean'''!''
# {{context|aerodynamics}} Allowing an un[[interrupted]] flow over [[surface]]s, without [[protrusion]]s such as racks or landing gear.
# {{context|health}} Being free of [[sexually transmitted disease]]s ([[STD]]s).
#: ''I want to make sure my fiancé is '''clean''' before we are married.''
# Not in possession of [[weapon]]s or [[contraband]] such as drugs.
#: ''I’m '''clean''' officer. You can go ahead and search me if you want.''

====Antonyms====
* [[dirty]]
* [[unclean]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Derived terms}}
* [[clean sheet]]
* [[clean sweep]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[cleanliness]]
* [[cleanly]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[come clean]]
* [[unclean]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not dirty}}
*Czech: [[čistý]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in a condition of having been cleaned}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]], [[siisti]] (tidy)
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in an unmarked condition}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]], [[tyhjä]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pure, especially morally or religiously}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]], [[viaton]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|smooth, exact, and performed well}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}, [[ровный]] (róvnyj)
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: cool or neat}}
*Finnish: [[siisti]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|without restrictions or penalties}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|allowing an uninterrupted flow over surfaces}}
*Finnish: [[sileä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not having sexually transmitted diseases}}
*Finnish: [[puhdas]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not in possession of weapons or contraband such as drugs}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистый|чи́стый]] (čistyj) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[pastër]]
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[naet]], [[prop]], [[kempenn]]
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[net]], [[pur]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[干净]] ([[gānjìng]])
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[čist]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[schoon]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[pura]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[propre]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[sauber]], [[rein]]
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[נקי]] (naqy) {{m}}, [[נקייה]] (neqi'a) {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[tiszta]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[neta]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bersih]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[glan]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[pulito]] {{m}}, [[limpido]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[きれい]] (kirei)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[맑다]] (makda), [[깨끗하다]] (kkaekkeut-hada)
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: {{KUchar|[[پاک]]}}, {{KUchar|[[خاوێن]]}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[czysty]] {{m}}, [[czysta]] {{f}}, [[czyste]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[curat]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[limpio]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[ren]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[శుభ్రం]] (Subhram)
*{{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[ריין]] (rein)
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[glân]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{weightlifting}} The first part of the event [[clean and jerk]] in which the weight is brought from the ground to the shoulders.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|first part of "clean and jerk" weightlifting}}
*Finnish: [[veto]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} [[remove|Remove]] [[dirt]] from a place or object.
#: ''Can you '''clean''' the windows today?''
# {{transitive}} [[tidy|Tidy]] up, make a place [[neat]].
#: '''''Clean''' your room right now!''
# {{context|transitive|climbing}} Remove [[equipment]] from a climbing route after it was previously lead climbed.
# {{intransitive}} Make things clean in general.
#: ''She just likes to '''clean'''. That’s why I married her.''
# {{context|intransitive|curling}} [[brush|Brush]] the [[ice]] lightly in front of a moving [[rock]] to remove any [[debris]] and ensure a correct [[line]]; less vigorous than a [[sweep]].

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Derived terms}}
* [[clean one's clock|clean one’s clock]]
* [[clean out]]
* [[clean up]]
* [[cleaner]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(transitive) to remove dirt from a place or object}}
*Czech: [[čistit]], [[vyčistit]]
*Finnish: [[puhdistaa]], [[siivota]], [[siistiä]], [[putsata]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[чистить]] (čístit') {{impf}}
*Slovene: [[čistiti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(transitive) to tidy up}}
*Finnish: [[siivota]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[čistiti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(transitive) to remove equipment from climbing route}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(intransitive) to make things clean}}
*Finnish: [[puhdistaa]], [[siivota]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(intransitive) to brush lightly in front of a curling rock}}
*Finnish: [[harjata]] ([[kevyt|kevyesti]])
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[naetaat]], [[kempenn]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[schoonmaken]], [[kuisen]], [[reinigen]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[nettoyer]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[reinigen]], [[putzen]]
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[:he:לנקות|לנקות]] /lenaqot/
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bersih|membersihkan]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[pulire]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[きれい]]にする (kirei ni suru)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[씻다]] (ssisda, ssitda)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[czyścić]]
*{{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[glan]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[tvätta]], [[städa]]
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[glanhau]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|er}}

# [[fully|Fully]] and [[completely]].
#: ''He was stabbed '''clean''' through.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fully and completely}}
*Finnish: [[täysin]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Climbing]]

[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:clean]]
[[de:clean]]
[[es:clean]]
[[fr:clean]]
[[ko:clean]]
[[hy:clean]]
[[io:clean]]
[[id:clean]]
[[it:clean]]
[[kk:clean]]
[[ky:clean]]
[[ku:clean]]
[[hu:clean]]
[[ja:clean]]
[[pl:clean]]
[[ru:clean]]
[[simple:clean]]
[[fi:clean]]
[[sv:clean]]
[[ta:clean]]
[[te:clean]]
[[vi:clean]]
[[tr:clean]]
[[uk:clean]]
[[zh:clean]]