{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|change|happy|hours|510|clear|pretty|except|sound}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{italbrac|[[RP]]}}: {{IPA|/klɪə/ or /klɪr/}}
* {{italbrac|US}}: {{IPA|/klɪɚ/ or /kliːr/}}
* {{audio|en-us-clear.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪə(r)|-ɪə(r)]]

===Etymology===
From {{OF.}} [[cler]], from {{L.}} [[clarus]].

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Without [[clouds]].
#:* '''clear''' weather, a '''clear''' day
# [[Bright]], not [[dark]] or [[obscure]]d.
#:* The windshield was '''clear''' and clean.
#:* Congress passed the President’s '''Clear''' Skies legislation.
# Free of [[obstacle]]s.
#:* The driver had mistakenly thought the intersection was '''clear'''.
#:* The coast is '''clear'''.
# Free of [[guilt]], or [[suspicion]].
#:* a '''clear''' conscience
# Free of [[ambiguity]] or [[doubt]].
#:* He gave '''clear''' instructions not to bother him at work.
#:* Do I make myself '''clear'''? Crystal '''clear'''.
# Completely [[transparent]] in [[colour]]
#:* as '''clear''' as crystal

====Translations====
{{trans-top|without clouds}}
*Danish: [[klar]]
*Finnish: [[kirkas]], [[pilvetön]], [[selkeä]]
*Hebrew: [[בהיר]] (bahyr)
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[맑다]] (margda, makda)
*Slovene: [[jasen]] {{m}}, [[jasna]] {{f}}, [[jasno]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bright, not obscured}}
*Danish: [[klar]]
*Finnish: [[kirkas]], [[puhdas]]
*Hebrew: [[נקי]] (naqy) {{m}}, [[נקייה]] (neqi'a) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[맑다]] (margda, makda)
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|free of obstacles}}
*Danish: [[klar]], [[fri]]
*Finnish: [[vapaa]], [[esteetön]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[פנוי]] (panui) {{m}}, [[פנויה]] (pnuia) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|free of guilt or suspicion}}
*Danish: [[god]]
*Finnish: [[syytön]], [[viaton]], [[puhdas]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[נקי]] (naqy) {{m}}, [[נקייה]] (neqi'a) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[čist]] {{m}}, [[čista]] {{f}}, [[čisto]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|free of ambiguity or doubt}}
*Danish: [[klar]], [[tydelig]]
*Finnish: [[selvä]], [[selkeä]], [[yksikäsitteinen]]
*Hebrew: [[ברור]] (barur) {{m}}, [[ברורה]] (brura) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ڕه‌وان]]}}
*Slovene: [[jasen]] {{m}}, [[jasna]] {{f}}, [[jasno]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|completely transparent in colour}}
*Czech: [[čirý]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[klar]], [[gennemsigtig]]
*Finnish: [[kirkas]], [[läpinäkyvä]]
*Hebrew: [[צלול]] (tzalul) {{m}}, [[צלולה]] (tzlula) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[맑다]] (margda, makda)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[duidelijk]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[klar]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[klara]], [[evidenta]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[jelas]], [[jernih]], [[bening]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[glan]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[はっきり]] (hakkiri), [[くっきり]] (kukkiri), [[鮮明]] ([[せんめい]], senmei), [[透明]] ([[とうめい]], tōmei)
*{{ttbc|Malay}}: [[jelas]], [[jernih]]
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}: 1, 6. [[bistar]] || 2. [[čist]] || 5. [[jasan]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[claro]] {{m}}, [[clara]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[klar]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: açık,net,aşikar
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# All the way; [[entirely]].
#:* I threw it '''clear''' across the river to the other side.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|all the way}}
*Chinese: [[完全地]], [[十足地]]
*Finnish: [[kirkas|kirkkaasti]], [[selvä|selvästi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To remove [[obstruction]]s or [[impediment]]s.
#:* '''Clear''' the way.
# {{transitive}} To eliminate ambiguity or doubt from a matter; to [[clarify]]; especially, to [[clear up]].
# {{transitive}} To remove from [[suspicion]]; especially of having committed a crime
#:* The court '''cleared''' the man of murder.
# {{transitive}} To pass without interference; to [[miss]].
#:* The door just barely '''clears''' the table as it closes.
# {{intransitive}} To become clear.
#:* After a heavy rain, the sky '''cleared''' nicely for the evening.
# {{intransitive}} Of a [[check]] or financial [[transaction]], to go through as [[payment]]; to be [[process]]ed so that the money is transferred.
#:* The check might not '''clear''' for a couple of days.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to remove obstructions or impediments}}
*Danish: [[bane]]
*Finnish: [[raivata]], [[selvittää]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[לפנות]] (le'fanot)
*Slovene: [[očistiti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to eliminate ambiguity or doubt; to clarify}}
*Danish: [[opklare]]
*Finnish: [[selventää]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[להבהיר]] (le'havhyr)
*Slovene: [[razjasniti]], [[pojasniti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to remove from suspicion}}
*Danish: [[rense]]
*Finnish: [[todeta]] [[syytön|syyttömäksi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[לנקות]] (le'naqot)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to pass without interference to miss}}
*Danish: [[gå fri af]]
*Finnish: [[väistää]], [[mennä]] [[ohi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become clear}}
*Danish: [[klare op]]
*Finnish: [[kirkastua]], [[selvitä]],[[selventyä]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[להתבהר]] (le'hitbaher)
*Slovene: [[razjasniti]] se, [[zjasniti]] se
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to go through as payment}}
*Danish: [[gennemføre]]
*Finnish: [[selvittää]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[débarraser]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bersih|membersihkan]], [[hapus|menghapus]], [[jadi|menjadi]] [[jernih]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[取り除く]] ([[とりのぞく]], tori-nozoku), [[透明]]になる ([[とうめい]]になる, tōmei ni naru)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[despejar]], [[franquear]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: (bir şeyin)önündeki engelleri kaldırmak, açıklığa kavuşturmak, üzerindeki şüpheyi kaldırmak, ıskalamak, yanından geçmek, netleştirmek, (takas) sonuçlanmak
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[as clear as a bell]]
*[[as clear as day]]
*[[as clear as mud]]
*[[clarity]]
*[[clearance]]
*[[clearing]]
*[[clearly]]
*[[clearness]]
*[[clear off]]
*[[clear out]]
*[[clear up]]
*[[crystal clear]]
*[[in the clear]]
*[[keep a clear head]]
*[[keep clear]]

[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:clear]]
[[fa:clear]]
[[fr:clear]]
[[ko:clear]]
[[hy:clear]]
[[io:clear]]
[[id:clear]]
[[it:clear]]
[[kk:clear]]
[[ku:clear]]
[[hu:clear]]
[[ja:clear]]
[[pl:clear]]
[[pt:clear]]
[[simple:clear]]
[[fi:clear]]
[[ta:clear]]
[[te:clear]]
[[vi:clear]]
[[tr:clear]]
[[uk:clear]]
[[zh:clear]]