==English==

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{present participle of|en|clinch|nocat=1}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# That [[settle]]s something (such as an argument) definitely and conclusively
#* '''1872''', {{w|Thomas Hardy}}, ''{{w|Under the Greenwood Tree}}'', Part 2, Chapter 8,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/2662/2662-h/2662-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “Yes,” said Dick, with such a '''clinching''' period at the end that it seemed he was never going to add another word.
#* '''1921''', {{w|Edwin Arlington Robinson}}, “Imogen” in ''Collected Poems'', lines 113-119,<sup>[http://www.bartleby.com/233/304.html]</sup>
#*: There were no dreams,
#*: No phantoms in her future any more:
#*: One '''clinching''' revelation of what was
#*: One by-flash of irrevocable chance,
#*: Had acridly but honestly foretold
#*: The mystical fulfilment of a life
#*: That might have once … But that was all gone by
#* '''1960''', “Breaking the Fast,” ''[[w:Time (magazine)|Time]]'', 22 February, 1960,<sup>[https://web.archive.org/web/20130721165233/http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,939596,00.html]</sup>
#*: He shocked his hearers by urging them not to fast during Ramadan, which begins Feb. 29. As a '''clinching''' argument, Bourguiba recalled that even Mohammed, when inconveniently overtaken by Ramadan on his march to Mecca, counseled his soldiers: “Break the fast, and you will be stronger to confront the enemy.”

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A clinch; a passionate embrace.
#* '''1937''', ''Motion Picture Herald'' (volume 127, issues 1-6, page 42)
#*: Though there are no kissings and '''clinchings''', {{...}}
# A making certain or finalizing.
#* '''2015''', George Becnel, ''The Southland Conference: Small College Football, Big Dreams''
#*: Only six weeks into the season, the top-ranked Bulldogs were undefeated at 60, but more important to Louisiana Tech was one of the earliest '''clinchings''' of a conference title in the annals of college football.
# {{lb|en|computing|historical}} The distortion of computer tape by wrinkling.
#* '''1985''', Alvin C. Larson, ''Computer Operator (AFSC 51150)'' (page 87)
#*: This “'''clinching'''” can distort the tape by causing a series of creases or folds in the surface and may produce read errors.
#* '''1987''', ''Conservation Administration News'' (issues 28-35, page 29)
#*: Computer magnetic tape is designed primarily for its storage capacity, speed, and capacity to be repeatedly erased and written over. {{...}} Bad binder can cause holes in the oxide, loose particles, or '''clinching''' of tape.