==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈklɪŋ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋ|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|clingen}}, {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|clingan||to adhere}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*klinganą}}; akin to {{cog|da|klynge||to cluster, to crowd}}. Compare {{m|en|clump}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# [[fruit|Fruit]] (especially [[peach]]) whose [[flesh]] adheres strongly to the [[pit]].
#* '''1908''', [[w:O. Henry|O. Henry]], ''Hostages to Momus'':
#*: Antelope steaks and fried liver to begin on, and venison cutlets with chili con carne and pineapple fritters, and then some sardines and mixed pickles; and top it off with a can of yellow '''clings''' and a bottle of beer.
# [[adherence]]; [[attachment]]; [[devotion]]
#* Milton
#*: A more tenacious '''cling''' to worldly respects.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|clings|clinging|clung}}

# {{senseid|en|hold tightly}}To [[hold]] very [[tight]]ly, as to not fall off.
#: ''Seaweed '''clung''' to the anchor.''
#* Mrs. Hemans
#*: And what hath life for thee / That thou shouldst '''cling''' to it thus?
# To adhere to an object, without being affixed, in such a way as to follow its contours. Used especially of fabrics and films.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to adhere to, especially by twining round or embracing.
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: I '''clung''' legs as close to his side as I could.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to dry up or wither.
#* Shakespeare
#*: If thou speak'st false, / Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive, / Till famine '''cling''' thee.
# {{lb|en|figurative|with preposition to}} to [[be fond of]], to [[feel]] strongly about

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|clingy}}
* {{l|en|cling film}} / [[clingfilm]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hold tightly}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَمَسَّكَ}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կառչել}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|прилепвам}}, {{t|bg|придържам се о}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|粘住|tr=niánzhù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|依附|tr=yīfù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|klampen}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|liibuma}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|takertua}}, {{t+|fi|tarrautua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accrocher}}, s'accrocher, {{t+|fr|coller}}, se coller
* Galician: {{t+|gl|soster}}, [[agarrar]] or [[suxeitar]]
* German: {{t+|de|haften}}, {{t+|de|klammern}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|sangkut|alt=menyangkut}}, {{t+|id|sangkut|alt=menyangkutkan}}, {{t+|id|gantung|alt=bergantung}}, {{t+|id|gantung|alt=menggantung}}, {{t+|id|gantung|alt=menggantungkan}}
* Italian: [[aggrapparsi]] <ref>''Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese (in collaborazione con Oxford University Press)''. Edited by Maria Cristina Bareggi. Torino: Paravia, 2003. [[W:Wikipedia:book sources|ISBN 8839551107]]. [http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ Online version]</ref>, {{t+|it|abbarbicarsi}}, {{t|it|appiccicarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|掛ける|tr=かける, kakeru}}, {{t|ja|ぶら下がる|tr=ぶらさがる, burasagaru}} {{qualifier|intransitive}}, {{t|ja|ぶら下げる|tr=ぶらさげる, burasageru}} {{qualifier|transitive}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakaawhiawhi}}, {{t|mi|aropiri}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|klenge}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|przylgnąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|agarrar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|льнуть}}, {{t+|ru|прилипа́ть}}, {{t+|ru|цепля́ться}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sostener}}, {{t+|es|aferrar|alt=aferrarse}}, {{t+|es|sujetar}}, {{t+|es|agarrar|alt=agarrarse}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(figuratively) feel strongly about}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängen|alt=hängen an}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цепля́ться}} {{t+|ru|за}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|estar apegado|alt=estar apegado a}}, {{t+|es|aferrarse}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* Notes:
<references/>

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[ar:cling]]
[[cs:cling]]
[[cy:cling]]
[[et:cling]]
[[el:cling]]
[[eo:cling]]
[[eu:cling]]
[[fa:cling]]
[[fr:cling]]
[[ko:cling]]
[[hy:cling]]
[[hr:cling]]
[[io:cling]]
[[id:cling]]
[[jv:cling]]
[[kn:cling]]
[[ku:cling]]
[[lt:cling]]
[[hu:cling]]
[[mg:cling]]
[[ml:cling]]
[[my:cling]]
[[ja:cling]]
[[pl:cling]]
[[ro:cling]]
[[ru:cling]]
[[sm:cling]]
[[sa:cling]]
[[fi:cling]]
[[sv:cling]]
[[tl:cling]]
[[ta:cling]]
[[te:cling]]
[[chr:cling]]
[[tr:cling]]
[[uk:cling]]
[[vi:cling]]
[[zh:cling]]