==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|cloud|let|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[little]] [[cloud]].
#* '''1872''', Thomas Durfee, "El Paseo" in ''The Village Picnic and Other Poems'', Providence, RI: George H. Whitney, p. 112, [https://books.google.ca/books?id=pIEtAAAAMAAJ&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]
#*: I gaze at the beautiful dames that go / In their open volantes up and down; / Bewitchingly floating, by threes and by twos, / In their gauzy '''cloudlets''' of silk and of lace, / That seem to have robbed the sky of its hues, / And seem to have robbed the swan of his grace.
#* '''1911''', {{w|D. H. Lawrence}}, ''{{w|The White Peacock}}'', London:Heinemann, p. 365, [https://archive.org/details/whitepeacock00lawrrich]
#*: We drove briskly up the long, sleeping hill, and bowled down the hollow past the farms where the hens were walking with the red gold cocks in the orchard, and the ducks like white '''cloudlets''' under the aspen trees revelled in the pond.
#* {{quote-text|lang=en|year=1916|author={{w|James Joyce}}|title={{w|A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man}}|chapter=3|url=http://www.gutenberg.org/files/4217/4217-h/4217-h.htm|passage=The slide was shot back. A penitent emerged from the farther side of the box. The near slide was drawn. A penitent entered where the other penitent had come out. A soft whispering noise floated in vaporous '''cloudlets''' out of the box. It was the woman: soft whispering '''cloudlets''', soft whispering vapour, whispering and vanishing. }}
#* {{quote-text|lang=en|year=1938|author={{w|George Orwell}}|title={{w|Homage to Catalonia}}|chapter=6|url=http://www.gutenberg.net.au/ebooks02/0201111h.html|passage=The shell-bursts from the Fascist anti-aircraft guns dotted the sky like '''cloudlets''' in a bad water-colour, but I never saw them get within a thousand yards of an aeroplane.}}
#* '''1963''', {{w|Thomas Mann}}, ''{{w|Death in Venice}}'', in ''Death in Venice and Seven Other Stories'', translated by [[w:Helen Tracy Lowe-Porter|H. T. Lowe-Porter]], New York: Vintage, p. 49,
#*: At the world's edge began a strewing of roses, a shining and a blooming ineffably pure; baby '''cloudlets''' hung illumined, like attendant amoretti, in the blue and blushful haze {{...}}
#* '''1968''', {{w|Ivo Andrić}}, "Mustapha Magyar" in ''The Pasha's Concubine and Other Tales'', translated by Joseph Hitrec, New York: Alfred A. Knopf, p. 93,
#*: The water overflowed, creating a wide circle of soggy ground and marsh and shallow puddles above which, in the brilliance of the morning, there was a shimmer of butterflies and dense '''cloudlets''' of flies pulsing like veils.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a small cloud}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|nubeto}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pilvenhattara}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wölkchen|n}}
*: Alemannic German: {{t|gsw|Wülchli|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felhőcske}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|debesėlis}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|о́блачко|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Clouds]]