==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|col|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/kəʊl/}}, {{SAMPA|/k@Ul/}}
*: {{rhymes|əʊl}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/kɒʊl/}}, {{SAMPA|/kQUl/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-coal.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{homophones|cole|kohl}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|pl=coal|pl2=coals}}

# {{uncountable}} A black rock formed from [[prehistoric]] plant [[remains]], composed largely of [[carbon]] and burned as a fuel.
# {{countable}} A piece of coal used for burning. Note that in British English the first of the following examples would usually be used, whereas in American English the latter would.
#: ''Put some '''coals''' on the fire.''
#: ''Put some '''coal''' on the fire.''
# {{countable}} A type of coal, such as [[bituminous]], [[anthracite]], or [[lignite]], and grades and varieties thereof.
# {{countable}} A smouldering piece of material.
#: ''Just as the camp-fire died down to just '''coals''', with no flames to burn the marshmallows, someone dumped a whole load of wood on, so I gave up and went to bed.''

====Hyponyms====
* [[anthracite]], [[bitumin]]

====Derived terms====
* [[bituminous coal]], [[soft coal]]
* [[coal ball]], [[coal bed]], [[coal black]], [[coal gas]]
* [[coal hole]], [[coal oil]], [[coal tar]], [[coal tit]]
* [[coals to Newcastle]], [[channel coal]]
* [[hard coal]] (see: [[anthracite]])

====Related terms====
* [[colliery]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|uncountable: carbon rock}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|steenkool|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ածուխ|tr=açux|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}, {{qualifier|bituminous}} {{t-|hy|քարածուխ|tr=k'araçux|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|kajs̈ho'meki}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t|zh|煤|tr=méi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|uhlí|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|terkarbo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kivihiili}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kohle|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|γαιάνθρακας|tr=gaiánthrakas|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szén}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|خه‌ڵوزی به‌رد|tr=xelluzî berd|sc=ku-Arab}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|јаглен|m|tr=jáglen|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уголь|m|tr=úgol'|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|carbón|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|countable: carbon rock}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ածուխ|tr=açux|sc=Armn}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t|zh|煤|tr=méi|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hiili}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kohle|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szén}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|уголёк|m|tr=ugoljók|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|carbón|m}}
* [[Taos]]: [[ùypha’ána]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|smouldering material}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hiillos}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kohle}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szén}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|ќумур|m|tr=ḱúmur|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|brasa|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[فحم]]}}
* Bosnian: [[ugalj#Bosnian|ugalj]] {{m}}, [[ćumur#Bosnian|ćumur]] {{m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[glaou]]
* Bulgarian: [[въглен]] (vəglen) {{m}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[carbó]] {{m}}
* Croatian: [[ugalj#Croatian|ugalj]] {{m}}
* Dutch: [[kool]] {{m}}, [[steenkool]] {{m}}
* Esperanto: [[karbo]]
* Finnish: [[kivihiili]], [[hiili]]
* French: [[charbon]] {{m}}, [[houille]], [[braises]] {{f}} (hot coals)
* German: {{t+|de|Kohle}} {{f}}
* Hebrew: [[פחם]] (pekham) {{m}}
* Hindi: [[कोयला]] (koylā)
* Indonesian: [[batu]][[bara]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[carbon]]
* Italian: [[carbone]] {{m}}, [[carbonella]] {{f}}
* Japanese: [[石炭]] ([[せきたん]], sekitan)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|kumirr}} {{f}}
* Latin: [[carbo]] {{m}}
* Latvian: [[ogle]]
* Lithuanian: [[anglis]]
* Malay: [[arang batu]]
* Polish: [[węgiel]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[carvão]] {{m}}
* Romanian: [[cărbune]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[угаљ#Serbian|угаљ]] {{m}}, [[ћумур#Serbian|ћумур]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[ugalj#Serbian|ugalj]] {{m}}, [[ćumur#Serbian|ćumur]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[uhlie]] {{n}}
* Slovene: [[ogel]] {{m}}, [[premog]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[cisco]]
* Swedish: [[kol]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[బొగ్గు]] (boggu)
* Turkish: [[kömür]]
* Welsh: [[glo]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To take in coal; as, the [[steamer]] coaled at Southampton.
# To be converted to [[charcoal]].
#:* '''1957''': As a result, particles of wood and twigs insufficiently '''coaled''' are frequently found at the bottom of such pits. &mdash; H.R. Schubert, ''History of the British Iron and Steel Industry'', p. 18.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Mining]]
[[Category:Natural resources]]

[[ang:coal]]
[[ar:coal]]
[[zh-min-nan:coal]]
[[de:coal]]
[[fa:coal]]
[[fr:coal]]
[[ga:coal]]
[[ko:coal]]
[[hy:coal]]
[[io:coal]]
[[id:coal]]
[[it:coal]]
[[kk:coal]]
[[lo:coal]]
[[hu:coal]]
[[ml:coal]]
[[pl:coal]]
[[pt:coal]]
[[simple:coal]]
[[fi:coal]]
[[sv:coal]]
[[ta:coal]]
[[te:coal]]
[[tr:coal]]
[[vi:coal]]
[[zh:coal]]