==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|käk|kôk}}, {{IPA|/kɑk/|/kɔːk/}}, {{SAMPA|/kAk/|/kO:k/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-cock.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{homophones|caulk}} {{qualifier|some pronunciations}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/kɒk/}}, {{SAMPA|/kQk/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɒk}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm}} [[cok]], from {{etyl|ang}} onomatopoeia {{term|cocc|lang=ang}}, reinforced by Old (and modern, also sound-imitative) French [[coq]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[male]] [[bird]], especially a domestic fowl.
# Male [[chicken]].
# A [[valve]] or [[tap]] for controlling flow in plumbing.
# The [[hammer]] of a [[firearm]] trigger mechanism.
# {{slang|vulgar}} The [[penis]].
# {{curling}} The circle at the end of the [[rink]].
# The state of being [[cocked]]; an upward turn, tilt or angle.
# {{UK|pejorative|slang}} A [[stupid]] person.
# {{UK|informal}} An informal term of address.
#: ''All right, '''cock'''''

=====Synonyms=====
* (''male bird''): [[cockbird]]
* (''male chicken''): [[rooster]]
* (''penis''): see [[WikiSaurus:penis]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Derived terms}}
* [[cockfight]]
* [[cockfighting]]
* [[cockpit]]
* [[cocksure]]
* [[cocktease]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[cockteaser]]
* [[fighting cock]]
* [[gamecock]]
* [[weathercock]]
* [[woodcock]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|any male bird}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t-|eu|ar|xs=Basque}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kohout|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|kok}}, {{t+|da|han}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mannetje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kukko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mâle|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Männchen|n}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|karlfugl|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|coileach|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|maschio|m}}
* Latvian: [[gailis]] {{m}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|għasfur|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[naabese]]
* Spanish: [[ave]] [[macho]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tupp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|male chicken}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[haan]] {{m}}
* Albanian: [[kokosh]] {{m}}
* Armenian: [[աքլոր]] (ak'lor), [[աքաղաղ]] (ak'aġaġ)
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|oilar|xs=Basque}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[horaz]] (Northern dialect [[qoraz]])
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kohout|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|kok}}, {{t-|da|hane|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|haan|m}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[koklotsu]] {{m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kukko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coq|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hahn|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κόκορας|m|tr=kókoras|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[תרנגול]] (tarnegol)
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hani|m}}
* Indonesian: [[jago]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[gallo]]
* Irish: {{t-|ga|coileach|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gallo|m}}
* Latvian: [[gailis]] {{m}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|serduq|m|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hane|m}}
* [[Occitan]]: {{t+|oc|gal|m|xs=Occitan}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[naabese]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kogut|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|galo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|cocoş|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|петух|m|tr=petúx|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[jaddu]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[kohút]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|petelin|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|gallo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tupp}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|horoz}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[hoanne]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang for ''penis''}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[piel]]
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|kar|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[زب]]}} (zubb) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[կլիր]] (klir)
* Cantonese: [[屌]]/[[𨳒]] [⿵門小] ([[diu2]]), [[𨳊]] [⿵門九] ([[gau1]]), [[𨶙]] [⿵門能] ([[lan2]]), [[𨳍]] [⿵門七] ([[cat6]])
* [[Catalan]]: [[carall]]
* Danish: {{t+|da|pik}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lul|m}}, {{t+|nl|pik|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kaco|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kyrpä}}, {{t+|fi|kulli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bite|f}}, {{t+|fr|paf|m}}, {{t+|fr|pine|f}}, {{t+|fr|queue|f}}, {{t+|fr|vit|m}}, {{t+|fr|zob|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schwanz|m}}
* Greek: [[πούτσα]] (pútsa) {{f}} (obscene), [[ψωλή]] (psolí) {{f}} (slang, obscene), [[καυλί]] (kavlí) {{n}} (slang, obscene), [[πούτσος]] (pútsos) {{m}} (obscene), [[παπάρι]] (papári) {{n}} (slang), [[παπάρα]] (papára) {{f}} (slang)
* Hebrew: [[זין]] (zayn)
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|typpi|n}}, {{t-|is|drjóli|m}}, {{t-|is|göndull|m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[pene]]
* Irish: {{t-|ga|bod|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cazzo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|チンコ|sc=Jpan}}
* Latvian: [[daikts]] {{m}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|żobb|m|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: [[kuk]]/[[kukk]] {{m}}, [[pikk]] {{m}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[niinag]] (inanimate, ''my penis'')
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[کیر]]}} (kir)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|chuj|m}}, {{t+|pl|fiut|m}}, {{t+|pl|kutas|m}}, {{t+|pl|kutafon|m}}, {{t+|pl|pała|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pinto|m}}
* [[Pushto]]: {{fa-Arab|[[غين]]}} (gheen)
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pulă|f}}, {{t+|ro|miel|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хуй|m|tr=xuj|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[minchia]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|kokot|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kurec|m}}, {{t-|sl|kurac|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|polla|f}}, {{t+|es|verga|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kuk}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yarak}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[lul]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[gjel]] {{m}}, [[kaposh]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Cantonese}}: [[雞公]] (gai1 gung1)
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[ocellet]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[koko]]
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[kakas]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[cimbrel]] {{m}}, [[nabo]] {{m}}, [[pirula]] {{f}}, [[chupa-chups]] {{m}}, [[pilila]] {{f}}, [[minga]] {{f}}, [[manubrio]] {{m}}, [[cipote]] {{m}}, [[carajo]] {{m}}, [[pito]] {{m}}, [[picha]] {{f}}, [[tranca]] {{f}}, [[sable]] {{m}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To lift the [[cock]] of a firearm; to [[prepare]] (a [[gun]]) to be [[fire]]d.
# {{intransitive}} To be prepared to be triggered.
#: ''In the darkness, the gun '''cocked''' loudly.
# {{UK|transitive|slang}} To [[copulate]] with.
# {{transitive}} To turn or twist something upwards or to one side.
#: ''He '''cocked''' his hat jauntily.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to lift the cock of a firearm}}
* Dutch: de [[haan]]/trekker [[overhalen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|spenna}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to copulate (with)}}
* Dutch: [[neuken]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hausa}}: [[mazakuta]], [[gindi]] (1), [[bura]] (2), [[kutuma]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[cock and bull story]]

===Etymology 2===
Of Scandinavian origin 

{{etystub|Needs old norse etymon}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# a small [[pile]]
#: ''The farmhands stack the hay into '''cocks'''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[hay-cock]]

=====Translations=====
* Dutch: [[opper]] {{m}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To form into [[pile]]s.

=====Translations=====
* Dutch: [[opperen]]

[[Category:Poultry]]
[[Category:Vulgarities]]

[[ang:cock]]
[[de:cock]]
[[el:cock]]
[[fa:cock]]
[[fr:cock]]
[[ko:cock]]
[[io:cock]]
[[it:cock]]
[[ku:cock]]
[[hu:cock]]
[[pl:cock]]
[[pt:cock]]
[[ru:cock]]
[[fi:cock]]
[[ta:cock]]
[[te:cock]]
[[vi:cock]]
[[uk:cock]]
[[zh:cock]]