{{also|COD}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/kɒd/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/kɑd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-cod.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɒd}}
* (in [[w:General American|General American]]: {{rhymes|ɑːd}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|codd|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*kuddaz}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A small [[bag]] or [[pouch]].
#: {{rfquotek|Halliwell}}
# {{context|UK|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[husk]] or [[integument]]; a [[pod]].
#* '''1526''', William Tyndale, trans. ''Bible'', Luke XV:
#*: And he wolde fayne have filled his bely with the '''coddes''', that the swyne ate: and noo man gave hym.
#: {{rfquotek|Mortimer}}
# {{context|now|_|rare|lang=en}} The [[scrotum]] (also in plural).
#* '''1646''', Sir Thomas Browne, ''Pseudodoxia Epidemica'', III.4:
#*: that which we call ''castoreum'' {{...}} are not the same to be termed testicles or stones; for these '''cods''' or follicles are found in both sexes, though somewhat more protuberant in the male.
#: {{rfquotek|Dunglison}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[pillow]] or [[cushion]].
#: {{rfquotek|Halliwell}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[codpiece]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|husk or pod}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuori}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کیسه|tr=kise|sc=fa-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain; perhaps ultimately the same as Etymology 1, above.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-|cod|cods}}

# A [[marine]] [[fish]] of the [[family]] [[Gadidae]].
# A marine fish resembling a cod of the genus ''[[Gadus]]'', such as the [[rock cod]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''cod'' (fish)}}
* [[bay cod]]
* [[codfish]]
* [[codling]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[cod liver oil]]
* [[rock cod]]
* [[shore cod]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|marine fish of the family Gadidae}}
* Abenaki: {{t|abe|nokamagw}}
* Aleut: {{t|ale|ptxitax}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ձողաձուկ|tr=joġajuk}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|bacaláu|m}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|bakailao}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|треска|f}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|bacallà|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|鱈魚|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|鳕鱼|tr=xuěyú|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|treska|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|torsk|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kabeljauw|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|moruo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tursk}}
* Faroese: {{t+|fo|toskur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turska|m}}
* French: {{t+|fr|morue|f}}, {{t+|fr|cabillaud|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|bacallau|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kabeljau|m}}, {{t+|de|Dorsch|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μπακαλιάρος|m|tr=bakaliáros}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tőkehal}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þorskur|m}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|moruo}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|trosc|m}}, {{t+|ga|bod donn|m}}, {{t+|ga|bod rua|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|merluzzo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|鱈|tr=[[たら]], tara}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|mouothue|f}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|대구|tr=daegu}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|menca|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|menkė|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|torsk|m}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|merluça}}
* Old Norse: {{t|non|þorskr|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dorsz|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bacalhau|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|cod}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|треска|f|tr=treská}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|бака̀ла̄р|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|bakàlār|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|treska|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|tŕska|f}}, {{t+|sl|polenovka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bacalao|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|torsk|c}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|bikmaus}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|morina}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|тріска|f}}
* Volapük: {{qualifier|male or female}} {{t+|vo|gadut}}, {{qualifier|male}} {{t|vo|higadut}}, {{qualifier|female}} {{t|vo|jigadut}}, {{qualifier|male or female offspring, young}} {{t|vo|gadutül}}, {{qualifier|male offspring, young}} {{t|vo|higadutül}}, {{qualifier|female offspring, young}} {{t|vo|jigadutül}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Origin unknown.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A joke or an imitation.
#: ''I assume it all could just be a '''cod'''.''
# A stupid or foolish person.
#: ''He's making a right '''cod''' of himself.''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Having the character of [[imitation]]; [[jocular]]. (now usually attributive, forming mostly compound adjectives).
#: ''“Illegitimi non carborundum” is a well-known example of '''cod''' Latin.''
#: ''Dalton categorises Muse's latest composition as “'''cod'''-classical bombast”.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|false, mock}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|teko|alt=teko-}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cods|codding|codded}}

# {{context|slang|transitive|dialectal|lang=en}} To attempt to deceive or confuse.

===Derived terms===
* [[codswallop]] <!-- proposed derivation, unclear from which sense – see etymology there -->

===Anagrams===
* [[CDO#English|CDO]]
* [[doc#English|doc]], [[Doc#English|Doc]], [[DOC#English|DOC]]
* [[OCD#English|OCD]]
* [[ODC#English|ODC]]

[[Category:English invariant nouns]]
[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]
[[Category:en:Fish]]

----

==Middle English==

===Noun===
'''cod''', ''plural'' '''[[cods]]'''

# [[scrotum]]

====Derived terms====
* [[codpiece]]

[[Category:Middle English nouns]]

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
From Old Danish {{term|kodde|lang=gmq-oda}} or Old Norse {{term|koddi|lang=non}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɒd/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# [[pillow]]

[[ang:cod]]
[[ca:cod]]
[[cs:cod]]
[[da:cod]]
[[de:cod]]
[[et:cod]]
[[es:cod]]
[[eo:cod]]
[[eu:cod]]
[[fr:cod]]
[[gl:cod]]
[[ko:cod]]
[[io:cod]]
[[it:cod]]
[[jv:cod]]
[[lv:cod]]
[[hu:cod]]
[[mg:cod]]
[[ml:cod]]
[[my:cod]]
[[no:cod]]
[[pl:cod]]
[[ru:cod]]
[[fi:cod]]
[[sv:cod]]
[[ta:cod]]
[[te:cod]]
[[tr:cod]]
[[vi:cod]]
[[zh:cod]]