{{also|cod's wallop|cods wallop}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|cod's wallop|cods wallop}}

===Etymology===
{{unk|en}}, attested from 1959 episode of UK TV series ''{{w|Hancock's Half Hour}}''. The writers ({{w|Galton and Simpson}}) state that the phrase was in general use when the show was broadcast.<ref name="pf">{{R:Phrase Finder|entry=A load of codswallop|url=codswallop|accessdate=26 February 2017}}</ref><ref name="oed">{{cite-web|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20090305064036/http://oed.com/bbcwords/codswallop-new.html|url=http://oed.com/bbcwords/codswallop-new.html|archivedate=2009–03–09|year=2006|month=January|title=codswallop|work=OED Online}}</ref> A national TV appeal in the UK in 2006 failed to find earlier references,<ref name="pf"/> though a humorous newspaper column from 1947 does use the fictional name "Sir Aubrey Codswallop".<ref>{{cite-journal |work=Reveille |page=5 |date=1947-07-22 |title=The Man Himself |author="Dee" |location=London |quote=What sort of a man is Sir Aubrey Codswallop, the big noise behind the new Utility Mousetrap (Control of Cheese) Order?}}</ref>  Originally written (1963) {{m|en||codswallop}}, spelling {{m|en|cod's wallop}} is later. 

Various etymologies are proposed from some sense of {{m|en|cod}}, such as from {{af|en|cod|t1=joke, imitation|-s-|wallop|t3=beer (slang)}}, hence ''cod'' + ''wallop'' “imitation beer” (with [[interconsonantal]] ''-s-'' to ease pronunciation of ''-dw-''), or from {{af|en|cod|t1=scrotum, as in {{m|en|codpiece}}|-s-|wallop|t3=to hit}}, hence ''cod'' + ''wallop'' “testicle bag”  or "tbag" or "hit with testicle bag," or from {{m|en|cod||fish}} (some part of the fish, as from fishing industry).

A frequently given etymology, although widely rejected as a {{glossary|folk etymology}}, derives it from {{w|Hiram Codd}}, British soft drink maker of the 1870s, known for the eponymous {{w|Codd-neck bottle}}, with the suggestion that {{m|en||codswallop}} is a derisive term for soft drinks by beer drinkers, from ''Codd’s'' + {{m|en|wallop||beer (slang)}} “Codd’s beer (sarcastic)”. There is no evidence that early uses had this sense, the slang {{m|en|wallop||beer}} comes later than Codd’s lifetime,<ref name="pf"/> initial spellings (1963 in print) do not reflect such a derivation (*''Codd’s wallop'' and *''coddswallop'' with ''-dd-'' are not found), and there is an 80-year gap between proposed coinage and attestation.

This is also the name given to the wooden device placed over the neck of a codd bottle and given a push (wallop) to dislodge the marble in the neck of the bottle. The word has also been used to describe the process of opening a codd bottle.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˌkɒdzˈwɒl.əp/}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-codswallop.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɒləp}}
* {{hyphenation|en|cods|wal|lop}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|UK|Australia|slang}} Senseless talk or writing; [[nonsense]]; [[rubbish]].
#: {{syn|en|Thesaurus:nonsense}}
#* '''1959''' [[w:Galton and Simpson|Ray Galton and Alan Simpson]], ''[[w:Hancock's Half Hour|Hancock’s Half Hour]]'',
#*: ''Tony'': I was not.
#*: ''Sidney'': Don’t give me that old '''codswallop'''. You were counting your money.
#* '''1963''' October 17, ''{{w|Radio Times}}'', 52/2,
#*: Just branding a programme as ‘rubbish’, ‘tripe’, or—there are a lot of these—‘'''codswallop'''’, gives little indication of what moved the viewer to write.
#* '''1981''' October 1, John Turner, ''Review: Autumn Books: Prometheus bounded?'', ''[[w:New Scientist|New Scientist]]'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=EIZI3TDTGTsC&pg=PA41&dq=%22codswallop%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XBwtT6-WMYzqmAXgo82DDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22codswallop%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 41],
#*: An interviewer from a Warsaw radio station stopped a citizen in the street. Was the recent demonstration necessary? “History will tell.” But what did he think? “I am not a historian.” Likewise Lumsden′s and Wilson′s book. If it is not a load of '''codswallop''', it will turn out to be very important. If it is not a load of '''codswallop'''. ''Faites vos jeux!''
#* '''1993''', J. Neville Turner, ''The One-Day Game – Cricket or '''Codswallop'''?'', in 2001, David John Headon, ''The Best Ever Australian Sports Writing: A 200 Year Collection''.
#* {{quote-text|en|year=2010|author=Grahame Howard|title=The Wishing Book 3 – Extermination|page=66|url=http://books.google.com.au/books?id=3sAk0FUDueUC&pg=PA66&dq=%22codswallop%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2xgtT5_rGeeNmQXd0bDqDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22codswallop%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false|passage=“I′ve told you all I know,” Rosa Armaz told Boarski and Yermin, “I don′t know what my husband has been doing. He′d mentioned going to Mars with the children but I thought it was a load of '''codswallop'''.”}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interjection}}

# {{lb|en|UK|slang}} {{non-gloss definition|Used to express disbelief}}: [[nonsense]]!; [[rubbish]]!
#: {{syn|en|hogswallop}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|nonsense}}
* Danish: {{t|da|sludder|n}}, {{t|da|bavl|n}}, {{t|da|vrøvl|n}}
* Italian: {{t|it|fesserie|f-p}}, {{t+|it|sciocchezze|f-p}}, {{t|it|idiozie|f-p}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|tullprat|m}}, {{t|nb|vrøvl|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:World Wide Words|url=weirdwords/ww-cod1}}
* {{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}}

===References===
<references/>