==English==
{{was wotd|2011|September|1}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*ǵʰer-|id=enclose}}
From {{der|en|la|cohors}} (stem {{m|la||cohort-}}); borrowed into {{der|en|ang|-}} as {{m|ang|coorta}}, but reintroduced into {{inh|en|enm|-}} as {{m|enm|cōhort}} and {{m|enm|chōors}} via {{der|en|fro|cohorte}}. {{doublet|en|court}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkəʊ.hɔː(ɹ)t/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkoʊ̯.hɔɹt/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-cohort.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-cohort.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|əʊhɔː(ɹ)t|oʊhɔɹt|s=2}}
* {{hyphenation|en|co|hort}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[group]] of people [[support]]ing the same thing or person.
#* '''1887''' July, {{w|George Romanes|George John Romanes}}, ''[[s:Popular Science Monthly/Volume 31/July 1887/Mental Differences of Men and Women|Mental Differences of Men and Women]]'', in ''{{w|Popular Science Monthly}}'', Volume 31,
#*: Coyness and caprice have in consequence become a heritage of the sex, together with a '''cohort''' of allied weaknesses and petty deceits, that men have come to think venial, and even amiable, in women, but which they would not tolerate among themselves.
#* {{quote-text|en|year=1916|author={{w|James Joyce}}|title=[[s:A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man/Chapter 3|A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man]]|chapter=III|passage=A sin, an instant of rebellious pride of the intellect, made Lucifer and a third part of the '''cohort''' of angels fall from their glory.}}
#* '''1919''', {{w|Albert Payson Terhune}}, ''[[s:Lad, A Dog/Chapter VI|Lad: A Dog]]'', Chapter VI: Lost!,
#*: A lost dog? — Yes. No succoring '''cohort''' surges to the relief. A gang of boys, perhaps, may give chase, but assuredly not in kindness.
# {{lb|en|statistics}} A [[demographic]] [[grouping]] of [[people]], especially those in a [[defined]] [[age]] group, or having a common characteristic.
#: ''The 18-24 '''cohort''' shows a sharp increase in automobile fatalities over the proximate age groupings.''
# {{lb|en|historical|Ancient Rome|military}} Any [[division]] of a [[Roman]] [[legion]], normally of about 500 or 600 [[men]] (equalling about six [[century|centuries]]).
#: ''Three '''cohorts''' of men were assigned to the region.''
#: {{hol|en|legion}}
#: {{mer|en|maniple|century}}
#* '''1900''', [[w:Cicero|Marcus Tullius Cicero]], {{w|Evelyn Shirley Shuckburgh|Evelyn Shuckburgh}} (translator), ''[[s:Letters to Atticus/5.20|Letters to Atticus]]'', 5.20,
#*: But he lost the whole of his first '''cohort''' and the centurion of the first line, a man of high rank in his own class, Asinius Dento, and the other centurions of the same '''cohort''', as well as a military tribune, Sext. Lucilius, son of T. Gavius Caepio, a man of wealth, and high position.
#* {{quote-text|en|year=1910|author=''{{w|Arthur Conan Doyle}}''|title=[[s:The Last of the Legions|The Last of the Legions]]|passage=But here it is as clear as words can make it: 'Bring every man of the Legions by forced marches to the help of the Empire. Leave not a '''cohort''' in Britain.' These are my orders.}}
#* '''1913''', ''[[s:Catholic Encyclopedia (1913)/Cornelius|Cornelius]]'', article in ''{{w|Catholic Encyclopedia}}'',
#*: The '''cohort''' in which he was centurion was probably the ''Cohors II Italica civium Romanorum'', which a recently discovered inscription proves to have been stationed in Syria before A.D. 69.
# An [[accomplice]]; [[abettor]]; [[associate]].
#: ''He was able to plea down his sentence by revealing the names of three of his '''cohorts''', as well as the source of the information.''
# Any [[band]] or [[body]] of [[warrior]]s.
#* '''1667''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''Paradise Lost''
#*: With him the '''cohort''' bright / Of watchful cherubim.
# {{lb|en|taxonomy}} A [[natural]] [[group]] of [[order]]s of [[organism]]s, less [[comprehensive]] than a [[class]].
# A [[colleague]].
# A set of individuals in a program, especially when compared to previous sets of individuals within the same program.
#: ''The students in my '''cohort''' for my organic chemistry class this year are not [[up to snuff]]. Last year's cohort scored much higher averages on the mid-term.''

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|infracohort}}
* {{l|en|subcohort}}
* {{l|en|supercohort}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|group of people supporting the same thing or person}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cohort|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kohorta|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kohorto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|kohort}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|joukko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Klasse|f}}, {{t+|de|Gruppe|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|истомисле́ници|m-p}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|seguidores|m-p}}, {{t|pt|seguidoras|f-p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|коллекти́в|m}}, {{t+|ru|гру́ппа|f}}, {{t+|ru|компа́ния|f}}, {{t+|ru|кого́рта|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|kohorta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|seguidor|alt=seguidores|m-p}}, {{t|es|cohorte|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|demographic grouping of people}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cohort|f}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|kohort}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kohortti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cohorte}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kohorte|f}}, {{t+|de|Klasse|f}}, {{t+|de|Kategorie|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kohor}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coorte}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|шоғырланым}}, {{t|kk|шоғартоп}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|coorte}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кого́рта|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|kohorta|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|kohorta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cohorte|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|division of Roman legion}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|kohorte}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|каго́рта|f}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cohort|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kohorta|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kohorto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|kohort}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kohortti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kohorte|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coorte}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ко́хорт|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|coorte|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кого́рта|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|kohorta|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|kohorta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cohorte}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|кого́рта|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|accomplice}}

{{trans-see|associate}}

{{trans-see|abettor}}

{{trans-see|colleague}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[associate]] with such a group

===See also===
* {{l|en|cahoots}}

===References===
* {{R:Etymonline}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=choort|chroot|rootch|trocho-}}

{{C|en|Collectives|People}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|ca|la|cohors}}. {{doublet|ca|cort}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{ca-IPA|ò}}

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|f}}

# {{l|en|cohort}} {{gloss|group of people supporting the same thing}}
# {{l|en|cohort}} {{gloss|demographic grouping of people}}
# {{l|en|cohort}} {{gloss|division of a Roman legion}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:IEC2}}