==English==

===Etymology===
Recorded since c.1378, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|ML.|en}} {{term|collateralis|collaterālis|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|col-||together with|lang=la}} (a form of {{term|con-|lang=la}}) + the stem of {{term|latus||side|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kəˈlætəɹəl/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[parallel]], along the same vein, [[side by side]].
# [[corresponding|Corresponding]]; [[accompanying]], [[concomitant]].
#* Wordsworth
#*: Yet the attempt may give / '''Collateral''' interest to this homely tale.
# Being [[aside]] from the main subject; [[tangential]], [[subordinate]], [[ancillary]].
#: ''Although not a direct cause, the border skirmish was certainly a '''collateral''' incitement for the war.''
#* Macaulay
#*: That he [Atterbury] was altogether in the wrong on the main question, and on all the '''collateral''' questions springing out of it, {{...}} is true.
# (''family'') of an [[indirect]] [[ancestral]] relationship, as opposed to [[lineal]] descendency.
#: ''Uncles, aunts, cousins, nephews and nieces are '''collateral''' relatives.
#* '''1885''', [[w:Richard Francis Burton|Richard Burton]], ''The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night'', volume 5,
#*: The pure blood all descends from five '''collateral''' lines called Al-Khamsah (the Cinque).
# relating to a collateral in the sense of an obligation or security
# expensive to the extent of being paid through a loan
# Coming or directed along the [[side]].
#: '''''collateral''' pressure''
#* Shakespeare
#*: '''collateral''' light
# Acting in an [[indirect]] way.
#* Shakespeare
#*: If by direct or by '''collateral''' hand / They find us touched, we will our kingdom give {{...}} / To you in satisfaction.

====Derived terms====
* [[collaterality]]
* [[collaterally]]
* [[collateral damage]]
* [[collateral form]]
* [[collateral security]]

====Related terms====
* [[lateral]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|parallel, along the same vein}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|успореден}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[旁系]]的|[[旁系]]的}} ([[páng]][[xì]][[de]])
* Dutch: {{t|nl|collateraal}}, [[neven]]-, {{t+|nl|zijdelings}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rinnakkainen}}, {{t|fi|rinnakkais-}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|傍系の|tr=bōkei no}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|평행한|tr=pyeonghaenghan}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|боковой|tr=bokovój|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|accompanying, concomitant}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съпътствуващ}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|collateraal}}, [[neven]]-, {{t+|nl|begeleidend}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сопутствующий|tr=sopútstvujuščij}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|dhamana}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|aside from the main subject; tangential, subordinate, ancillary}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|косвен}}
* Dutch: [[bij]]-, {{t+|nl|bijkomstig}}, [[hulp]]-, [[neven]]-, {{t+|nl|subsidiair}}, {{t+|nl|zijdelings}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|побочный|tr=pobóčnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|косвенный|tr=kósvennyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of an indirect, not linear ancestral family relationship}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[旁系]][[親屬]]|[[旁系]][[亲属]]}} ([[páng]][[xì]][[qīn]][[shǔ]])
* Dutch: [[zijdelings]] ([[verwant]])
* Finnish: [[sivusuku]]a [[oleva]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|collatéral}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|傍系親族の|tr=bōkei-shinzoku no}}, {{t|ja|傍系縁者の|tr=bōkei-enja no}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|боковой|tr=bokovój}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t+|fr|collatéral}}, {{t+|fr|indirecte}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A [[security]] or [[guarantee]] (usually an [[asset]]) pledged for the repayment of a [[loan]] if one cannot procure enough [[fund]]s to repay. (Originally supplied as "accompanying" security.)
# {{context|now|_|rare|lang=en}} A collateral (not [[linear]]) family member.
# A [[branch]] of a bodily part or system of organs
#: ''Besides the arteries blood streams through numerous veins we call '''collaterals'''

====Derived terms====
* [[marketing collateral]]

====Related terms====
* [[lateral]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|security or guarantee}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|擔保|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|担保|tr=dānbǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|抵押品|tr=dǐyāpǐn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kolaterál|m}}, {{t|cs|zajištění|n}}, {{t|cs|zástava|f}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onderpand|n}}, {{t+|nl|pand|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pantti}}, {{t+|fi|vakuus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|collatéral|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Sicherheit|f}}, {{t+|de|Pfand|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|担保|tr=たんぽ, tanpo|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|담보물|tr=dambomul|sc=Kore}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поручительство|n|tr=poručítelʹstvo|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|залог|m|tr=zalóg|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|záloha|f}}, {{t|sk|zástava|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|prenda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pant}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|collateral relative}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|nevenverwant|m}}, [[zijdelings]] [[verwant]] {{g|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|branch of a bodily part}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|vertakking}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|printed materials to present business information}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vakuus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|パンフレット|tr=panfuretto}}, {{t|ja|カタログ|tr=katarogu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[nantissement]] {{g|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[2차적인]] (ichajeogin)
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[aval]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[mortgage]]

[[Category:en:Family]]

[[et:collateral]]
[[el:collateral]]
[[fr:collateral]]
[[ko:collateral]]
[[io:collateral]]
[[kn:collateral]]
[[sw:collateral]]
[[lt:collateral]]
[[hu:collateral]]
[[ml:collateral]]
[[my:collateral]]
[[pl:collateral]]
[[ru:collateral]]
[[fi:collateral]]
[[sv:collateral]]
[[ta:collateral]]
[[te:collateral]]
[[chr:collateral]]
[[vi:collateral]]
[[zh:collateral]]