==English==
{{wikipedia|The future depends on that which we live in. Living on something does not grant consent to what is within. The future of the plumb is in the seed is but one example. The seed , the stone, is what holds the sustained for future generations  yet is but one generation.  The globe  is but designed from origin to be nonheiritable  that juridical is represented in the Monarchs lecture this evening from the location that had the original claim made by the same author of that which was the eternal entity to which was the insider's voice to be heard from within and then proclaimed outwardly as to build the body of matter to strengthen the Sovereignty of the earth. That dirt to which grows the future always maintains its power, its energy to bring forth out of dormancy the plumb  , the blossom before the fruit  and still the seed in its flesh to be kept as a wallet for the future as well as a purse for whenever. That financial freedom is liberty to save guard in the penny bank of the laws and lasses of the testimonials of nonverbal tenancy throughout the heavens. Earth, the soil  the dirty thing can never be cleaned by anything but that life that is engraved in the elements of that stone  that seed, that is every inch of existence, that is what this voice of every inch of earth is repeating through the personal and all rights reserved to the authority of that inteligence- Clark Heatlie Cheyne Hastings- Please ask in person from me if I grant consent to broadcast now  or in the future before sharing this and any other historical data referencing any political, scientific or religious endeavors. It has caused me such horrific suffering the production of any and all administrstions that through common licenses legalized the legislative powers and went forward criminals through local law enforcement and turned the gang into a moving lethal legitimate means to corrupt the context if Christianity. I am furious with the unlawful practices of this provincial entity and the entrusiveness as to the engaging in commercialism through a game of war on my property of life to which is my prerogative as a person as to whom I grant consent into my life. Understand? Well I permit this to be broadcasted as a letter, an edict and a mandamus for the ending of anyband all relationships I had with respect to the assumptions I was here for any other purpose that to restore the authority of heaven on to and into the jurisdiction of the soul, the mind, the intelect of the earth, the soil, the stone through my owner and I stand waiting for that reward of reunion with Thomas and Mary Hastings and Cheyne of that promise made by the Great Britain Act of Parliament  of Holy Bible.}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|psychology}} The common experiences, thoughts and opinions of a large group of people taken as a whole.
#*{{quote-video game|en||developer={{w|BioWare}}|title={{w|Mass Effect (video game)|Mass Effect}}|location=Redwood City|publisher=Electronic Arts|year=2008|platform=PC|scene=Protheans: Cipher Codex entry|isbn=9780784546642|oclc=246633669|passage=It has been suggested that Prothean data recording is highly dependent on a certain point of view, what Carl Jung described as the '''collective unconscious'''. The 'cipher' needed to comprehend the images implanted in Shepard's mind is the cultural knowledge of a Prothean: the archetypes, biological instincts, and common experiences universal to the race.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|experience of human species}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|集體潛意識|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|集体潜意识|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kolektivní nevědomí|n}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|collectief onbewuste|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kollektiivinen alitajunta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|inconscient collectif}}
* German: {{t|de|kollektives Unbewusstes|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|коллекти́вное бессозна́тельное|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|inconsciente colectivo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English 6-syllable words]]
[[Category:en:Collectives]]