{{also|colour}}<!--If you edit this entry, please also edit [[colour]] to ensure these two entries remain synchronized.-->[[Category:Synchronized entries|color]]
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[colour]] (''UK'', ''Ireland'', ''Australia'', ''Canada'', ''New Zealand'',  ''Singapore'', ''South Africa'', ''India'')

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|kŭl'ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈkʌl.ə(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/"kVl.@(r)/}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌlə(r)}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|kŭl'ər}}, {{IPA|/ˈkʌl.ɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"Vl.@`/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-color.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|color|colo(u)r|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|xno}} {{term|colur|lang=xno}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|colour|lang=fro}}, {{term|color|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|color|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|OL.}} ''[[colos]]'' "covering", from {{proto|Indo-European|kel-|to cover, conceal|lang=en}}. Akin to Latin {{term|celo|cēlō|I hide, conceal|lang=la}}. See usage note below. Replaced [[Middle English]] {{term|blee||color|lang=enm}} from Old English {{term|bleo|blēo|lang=ang}}. More at [[blee]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}  {{US}}

# The spectral composition of visible light.
#: ''Humans and birds can perceive '''color'''.''
# A particular set of visible spectral compositions, perceived or named as a class; [[blee]].
#: ''Most languages have names for the '''colors''' black, white, red, and green.''
# [[hue|Hue]] as opposed to [[achromatic]] colors (black, white and greys).
#: ''He referred to the white flag as one "drained of all '''color'''".''
# Human skin tone, especially as an indicator of race or ethnicity. 
#: '''''Color''' has been a sensitive issue in many societies.''
# {{figuratively}} interest, especially in a selective area.
#: ''a bit of local '''color'''.''
# In corporate finance, details on sales, profit margins, or other financial figures, especially while reviewing quarterly results when an officer of a company is speaking to investment analysts.
#: ''Could you give me some '''color''' with regards to which products made up the mix of revenue for this quarter?''
# {{physics}} A property of [[quark]]s, with three values called red, green, and blue, which they can [[exchange]] by passing [[gluon]]s.

{{color-colour (noun)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}  {{US}}

# Conveying color, as opposed to shades of gray.
#: '''''Color''' television and movies were considered a great improvement over black and white.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|conveying color}}
* Danish: [[farve-]]
* French: [[en couleur]]
* Hebrew: [[צבעוני]] (tziv'ony) {{m}}, [[צבעונית]] (tziv'onyt) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|színes}}
* Japanese: —[[色]][[の]] (—iro no)
* Mandarin: [[彩色]] (cǎisè)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}  {{US}}

# To give something color.
#: ''We could '''color''' the walls red.''
# To draw within the boundaries of a line drawing using colored markers or crayons.
#: ''My kindergartener loves to '''color'''.''
# {{context|of a face}} To become red through increased blood flow.
# To affect without completely changing.
#: ''That interpretation certainly '''colors''' my perception of the book.''
# To attribute a quality to.
#: (''colloquial'') '''''Color''' me confused.''

====Translations====
<noinclude>:''Return to [[color]] or [[colour]].''</noinclude>
{{trans-top|give something color}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ներկել|sc=Armn|tr=nerkel}}
*Breton: [[livañ]]
* Bulgarian: [[оцветявам]]
*Catalan: [[acolorir]]
*Chinese: [[填色]] (tián sè), [[上色]] (shàng sè), [[著色]] (zhuó sè)
*Czech: [[obarvit]]
*Danish: [[farve]], [[male]]
*Dutch: [[kleuren]]
*Esperanto: [[kolorigi]]
*Finnish: [[värjätä]]
*French: [[colorer]], [[teinter]]
*Galician: [[colorar]]
*German: [[färben]]
*Greek: [[χρωματίζω]] (khromatízo)
*Hebrew: [[לצבוע]] (litzboa)
{{trans-mid}}
*Hungarian: [[színez]]
*Interlingua: [[colorar]]
*Italian: [[colorare]], [[colorire]]
*Japanese: [[塗る]] (nuru)
*Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[ره‌نگ کردن]]}}
*Malay: {{t|ms|mewarna}}
*Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[رنگ کردن]]}} (rang kardan)
*Polish: [[kolorować]], [[barwić]], [[zabarwiać]]
*Portuguese: [[colorir]]
*Romanian: a [[colora]]
*Russian: [[красить]] (krásit’) {{impf}}, [[покрасить]] (pokrásit’) {{pf}}
*Slovene: [[pobarvati]]
*Spanish: {{t|es|colorar}}, {{t|es|colorear}}, {{t|es|teñir}}
*Swedish: [[färgsätta]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|draw using crayons}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ներկել|sc=Armn|tr=nerkel}}
* Bulgarian: [[оцветявам]]
*Danish: [[male]]
*Dutch: [[kleuren]]
*Finnish: [[värittää]]
*French: [[colorier]]
*Hungarian: [[színez]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[colorare]]
*Japanese: [[塗る]] (nuru)
*Russian: [[раскрашивать]] (raskrášivat') {{impf}} [[раскрасить]] (raskrásit') {{pf}}
*Slovene: [[narisati]]
*Swedish: [[måla]], [[färglägga]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|become red through increased blood flow}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կարմրել|sc=Armn|tr=karmrel}}
* Bulgarian: [[изчервявам се]]
*Czech: [[zardít se]], [[začervenat se]]
*Danish: [[få kulør]], [[få farve]], [[rødme]]
*Dutch: {{t|nl|blozen}}, een {{t|nl|kleur}} krijgen, {{t|nl|kleuren}}
*French: [[rougir]]
*German:  [[erröten]]
*Greek: [[κοκκινίζω]] (kokinizo)
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[להסמיק]] (le'hasmyq)
*Hungarian: [[elpirul]]
*Italian: [[arrossire]], [[colorire]]
*Japanese: [[染める]] (someru)
*Russian: [[краснеть]] (krasn'ét’), [[рдеться]] (rdét’s'a)
*Slovene: [[zardeti]]
*Swedish: [[rodna]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|affect without completely changing}}
*Danish: [[farve]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Dutch: [[kleuren]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Amuzgo|[[Amuzgo]]}}: [[kolô]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{fa-Arab|[[رنگ کردن]]}} (rang kardan), {{fa-Arab|[[رزیدن]]}} (razidan)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Usage notes===
The late {{etyl|xno}} ''colour'', which is the standard UK spelling, has been the usual spelling in Britain since the 14th century and was chosen by [[w:Samuel Johnson|Dr. Johnson]]'s ''[[w:A Dictionary of the English Language|Dictionary of the English Language]]'' (1755) along with other {{etyl|xno}} spellings such as [[favour]], [[honour]], etc. The Latin spelling ''color'' was occasionally used from the 15th century onward, mainly due to Latin influence; it was lemmatized by [[w:Noah Webster|Webster]]'s ''[[w:Webster's Dictionary|American Dictionary of the English Language]]'' (1828), along with [[favor]], [[honor]], etc., and is currently the standard U.S. spelling.

In Canada, ''colour'' is preferred, but ''color'' is not unknown; in Australia, ''-our'' endings are the standard, although ''-or'' endings had some currency in the past and are still sporadically found in some regions.

===References===
* ''The Oxford English Dictionary'', second edition (1989), s.v. ''colour, color, n.''<sup>1</sup>
* ''Webster's Third New International Dictionary'' (1961; repr. 2002), p. 24a.
* Pam Peters, ''The Cambridge Guide to English Usage'' (2004), pp. 397-398.

===Related terms===
: ''See'' [[Appendix:Colors|Appendix:Colors]]
* [[color charge]]
* [[color commentator]]
* [[colored]]
* [[colorism]]
* [[colors]]
* [[in color]]
* [[off-color]]
* [[color-blind]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|lang=la|color}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Eastern Catalan}} {{IPA|lang=ca|[kuˈlo]}}
* {{a|Western Catalan|Mallorca}} {{IPA|lang=ca|[koˈlo]}}

===Noun===
{{ca-noun-mf}}

# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|spectral composition of visible light}}. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|particular set of the visible spectrum}}. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[colorant|Colorant]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colourant]]; [[dye]]; [[pigment]]. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|hue as opposed to achromatic colors}}. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|human skin tone, as an indicator of race or ethnicity}}. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|human skin tone, as an indicator of physical or emotional well-being}}. 
# {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|standard or banner (colors or colours)}}.
# {{heraldry|lang=ca}} {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|any of the standard dark tinctures used in a coat of arms}}.
# {{figurative|lang=ca}} {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]] {{gloss|distinguishing characteristic}}.
# {{literature|art|lang=ca}} {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]]. {{gloss|the characteristics that give life or energy to a work}}
# {{music|lang=ca}} {{qualifier|US}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]]; [[timbre]].
# {{physics|lang=ca}} [[#English|Color]];  {{qualifier|UK}} [[colour]]. {{gloss|one of the three states of a [[quark]] in [[chromodynamics]]}}

====Usage notes====
'''{{term||Color}}''' can used as either a masculine or feminine noun in Catalan, but masculine usage is considerably more common.

[[Category:ca:Colors]]
[[Category:ca:Materials]]
[[Category:ca:Medicine]]
[[Category:ca:People]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''color''' {{m}} {{inv}}

# {{apocopic form of|colore|lang=Italian}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|cloor}}
* [[cloro#Italian|cloro]]

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
{{la-noun|color|coloris|colōris|m|third}}

# a [[#English|color]], (UK) [[colour]]

====Inflection====
{{la-decl-3rd|color|color|color|colōr}}

====Derived terms====
* [[homo nulli coloris]]

----

==Old French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fro}} {{term|color|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{fro-noun-f}}

# {{l|en|color}}/[[colour]]

====Descendants====
* French: [[couleur]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m|pl=colores}}

# color, [[hue]]
# [[rouge]] ''(cosmetics)''
# [[pretext]], [[motive]], [[reason]]
# [[character]]
# [[side]], [[party]], [[faction]]
# [[race]], [[ethnicity]]
# ''(poker'') [[flush]]

====Related terms====
* [[colorado]]
* [[colorar]]
* [[colorear]]
* [[colorir]]
* [[descolorar]]
* [[incoloro]]
* [[colorante]]
* [[coloración]]
* [[colorete]]
* [[colorido]]
* [[colorín]]

[[Category:es:Colors|*color]]
[[Category:es:Vision]]

[[ar:color]]
[[ca:color]]
[[de:color]]
[[et:color]]
[[el:color]]
[[es:color]]
[[fr:color]]
[[fy:color]]
[[ko:color]]
[[hy:color]]
[[io:color]]
[[id:color]]
[[it:color]]
[[kk:color]]
[[ky:color]]
[[ku:color]]
[[lo:color]]
[[la:color]]
[[lt:color]]
[[li:color]]
[[hu:color]]
[[nl:color]]
[[ja:color]]
[[no:color]]
[[oc:color]]
[[pl:color]]
[[pt:color]]
[[ru:color]]
[[simple:color]]
[[fi:color]]
[[sv:color]]
[[ta:color]]
[[te:color]]
[[th:color]]
[[tr:color]]
[[uk:color]]
[[vi:color]]
[[zh:color]]