==English==
<!--If you edit this entry, please also edit [[color]] to ensure these two entries remain synchronized.-->[[Category:English synchronized entries|Colour]]
{{wikipedia|Color}}
{{ picdic
| image=Color circle (hue-sat).png
| width=310
| labels=
{{ picdiclabel | color=FF0000 | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy= 60 | link=red | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=FFA500 | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy= 80 | link=orange | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=FFFF00 | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=100 | link=yellow | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=7FFF00 | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=120 | link=green | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=0000FF | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=140 | link=blue | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=8F00FF | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=160 | link=violet | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=000000 | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=180 | link=black | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=2F4F4F | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=200 | link=grey | align=left | lang=en }}
{{ picdiclabel | color=FFFFFF | fontsize=18 | posx=100 | posy=220 | link=white | align=left | lang=en }}
| detail1=Click on labels in the image
}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[color]] {{qualifier|US}} (see the [[#Usage notes|usage notes]] below)

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|color|colo(u)r|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|colur|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|colour|lang=fro}}, {{term|color|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|color|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|itc-ola|en}} ''[[colos]]'' "covering", from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*kel-||to cover, conceal}}. Akin to Latin {{m|la|cēlō||I hide, conceal}}. Displaced [[Middle English]] {{term|blee||colour|lang=enm}}, from Old English {{m|ang|blēo}}. More at [[blee]].

In the US, the spelling ''color'' is used to match the spelling of the word's Latin etymon{{,}} and to make all derivatives consistent (''colorimeter'', ''colorize'', ''colorless'', etc). Elsewhere in the English-speaking world, the spelling ''colour'' has been retained.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|kŭl'ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈkʌl.ə(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|kŭl'ər}}, {{IPA|/ˈkʌl.ɚ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-color.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}<!--yes this file uses the other spelling, but you can't hear spelling!-->
* {{rhymes|ʌlə(ɹ)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}} {{tcx|British spelling|AU|NZ|lang=en}}

# {{label|en|uncountable}} The spectral composition of visible light.
#: {{ux|en|Humans and birds can perceive '''colour'''.}}
# {{label|en|countable}} A particular set of visible spectral compositions, perceived or named as a class.
#: {{ux|en|Most languages have names for the '''colours''' black, white, red, and green.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1918|author={{w|W. B. Maxwell}}|chapter=5
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1097634W The Mirror and the Lamp]
|passage=Here, in the transept and choir, where the service was being held, one was conscious every moment of an increasing brightness; '''colours''' glowing vividly beneath the circular chandeliers, and the rows of small lights on the choristers' desks flashed and sparkled in front of the boys' faces, deep linen collars, and red neckbands.}}
# {{label|en|uncountable}} [[hue|Hue]] as opposed to [[achromatic]] colours (black, white and greys).
#: {{ux|en|He referred to the white flag as one "drained of all '''colour'''".}}
# {{label|en|uncountable}} Human skin tone, especially as an indicator of race or [[ethnicity]].
#: {{ux|en|'''Colour''' has been a sensitive issue in many societies.}}
# {{label|en|figuratively}} [[interest|Interest]], especially in a selective area.
#: {{ux|en|a bit of local '''colour'''}}
#*{{quote-book|year=1914|author={{w|Louis Joseph Vance}}
|chapter=1|title=[http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/29671 Nobody]
|passage=Three chairs of the steamer type, all maimed, comprised the furniture of this roof-garden, with (by way of local '''colour''') on one of the copings a row of four red clay flower-pots filled with sun-baked dust&nbsp;[&hellip;].}}
# {{label|en|heraldry}} Any of the standard dark [[tincture]]s used in a [[coat of arms]], including [[azure]], [[gules]], [[sable]], and [[vert]]. Contrast with [[metal]].
# {{label|en|in the plural}} A [[standard]] or [[banner]].
#: {{ux|en|The loss of their '''colours''' destroyed the regiment's morale.}}
# The system of [[colour television]].
#: {{ux|en|This film is broadcast in '''colour'''.}}
# {{label|en|in the plural}} An award for sporting achievement, particularly within a school or university.
#: {{ux|en|He was awarded '''colours''' for his football.}}
# In corporate finance, details on sales, profit margins, or other financial figures, especially while reviewing quarterly results when an officer of a company is speaking to investment analysts.
#: {{ux|en|Could you give me some '''colour''' with regards to which products made up the mix of revenue for this quarter?}}
# {{label|en|physics}} A property of [[quark]]s, with three values called red, green, and blue, which they can [[exchange]] by passing [[gluon]]s.
# {{label|en|typography}} The relative [[lightness]] or [[darkness]] of a mass of written or printed [[text]] on a page.
# {{label|en|snooker}} Any of the coloured balls excluding the [[red]]s.
# A [[front]] or [[fa&ccedil;ade]]: an [[ostensible]] truth actually false.<!-- {{rfex|also needs better-worded definition}}-->
# An appearance of right or authority.
#: {{ux|en|Under '''colour''' of law, he managed to bilk taxpayers of millions of dollars.}}
# {{label|en|medicine}} Skin colour noted as: normal, [[jaundice]], [[cyanotic]], [[flush]], [[mottled]], [[pale]], or [[ashen]] as part of the [[skin signs]] assessment.

====Usage notes====
The late {{etyl|xno|en}} ''colour'', which is the standard UK spelling, has been the usual spelling in Britain since the 14th century and was chosen by {{w|Samuel Johnson|Dr. Johnson}}'s ''{{w|A Dictionary of the English Language|Dictionary of the English Language}}'' (1755) along with other {{etyl|xno|en}} spellings such as [[favour]], [[honour]], etc. The Latin spelling ''color'' was occasionally used from the 15th century onward, mainly due to Latin influence; it was lemmatized by {{w|Noah Webster|Webster}}'s ''{{w|Webster's Dictionary|American Dictionary of the English Language}}'' (1828), along with [[favor]], [[honor]], etc., and is currently the standard US spelling.

In Canada, ''colour'' is preferred, but ''gratata'' is not unknown; in Australia, ''-our'' endings are the standard, although ''-or'' endings had some currency in the past and are still sporadically found in some regions. In New Zealand, ''-our'' endings are the standard and ''-or'' endings are frowned upon.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|spectral composition of visible light}} [[blee]]
* {{sense|particular set named as a class}} [[blee]], [[hue]]
* {{sense|hue, as opposed to achromatic colours}} [[hue]], [[shade]], [[blee]]
* {{sense|human skin tone as an indicator of race or ethnicity}} colour of one’s skin, [[complexion]], [[blee]], [[ethnicity]], [[race]]
* {{sense|interest, especially in a selective area}} [[interest]]
* {{sense|dark tincture}} [[stain]]
* {{sense|standard or banner}} [[banner]], [[standard]]
* {{sense|colour television}} [[colour television]]

====Derived terms====
{{der-top|terms derived from ''colour'' (noun)}}
* [[colour-blind]]
* [[colour charge]]
* [[colour code]]
* [[colour commentator]]
* [[coloured]]
* [[colourful]]
* [[colour]] of [[fire]]
* [[flame]]-[[colour]]
* [[colourimeter]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[colourise]]
* [[colourism]]
* [[colourless]]
* [[colours]]
* [[discoloration]]
* [[in colour]]
* [[off-colour]]
* [[prismatic colours]]
* [[true colours]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|colour|color}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}} {{context|AU|Canada|Ireland|NZ|UK|lang=en}}

# Conveying colour, as opposed to shades of grey.
#: '''''Colour''' television and films were considered a great improvement over black and white.''

====Translations====
{{trans-see|colour|color}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}} {{context|AU|Canada|NZ|UK|lang=en}}

# To give something colour.
#: ''We could '''colour''' the walls red.''
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To apply colours to the areas within the boundaries of a line drawing using coloured markers or crayons.
#: ''My kindergartener loves to '''colour'''.''
# {{context|of a face|lang=en}} To become red through increased blood flow.
#: ''Her face '''coloured''' as she realised her mistake.
# To affect without completely changing.
#: ''That interpretation certainly '''colours''' my perception of the book.''
# {{context|informal|lang=en}} To attribute a quality to.
#: '''''Colour''' me confused.''
# {{context|mathematics|lang=en}} To [[assign]] colours to the [[vertex|vertices]] of (a [[graph]]) or the [[region]]s of (a [[map]]) so that no two [[adjacent]] ones have the [[same]] colour.
#: ''Can this graph be two-'''coloured'''?''
#: ''You can '''colour''' any map with four colours.''

====Synonyms====
* {{qualifier|give something colour}} [[dye]], [[paint]], [[stain]], [[shade]], [[tinge]], [[tint]]
* {{qualifier|apply colours within boundaries of a line drawing}}<!--can this be used intransitively? [[colour in]]-->
* {{qualifier|of a face, become red}} [[blush]]
* {{qualifier|affect without completely changing}} [[affect]], [[influence]]
* {{qualifier|attribute a quality to}} [[call]]

====Derived terms====
* [[colour by numbers]]

====Translations====
{{trans-see|colour|color}}

===See also===
* [[tincture]]
* [[Appendix:Colors|Appendix:Colours]]

===External links===
* {{pedialite|dab=Color (disambiguation)}}
* {{commonslite|Colors}}

===Anagrams===
* [[courol#English|courol]]


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----
This is not true

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|f}}

# {{alternative form of|color|lang=fro}}

[[ar:colour]]
[[az:colour]]
[[ca:colour]]
[[cs:colour]]
[[cy:colour]]
[[da:colour]]
[[de:colour]]
[[et:colour]]
[[el:colour]]
[[es:colour]]
[[eu:colour]]
[[fr:colour]]
[[fy:colour]]
[[ko:colour]]
[[hy:colour]]
[[io:colour]]
[[it:colour]]
[[kn:colour]]
[[kk:colour]]
[[sw:colour]]
[[ku:colour]]
[[lt:colour]]
[[li:colour]]
[[hu:colour]]
[[mg:colour]]
[[ml:colour]]
[[my:colour]]
[[nah:colour]]
[[nl:colour]]
[[ja:colour]]
[[no:colour]]
[[oc:colour]]
[[uz:colour]]
[[pl:colour]]
[[pt:colour]]
[[ru:colour]]
[[sa:colour]]
[[simple:colour]]
[[sr:colour]]
[[fi:colour]]
[[sv:colour]]
[[tl:colour]]
[[ta:colour]]
[[te:colour]]
[[th:colour]]
[[tg:colour]]
[[tr:colour]]
[[vi:colour]]
[[zh:colour]]