==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|commission|lang=fro}}, from Latin {{term|commissio||sending together; commission|lang=la}}, from prefix {{term|com-||with|lang=la}}, + noun of action {{term|missio||sending|lang=la}}, from perfect passive participle {{term|missus||sent|lang=la}}, from the verb {{term|mittō|||to send|lang=la}}, + noun of action suffix {{term|-io|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kəˈmɪʃən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/k@"mIS@n/}}
* {{audio|en-us-commission.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪʃən}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A sending or mission (to do or accomplish something).
#: ''It was James Bond's '''commission''' to defeat the bad guys.''
# An official charge or authority to do something, often used of military officers.
#: ''David received his '''commission''' after graduating from West Point.''
# A [[body]] or group of people, officially tasked with carrying out a particular function. Eg: The European Commission, The Electoral Commission, The Federal Communications Commission.
#: ''The company's sexual harassment '''commission''' made sure that every employee completed the on-line course.''
# A fee charged by an agent or broker for carrying out a transaction. Eg: Reseller commission, Finder's fee.
#: ''The real-estate broker charged a four percent '''commission''' for their knowledge on bidding for commercial properties; for their intellectual perspective on making a formal offer and the strategy to obtain a mutually satisfying deal with the seller in favour of the buyer .''
# the act of committing (e.g. a crime)
#: ''the '''commission''', preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism''
# The name of a service provided to validate the completeness and accuracy of a project or venture.
#: ''At the end of the school renovation project, Independent Commissioning Consulting, LLC will '''commission''' the buildings energy management system to ensure its functionality and conformance to the school districts specifications.

====Synonyms====
* ''body of officials:'' [[committee]], [[government body]]
* ''fee charged:'' [[brokerage]]

====Derived terms====
* [[commissioner]]
* [[European Commission]]
* [[out of commission]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mission}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|поръчение|n|tr=porăčenie|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tehtävä}}, {{t|fi|toimeksianto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|misiune|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|barrantachd|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|official authority}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|назначение|n|tr=nazačenie|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|toimeksianto}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|coimisiún|m}}
* Latin: {{t|la|commissio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komisja|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|комиссия|f|tr=komíssija|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|назначение|n|tr=naznačénije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|barrantachd|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|body of officials}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|কমিশন|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|комисия|f|tr=komisija|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|komise|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|commissie|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|komisiono}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|komitea}}, {{t|fi|toimikunta}}, {{t|fi|valtuuskunta}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kommission|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|coimisiún|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کمیسیون|tr=komisiyon|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|komisja|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|комиссия|f|tr=komíssija|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comisión|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kommission|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fee charged}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|комисионна|f|tr=komisionna|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|provize|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afsluitprovisie|f}}, {{t|nl|afsluitpremie|f}}, {{t+|nl|commissie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|komissio}}, {{t|fi|provisio}}, {{t|fi|välityspalkkio}}
* French: {{t+|fr|commission|f}}, {{t|fr|commission d'agent immobilier|f}}, {{t+|fr|courtage|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Abschlußprämie|f}}, {{t|de|Abschlußprovision|f}}, {{t+|de|Provision|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|coimisiún|m}}
* Luhya: {{t|luy|ekodi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کمیسیون|tr=komisiyon|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowizja|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|комиссия|f|tr=komíssija|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|комиссионные|p|tr=komissiónnyje|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comisión|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kodi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kommission|c}}, {{t+|sv|avgift|c}}, {{t+|sv|provision|c}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|தரகு|tr=taraku|sc=Taml}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To send or officially charge someone or some group to do something.
#: ''James Bond was '''commissioned''' with recovering the secret documents.''
#* '''2012''', August 1. Owen Gibson in Guardian Unlimited, [http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/aug/01/london-2012-glover-stanning-gb-gold London 2012: rowers Glover and Stanning win Team GB's first gold medal]
#*: Stanning, who was '''commissioned''' from Sandhurst in 2008 and has served in Aghanistan, is not the first solider to bail out the organisers at these Games but will be among the most celebrated.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To place an order for (often piece of art); as, commission a portrait.
#: ''He '''commissioned''' a replica of the Mona Lisa for his living room, but the painter gave up after six months.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To put into active service; as, commission a ship.
#: ''The aircraft carrier was '''commissioned''' in 1944, during WWII.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|send to do something}}
* Finnish: [[antaa tehtäväksi]]
* French: {{t+|fr|charger}}, {{t+|fr|missionner}}
* German: {{t+|de|beauftragen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zlecać}}, {{t|pl|zlecić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encarregar}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|barrantaich}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|order a work of art}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|поръчвам|tr=porăčvam|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[tilaus]], [[tilata]]
* French: {{t+|fr|commander}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|in Auftrag geben}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|barrantaich}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encargar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|put into active service}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|пускам в експлоатация}}
* Finnish: [[asettaa palvelukseen]]
* French: {{t|fr|mettre en service}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|in Dienst stellen}}, {{t|de|in Betrieb nehmen}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|kodisha}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-commission.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#English|commission]] {{gloss|fee charged by an agent or broker for carrying out a transaction}}

====Descendants====
* Persian: {{l|fa|کمیسیون|tr=komisiyon}}

[[ar:commission]]
[[cs:commission]]
[[cy:commission]]
[[de:commission]]
[[et:commission]]
[[el:commission]]
[[es:commission]]
[[eo:commission]]
[[fa:commission]]
[[fr:commission]]
[[ko:commission]]
[[io:commission]]
[[id:commission]]
[[it:commission]]
[[kn:commission]]
[[sw:commission]]
[[ku:commission]]
[[li:commission]]
[[hu:commission]]
[[mg:commission]]
[[ml:commission]]
[[my:commission]]
[[no:commission]]
[[pl:commission]]
[[ru:commission]]
[[sa:commission]]
[[simple:commission]]
[[fi:commission]]
[[sv:commission]]
[[ta:commission]]
[[te:commission]]
[[chr:commission]]
[[tr:commission]]
[[vi:commission]]
[[zh:commission]]