==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]] /'kɒmjunɪzm/

===Etymology===
A calque of the German word ''[[Kommunismus]]'' (from Marx and Engels's ''[http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1848/communist-manifesto/index.htm Manifesto of the German Communist Party]''), in turn a calque of the French word ''[[communisme]]'', which was formed from ''[[commun]]'' ("common"), from Latin ''[[communis]]'', and the suffix [[-isme]] ("[[-ism]]").

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A term used to refer to a number of political philosophies or ideologies which share the belief in the virtue of holding the production resources collectively. 
# A society organized in line with the communist theories. According to the theory the ultimate aim is the abolishment of state, but in practice the attempts to create a communist society have led to [[totalitarian]] states.
<!-- # The ideology of parties that use the term "Communist" in their name, i.e. [[Leninist]]s and [[Stalinist]]s.
# The socio-economic system in countries ruled by regimes that use the term "Communist", i.e. Leninist and Stalinist governments running systems involving tight State control of industry and the populace.
# A classless, stateless, society in which its members have free access to all resources. -->
# {{US|informal}} A state of affairs perceived as [[oppressive]], overly [[arbitrary]], or [[totalitarian]]. 
#*'''1953 (pub. 1997),''' Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy ed., ''Hinge of Generations-1953 Transcripts'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN091214825X&id=faq3Bng7IeYC&pg=RA1-PA24-IA44&lpg=RA1-PA24-IA44&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=euXrX5FOsAMFM3BcT3cmzgFmKb8]
#*:...he shouldn't...just...[say]..."I -- I am responsible for prosperity,"...that's '''Communism''', Sir, you see. 
#*'''1992''', Sylvia Whitman, ''V Is for Victory: The American Home Front During World War II'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0822517272&id=NoieB4ELLAgC&pg=PA57&lpg=PA57&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=m5yurFCa3ukbwM0VW74RVK4DuD0]
#*:Although her elder daughter, Jane, complains, “that's '''Communism''',” Mrs. Hilton rents her own bedroom to a retired colonel.
#*'''1998''', Joseph Martin Hernon, ''Profiles in Character: Hubris and Heroism in the U.S. Senate, 1789-1990'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1563249383&id=ByeH99C-N_AC&pg=PA198&lpg=PA198&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=fDBorCuRt2cc10fpTCa449WAFKI]
#*:...[he] condemned Thurmond's proposal for its “totalitarianism”: “That's '''Communism'''....That's China. That's not America.

====Related terms====
*[[communal]]
*[[commune]]
*[[communist]]
*[[commie]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|philosophy}}
*Czech: [[komunismus#Czech|komunismus]] {{m}}
*Estonian: [[kommunism]]
*Finnish: [[kommunismi]]
*French: [[communisme]]
*German: [[Kommunismus]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[коммунизм]] (kommunízm) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[comunismo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kommunism]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|society}}
*Estonian: [[kommunism]]
*Finnish: [[kommunismi]]
*French: [[communisme]]
*German: [[Kommunismus]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[коммунизм]] (kommunízm) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[comunismo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kommunism]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[komunizëm]]
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[شيوعية]]}}
*{{ttbc|Azerbaijani}}: [[kommunizm]]
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[komunizam]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[komunouriezh]]
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[комунизъм]] ''(komunizăm)''
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[comunisme]]
*Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|共產主義|共产主义}} ([[gòngchǎn zhǔyì]])
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[komunizam]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: [[kommunisme]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[communisme]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[komunismo]]
*{{ttbc|Galician}}: [[comunismo]]
*{{ttbc|Georgian}}: [[კომუნიზმი]] ''(komunizmi)''
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[κομμουνισμός]] ''(kommounismós)''
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[קומוניזם]] (qomunizm)
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[साम्यवाद]] (sāmyavād)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[kommunizmus]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[komunisme]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[cumannachas]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[comunismo]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[共産主義]] ([[きょうさんしゅぎ]], kyōsan-shugi)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[공산주의]] ''(gongsanjuŭi)''
*{{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[komunizmas]]
*{{ttbc|Latvian}}: [[komunisms]]
*{{ttbc|Lojban}}: [[guntrusi'o]]
*{{ttbc|Malay}}: [[komunisme]]
*{{ttbc|Min Nan}}: [[kiōng-sán-chú-gī]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[kommunisme]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[کمونیسم]]}}, {{FAchar|[[اصول اشتراکی]]}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[komunizm]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[comunismo]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[comunism]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[комунизам]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[komunizam#Serbian|komunizam]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Sicilian}}: [[cumunismu]]
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[komunizmus]]
*{{ttbc|Slovenian}}: [[komunizem]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[komünızm]]
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{URchar|[[اشتراکیت]]}} (aštrākiyat)
*{{ttbc|Uyghur}}: [[kommunizm]]
*{{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[chủ nghĩa cộng sản]]
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[comiwnyddiaeth]]
*{{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[komunism]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Usage notes====
This note is discussed on the talk page.
*Beginning in the 1950s, the term '''communism''' was used to describe something negative. This usage is very similar to the way the word ''[[gay]]'' is used. This practice is derived from the fact that people, during the [[Wikipedia:Red Scare|Red Scare]], accused those they disliked of being communists for ludicrous reasons. For example, when a test is difficult or unfair, one can say, "That's communism." This colloquial usage is restricted primarily to [[American English]].

===See also===
*[[leftism]]
*[[Leninism]]
*[[liberalism]]
*[[Maoism]]
*[[Marxism]]
*[[socialism]]
*[[Stalinism]]
*[[Trotskyism]]

[[Category:Communism]]
[[Category:Marxism]]

[[ar:communism]]
[[zh-min-nan:communism]]
[[fr:communism]]
[[ko:communism]]
[[io:communism]]
[[id:communism]]
[[it:communism]]
[[hu:communism]]
[[ru:communism]]
[[fi:communism]]
[[vi:communism]]
[[zh:communism]]