==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[compromise|compromising]]
Answer 
Clemenceau of France was in the treaty for revenge on germany and for the money, he wanted too much. Lloyd george was worried about losing his connection of trading with germany so he didnt want to be too harsh but he also wanted their empire, so he was on the verge of having acceptable terms. Woodrow wilson wanted 1 thing, pece with germany and he also thought it would be a good idea to help rebuild germany so that it could prevent future wars. Woodrow wilson was too kind.[1]



Answer 
France: France wanted (really) one thing, which was revenge. They really wanted to punish Germamy for the damage and destruction WW1 had caused. They had suffered badly, as most of the fighting had been on French soil. USA: The USA contradicted France, as they didn't really want to punish Germany that much. This means that neither one could achieve what they wanted, without upsetting the other. (If USA got their way, France would be angry because they'd think Germany had got off lightly). United Kingdom: Britain had a nice, comfortable Empire in 1918, and wanted to expand (so did France). However, USA wanted to give independence to all colonies. This is another unsatisfactory compromise, which could not please all of the "Big Three" All in all, the Treaty of the Versaille is a good compromisation from all of the aims. But those aims laid down it the first place, few were met, and not one leader walked away with everything he wished for from the Conference.[2] 



Tax Audit & Risk HELP
TaxRadar will eliminate your worry Resolve with this Special Report
www.TaxRiskManagement.com

War Veterans Help
Sign Up for Our Free 7-Day "Nuts & Bolts Guide to VA Benefits"!
LawElderLaw.com/VA-Benefits

Oil Prices are Surging
Do Not Trade Oil Until you read This Critical Free market report.
FuturesCrude.com/Free-Report

    
First answer by Miss-Niffler. Last edit by Miss-Niffler. Contributor trust: 106 [recommend contributor]. Question popularity: 142 [recommend question] 

Mrs. Akram Banai Accountant Research on
compromisation generally is Preeminence of Law.