==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|comparatif|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|comparativus|lang=la}}, equivalent to {{term|comparatus|lang=la}}, from {{term|comparare||to compare|lang=la}} + {{term|-ive}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|-ivus|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/kəmˈpæɹ.ə.tɪf/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-comparative.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or relating to [[comparison]].
#* Granvill
#*: The '''comparative''' faculty.
# Using comparison as a method of study, or founded on something using it.
#: '''''comparative''' anatomy''
# Approximated by comparison; [[relative]].
#* Whewell
#*: The recurrence of '''comparative''' warmth and cold.
#* Bentley
#*: The bubble, by reason of its '''comparative''' levity to the fluid that encloses it, would necessarily ascend to the top.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[comparable|Comparable]]; bearing comparison.
#* '''1819''', Lord Byron, ''Don Juan'', II.137:
#*: And need he had of slumber yet, for none / Had suffered more—his hardships were '''comparative''' / To those related in my grand-dad's ''Narrative''.

====Derived terms====
* [[comparatively]]
* {{l/en|comparative method}}
* [[comparativeness]]
* [[comparativism]]
* [[comparativist]]
* [[comparativistic]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of or relating to comparison}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сравнителен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|comparatiu}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|verrannollinen}}, {{t|fi|vertaileva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comparatif|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συγκριτικός|tr=sygkritikós|sc=Grek}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|comparáideach}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comparativo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|compathatif}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|komparativ}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|تفضیلی}}, {{t+|fa|تطبیقی}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|comparativ}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сравнительный|tr=sravnít'el'nyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comparativo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|using comparison as a method of study}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сравнителен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|comparatiu}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vertaileva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comparatif|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συγκριτικός|tr=sygkritikós|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comparativo|m}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|compathatif}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|comparativ|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сравнительный|tr=sravnít'el'nyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comparativo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|relative}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|относителен}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suhteellinen}}, {{t|fi|verrannollinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|относительный|tr=otnosít'el'nyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comparativo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[wiþmetenlic]], [[wiþmetendlic]]
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[vergleichend]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|grammar|lang=en}} A construction showing a [[relative]] [[quality]], in English usually formed by adding ''[[more]]'' or appending ''[[-er]]''. For example, the comparative of ''green'' is ''greener''; of ''evil'', ''more evil''.
# {{context|grammar|lang=en}} A word in the '''comparative''' form.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} An [[equal]]; a [[rival]]; a [[compeer]].
#* Beaumont and Fletcher
#*: Gerard ever was / His full '''comparative'''.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} One who makes [[comparison]]s; one who [[affect]]s [[wit]].
#* [[:w:en:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry IV, Pt. 1'' (1597), [[:s:en:The First Part of King Henry the Fourth#Scene II. London. A Room in the Palace.|III.ii]].67:
#*: Every beardless vain '''comparative'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|grammatical construction}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сравнителна степен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|comparatiu|m}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|miðstig|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|komparatiivi}}, {{t|fi|vertailumuoto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comparatif|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Vergleichsform|f}}, {{t+|de|Komparativ|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συγκριτικός|m|tr=sygkritikós|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|középfok}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|breischéim|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comparativo|m}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|compathatif|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|stopień wyższy|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|kȍmparatīv|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comparativo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|komparativ|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|word in comparative form}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|comparatiu|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Simplified: [[比较]]
*: Traditional: [[比較]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|komparativ|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vergrotende trap|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|komparatiivi}}, {{t|fi|vertailumuoto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comparatif|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Komparativ|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συγκριτικός|m|tr=sygkritikós|sc=Grek}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|miðstig|n}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comparativo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|比較級|tr=hikakukyū}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|compathatif|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|비교급|tr=bu-gyo-geup,比較級|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t|la|comparativus|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|komparativ}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|komparative}}
* Old English: [[óðer]]e [[wordmittung]] {{g|f}}, [[óðer]]e [[wordsomnung]] {{g|f}};
* Persian: {{t|fa|صفت برتر|tr=sefat-e bartar}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|stopień wyższy|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|comparativo|m}}
* Russian: [[сравнительный|сравнительная]] [[степень]] (sravnítel’naja stépen’) {{g|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|kȍmparatīv|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comparativo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|komparativ|n}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|cấp so sánh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* [[absolute]], [[absolute superlative]], [[relative superlative]], [[comparative superlative]]
* [[degrees of comparison]]
* [[superlative]]

===See also===
* [[contrastive]]

===References===
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|comparative}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|comparative}}
* {{R:WordNet 2003|comparative}}

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj-form}} {{g|f}}

# {{feminine of|comparatif|lang=fr}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it}} {{g|f}}

# {{feminine plural of|comparativo|lang=it}}

===Anagrams===
* [[comparivate#Italian|comparivate]]
* [[crepitavamo#Italian|crepitavamo]]

[[Category:Italian adjective forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|comparātīve}}

# {{inflection of|comparātīvus||voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[cy:comparative]]
[[et:comparative]]
[[el:comparative]]
[[es:comparative]]
[[fa:comparative]]
[[fr:comparative]]
[[ko:comparative]]
[[hy:comparative]]
[[io:comparative]]
[[kn:comparative]]
[[lt:comparative]]
[[hu:comparative]]
[[ml:comparative]]
[[my:comparative]]
[[ja:comparative]]
[[pl:comparative]]
[[ru:comparative]]
[[simple:comparative]]
[[fi:comparative]]
[[sv:comparative]]
[[ta:comparative]]
[[te:comparative]]
[[chr:comparative]]
[[tr:comparative]]
[[vi:comparative]]
[[zh:comparative]]