==English==

===Etymology===
As of late 2007, occurring over 100 times on the Web, primarily in blogs.  Introduction into English unknown, early instances include:

*'''1996''' Dennis Monbourquette<ref>[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.1d/browse_frm/thread/faf63b3713fc64ce/381e3181c8484213?lnk=st&q=congratudolences#381e3181c8484213 Usenet newsgroup alt.1d, thread "DemoniK for hire"]</ref>
:Congratudolences, or whatever.

*'''1998''' <ref>[http://www1.umn.edu/usenate/scfa/980430scfa.html April 30, 1998 Minutes of the Senata Faculty Affairs Committee, UMN]</ref>
:Congratulations to Carol Carrier
:* A motion was approved that SCFA make a gesture of official pleasure of Carol Carrier's appointment.
:* "Congratudolences" should be the term that is used.
:* Professor Bales will craft the language that will be presented to Vice President Carrier. 

*'''2004''' Ken Valentine<ref>[http://www.repairmanjack.com/forum/archive/index.php/t-233.html Repairman Jack Message Board > Repairman Jack Main Forum > Happy Birthday FPW!]</ref>
:'''Congratudolences!'''

*'''2005''' Colin Baenziger quoted by columnist Mark Woods<ref>[http://www.jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/101205/woo_20007250.shtml The Florida Times Union, October 12, 2005]</ref>
:When I have friends elected to the city council, I offer them congratudolences.

===Noun===
'''congratudolences''' (always plural in this sense)

# a [[neologism]], conflating [[congratulations]] and [[condolences]], used in a 
humourous context to congratulate someone on an achievement likely to bring that
person more aggravation than pleasure.  For example, winning election to a local
community public office, or upon a man's wedding engagement.

#:''My '''congratudolences''' to you on winning the contract.''

===Interjection===
'''congratudolences'''

# Expressing ironic congratulations.

===References===

[[Category:Neologisms]]