==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Via Old French from {{etyl|la}} {{term|coniunctio|coniūnctiō|joining}} < {{term|coniungere||to join}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-conjunction.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌŋkʃən}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of joining, or condition of being joined.
# {{obsolete}} [[sexual intercourse|Sexual intercourse]].
#* '''1603''', John Florio, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', vol. 1 ch. 29:
#*: Certaine Nations (and amongst others, the Mahometane) abhorre '''Conjunction''' with women great with childe.
# {{grammar}} A word used to join other words or phrases together into sentences. The specific conjunction used shows how the two joined parts are related. ''Example: Bread, butter '''and''' cheese.''
# {{astronomy}} The alignment of two bodies in the [[solar system]] such that they have the same [[longitude]] when seen from Earth.
# {{astrology}} An [[aspect]] in which planets are in close proximity to one another.
# {{context|logic}} The [[proposition]] resulting from the combination of two or more propositions using the [[∧]] (<math>\and</math>) [[operator]].

====Derived terms====
* [[inferior conjunction]]
* [[superior conjunction]]

====Related terms====
* [[conjugate]]

====Translations====

{{trans-top|act of joining or being joined}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съединение|n}},  {{t|bg|свързване}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|結合|tr=git3 hap6|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}, {{tø|yue|連接|tr=lin4 zip3|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}
*: Mandarin: [[结合]], [[結合]] (jié hé), [[连接]],[[連接]] (lián jiē)
* Finnish: [[liittäminen]], [[yhdistäminen]]
* Greek: {{t|el|σύνδεση|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conjunction|xs=Interlingua}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|結合|tr=ketsugō}}, {{t|ja|接合|tr=setsugō}}, {{t|ja|接続|tr=setsuzoku}}, {{t-|ja|連接|tr=rensetsu}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|спој|m|tr=spoj}}, {{t|mk|врска|f|tr=v'rska}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|łączenie|n}}, {{t+|pl|połączenie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conjunção|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|союз|m|tr=sojúz}}, {{t+|ru|связь|f|tr=svjaz’}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conjunción|f}}, {{t+|es|unión|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar: word used to join words or phrases}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حرف عطف|m|tr=Harf `aTf}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|շաղկապ|tr=šaġkap}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|veznik|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съюз|m}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|conjunció|f}}
* [[Chechen]]: {{tø|ce|хуттург}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|連接詞|tr=lin4 zip3 ci4|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}, {{tø|yue|連詞|tr=lin4 ci4|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|連接詞|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|连接词|tr=liánjiēcí|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|連詞|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|连词|tr=liáncí|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|veznik|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|spojka|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|bindeord}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voegwoord|n}}
* Estonian: [[sidesõna]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|konjunktio}}, {{t+|fi|sidesana}}
* French: {{t+|fr|conjonction|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Konjunktion|f}}, {{t+|de|Bindewort|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σύνδεσμος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|kata penghubung|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conjunction|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|congiunzione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|接続詞|tr=setsuzokushi}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|coniunctio|f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|сврзник|m|tr=sv'rznik}}
* Maltese: [[konġugazzjoni]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|konjunksjon|m}}
* [[Novial]]: [[konjunktione]]
* Persian: {{t|fa|حرف ربط|tr=harfe rabt|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|spójnik|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conjunção|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|conjuncţie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|союз|m|tr=sojúz}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|naisgear|m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[везник]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[veznik#Serbian|veznik]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conjunción|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|konjunktion|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[సంయోజకము]] (samyojakamu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|astronomy: alignment of two bodies in the solar system such that they have the same longitude when seen from Earth}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|會合|tr=wui6 hap6|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}
*: Mandarin: [[会合]], [[會合]] (huì hé)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|konjunkce}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|konjunktio}}
* German: {{t+|de|Konjunktion|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σύνοδος|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conjunction|xs=Interlingua}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|会合|tr=kaigō}}, {{t+|ja|合|tr=gō}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|koniunkcja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conjunção|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|конъюнкция|f|tr=konjúnkcija}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|konjunktion|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|logic: proposition resulting from the combination of two or more propositions using the and operator}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съединение|n}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|konjunkce|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|konjunkcio|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|conjonction|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Konjunktion|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σύζευξη|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|conjunction|xs=Interlingua}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|連接|tr=rensetsu}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|конјункција|f|tr=konjúnkcija}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conjunção|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|конъюнкция|f|tr=konjúnkcija}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|konjunktion|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|et}}: [[konjunktsioon]]
* {{ttbc|grc}}: [[σύνδεσμος]] (sýndesmos) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[kata]] [[sambung]], [[kata]] [[hubung|penghubung]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: conjunction
* {{ttbc|la}}: [[coniunctio]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[jungtukas]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[conjuncţie]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[disjunction]]

[[Category:Parts of speech]]

[[ast:conjunction]]
[[cs:conjunction]]
[[de:conjunction]]
[[et:conjunction]]
[[el:conjunction]]
[[es:conjunction]]
[[fr:conjunction]]
[[fy:conjunction]]
[[hr:conjunction]]
[[io:conjunction]]
[[id:conjunction]]
[[it:conjunction]]
[[kn:conjunction]]
[[hu:conjunction]]
[[ml:conjunction]]
[[my:conjunction]]
[[nl:conjunction]]
[[pl:conjunction]]
[[pt:conjunction]]
[[ro:conjunction]]
[[ru:conjunction]]
[[simple:conjunction]]
[[fi:conjunction]]
[[tl:conjunction]]
[[ta:conjunction]]
[[te:conjunction]]
[[tr:conjunction]]
[[vi:conjunction]]
[[zh:conjunction]]