==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-consciousness.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|conscious|ness}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# The state of being [[conscious]] or [[aware]]; [[awareness]].

====Derived terms====
* [[raise someone's consciousness]]

<big>'''CONSCI - PLURAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS'''</big>
As humanity expands toward greater levels of awareness, a term
is needed to express multiple consciousness.  All consciousness
is not exactly in the same spot, frequentially or evolutionary wise.
This applies to consciousness in the unseen realms as well.

Two examples may expand on the understanding of use of CONSCI (con sigh)

The first one being on the earth plane with humans in 3rd Dimensional
bodies.  Say a group comes together, a spiritual meeting, and a moderator
has occasion to reference the "consciousness of the room is..."  What does that mean
when the consciousness of the room is really not quite defined because there
are myriad levels of frequencies present, unseen as well.  Instead a broader, more accurate
statement may be "the consci in this room...".  This acknowledges that there is a coming 
together of multiple consciousness, that even tho there exists Oneness, all consci
are unique with varying qualities.  
 
In the field of Entity Removal in the unseen realms, it is known that most, but not all, entities have a
consciousness and are light-based at their core. Saying to a Client "there are many different negative 
consciousness''es'' attached to you..." and continually having to define it in this way is inconvenient 
and taxing.  Also using the term 'demons or demonics' to describe different negative energies is changing. 
It is much more forward thinking and accurate to use the term unkind consciousness.  There are many different
groups of unkind consciousness''es'', so having the convenience of using the statement "there are many unkind consci
with you" contributes to the expediency of the entire endeavor.

Aniel Lia Love, September 15, 2010

====Translations====
{{trans-top|awareness}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съзнание|n}},  {{t|bg|съзнателност|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vědomí|n}},  {{t-|cs|uvědomění|n}}
* Danish: [[bevidsthed]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bewustzijn|n}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|teadvus}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tajunta}}, {{t-|fi|taju}}
* French: {{t+|fr|conscience|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bewusstsein|n}}
* Hebrew: [[מודעות]] (muda'ut) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|tudatosság}}, {{t+|hu|tudat}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|comhfhios|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|conoscenza|f}}, {{t+|it|coscienza|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|意識|tr=ishiki}}, {{t-|ja|人心地|tr=hitogokochi}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|의식|tr=uisik|sc=Hang}},  {{t|ko|자각|tr=jagak|sc=Hang}}
* Latvian: [[samaņa]]  {{n}}
* Polish: [[przytomność]] {{f}}, [[świadomość]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|conştiinţă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сознание|n|tr=soznánije}}
* Slovak: [[vedomie]]  {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conciencia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|medvetande|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bilinç}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[being-for-itself]]

[[et:consciousness]]
[[el:consciousness]]
[[es:consciousness]]
[[fr:consciousness]]
[[ko:consciousness]]
[[hy:consciousness]]
[[io:consciousness]]
[[kn:consciousness]]
[[kk:consciousness]]
[[sw:consciousness]]
[[lt:consciousness]]
[[hu:consciousness]]
[[ml:consciousness]]
[[nl:consciousness]]
[[pl:consciousness]]
[[ru:consciousness]]
[[fi:consciousness]]
[[sv:consciousness]]
[[ta:consciousness]]
[[te:consciousness]]
[[vi:consciousness]]
[[zh:consciousness]]