==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|contraction|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term/t|la|contractiō}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈkɒn.tɹæk.ʃən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"kQn.tr{k.S@n/}} {{qualifier|stressed}}; {{IPA|/kənˈtræk.ʃən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/k@n"tr{k.S@n/}} {{qualifier|unstressed}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/kənˈtɹæk.ʃən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/k@n"tr{k.S@n/}}
* {{rhymes|ækʃən}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[reversible]] [[reduction]] in size.
# {{context|economics|lang=en}} A period of economic decline or [[negative]] [[growth]].
#: ''The country's economic '''contraction''' was caused by high oil prices.''
# {{context|biology|lang=en}} A [[shorten]]ing of a [[muscle]] when it is used.
# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} A strong and often painful shortening of the [[uterine]] muscles prior to or during childbirth.
# {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} A process whereby one or more sounds of a [[free]] [[morpheme]] (a [[word]]) are lost or reduced, such that it becomes a [[bound]] morpheme (a [[clitic]]) that attaches phonologically to an adjacent word.
#: ''In English ''didn't'', ''that's'', and ''wanna'', the endings ''-n't'', ''-'s'', and ''-a'' arose by '''contraction'''.''
# {{context|English orthography|lang=en}} A word with omitted letters replaced by an [[apostrophe]], usually resulting from the above process.
#: ''"Don't" is a '''contraction''' of "do not."''
# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} [[contract|Contracting]] a disease.
#: ''The '''contraction''' of AIDS from toilet seats is extremely rare.''
# {{context|phonetics|lang=en}} [[syncope|Syncope]], the loss of sounds from within a word.
# The [[acquisition]] of something, generally negative.
#: ''Our '''contraction''' of debt in this quarter has reduced our ability to attract investors.''
# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} A distinct stage of [[wound]] healing, wherein the wound edges are gradually pulled together.

====Antonyms====
* [[expansion]]
* [[dilatation]]

====Derived terms====
* [[contractional]]
* [[contractionary]]
* [[hypercontraction]]
* [[supercontraction]]

====Related terms====
* [[contract]]
* [[contractation]]
* [[contractive]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|reduction in size or activity}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|verkleining}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|свиване|n}},  {{t+|bg|скъсяване|n}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|contracció|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|收縮|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|收缩|tr=shōusuō|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taantuma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contraction|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Verkleinerung}}, {{t+|de|Kontraktion}}
* Hebrew: [[התכווצות]] (hitkavtzut) {{f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|収縮|tr=しゅうしゅく, shūshuku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[단축]] (danchuk)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|kontraksjon}}, {{t|no|forminskning}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сокращение|n|tr=sokraščénije}}, {{t+|ru|сжатие|n|tr=sžátije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|minskning}}, {{t+|sv|kontraktion}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|shortening of a muscle when it is used}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|свиване|n}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|contracció|f}}
* Finnish: [[supistus]], [[lihassupistus]]
* German: [[Kontraktion]] {{f}}, [[Zusammenziehen]] {{n}}
* Hebrew: [[התכווצות]] (hitkavtzut) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|攣縮|tr=れんしゅく, renshuku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[위축]] (wichuk)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|kontraksjon}}, {{t|no|sammentrekning}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сокращение|n|tr=sokraščénije}}, {{t+|ru|сжатие|n|tr=sžátije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kontraktion}}, {{t|sv|sammandragning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|painful shortening of the uterine muscles}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|контракция|f}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|contracció|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|陣痛|tr=じんつう, jintsū|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|sammentrekning}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сокращение|n|tr=sokraščénije}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|контракција|f|tr=kontrakcija|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|трудови|p|tr=trudovi|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|sammandragning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|shortened word or phrase}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съкращение|n}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|contracció|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kontraktion|f}}
* Korean: [[단축어]] (danchugeo)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|sammentrekning}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|kontrakcja|f}}, {{t|pl|forma ściąnięta}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сокращение|n|tr=sokraščénije}}, {{t+|ru|стяжение|n|tr=stjažénije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|contracción|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|sammandragning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[omission]]
* [[:Category:English contractions]]
* {{pedialite|dab=contraction}}

[[ar:contraction]]
[[ast:contraction]]
[[cs:contraction]]
[[et:contraction]]
[[el:contraction]]
[[fa:contraction]]
[[fr:contraction]]
[[ko:contraction]]
[[io:contraction]]
[[id:contraction]]
[[it:contraction]]
[[kn:contraction]]
[[hu:contraction]]
[[mg:contraction]]
[[ml:contraction]]
[[my:contraction]]
[[ja:contraction]]
[[uz:contraction]]
[[pl:contraction]]
[[ru:contraction]]
[[sa:contraction]]
[[simple:contraction]]
[[fi:contraction]]
[[sv:contraction]]
[[ta:contraction]]
[[te:contraction]]
[[chr:contraction]]
[[tr:contraction]]
[[vi:contraction]]
[[zh:contraction]]