==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|cooey}}
* {{l|en|coo-ee}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xdk|en}} ''[[guuu-wi]]'' adopted into English by white settlers in Australia from 1790.<ref>[[w:R. M. W. Dixon|R. M. W. Dixon]], Australian Aboriginal Words'', Oxford University Press, 1990, ISBN 0-19-553099-3, page 208.</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ko͞o'ē}}, {{IPA|/ˈkuːiː/|lang=en}}
*: In making the call, the first syllable may be quite elongated; the second is relatively short.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# {{lb|en|Australia|informal|onomatopoeia}} A long, loud call used to attract attention when at a distance, mainly done in the Australian bush.
#* '''2002''', Andrew Parkin, ''A Thing Apart'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=uyb_QsyLkekC&pg=PA195&dq=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=TFmqTsGBMpD2mAXz5eGCDw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEEQ6AEwBDhu#v=onepage&q=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 195],
#*: I call out, “Coo-ee” with long Coo and short ee like whip-bird call. Everybody in my mob know my '''cooee'''. Any one of my mob hear that, they give me '''cooee''' back.
#*: I listen.
#*: No '''cooee''' come back.
#* '''2006''', Saskia Beudel, ''Walking: West MacDonnell Ranges 2002'', in Drusilla Modjeska, ''The Best Australian Essays 2006'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=6UBV5f0LThoC&pg=PA309&dq=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=bFeqTvyPMMmImQWC7KnQDw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEAQ6AEwBDhk#v=onepage&q=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 309],
#*: Just as I was preparing to write in my exercise book, I heard a '''cooee'''. '''Cooees''' were not part of the code.
# {{lb|en|Australia|informal|with "within"|also|_|figuratively}} A short distance; [[hailing distance]].
#* '''1996''', [[w:australian House of Representatives|australian House of Representatives]], ''Parliamentary Debates Australia'', Volume 207, [http://books.google.com/books?id=vMhDAQAAIAAJ&q=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22+-intitle:%22%22&dq=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=f2CqTqqzEoz3mAXknMTbDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAjiMAQ page 1469],
#*: That is not within '''cooee''' of 10 per cent; it is much closer to six per cent.
#* '''1999''', Tony Shillitoe, ''Joy Ride'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=oWJD5EPe6QoC&pg=PA136&dq=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=5VGqTpmFDK_ImAX3z5DvDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFcQ6AEwCTg8#v=onepage&q=%22cooee%7Ccooees%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 136],
#*: We were carless, in the dark, and no one to help within '''cooee'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a call as a signal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hū}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|d}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|Australia|informal}} To make such a call.
#* '''2001''', Robert Holden, Nicholas Holden, ''Bunyips: Australia's Folklore of Fear'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=UnKPCZT0x6kC&pg=PA65&dq=%22cooeeing%7Ccooeed%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=WZ-qTs_gL9HUmAWbo_HHDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false page 65],
#*: ‘Look out for snakes,’ said Long Charlie, flourishing his lantern. ‘And don′t all of us be '''coo-eeing''' all the time, or when the little chap sings out we shan't be able to hear him.’
#* '''2003''', Les Hughes, ''A Young Australian Pioneer: Henry Mundy'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=9woJ84V1PpIC&pg=PA225&dq=%22cooeeing%7Ccooeed%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=WZ-qTs_gL9HUmAWbo_HHDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=%22cooeeing%7Ccooeed%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 225],
#*: Slipping out of the tail of the dray, I '''cooeed''' as loud as I could which was answered.
#* '''2006''', Saskia Beudel, ''Walking: West MacDonnell Ranges 2002'', in Drusilla Modjeska, ''The Best Australian Essays 2006'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=6UBV5f0LThoC&pg=PA310&dq=%22cooeeing%7Ccooeed%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=WZ-qTs_gL9HUmAWbo_HHDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=%22cooeeing%7Ccooeed%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 310],
#*: I '''cooeed''' back. Another cooee came in what seemed to be a reply. I '''cooeed''' again.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to call out as a signal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hū}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{lb|en|informal|chiefly|Australia|UK}} {{non-gloss definition|Used to attract someone's attention.}}
#: '''''Cooee!''' I'm over here!''
#* '''1894''', ''Temple Bar'', Volume 183, [http://books.google.com/books?id=AQMbAAAAYAAJ&q=%22cooee%22+-intitle:%22%22&dq=%22cooee%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=bZyqTva2KqjkmAWensXuDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBDiWAQ page 587],
#*: Then, raising her hands to her lips she utters a long, loud, piercing " '''Cooee''' ! "
#*: " '''Coo — ee''' ! " comes back over the black waters.
#* '''2001''', June E. Barker, ''First Platypus, Gaygar—The Little Mother Duck'', in Helen F. McKay (editor), Pauline E. McLeod, Francis Firebrace Jones, June E. Barker, ''Gadi Mirrabooka: Australian Aboriginal Tales from the Dreaming'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=ZhooWCBA7HAC&pg=PA58&dq=%22cooee%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=xJKqTsqSIIPSmAWwvo36Dg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCsQ6AEwADg8#v=onepage&q=%22cooee%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 58],
#*: Gaygar could hear her people cooee out to her, "'''COOEE''', GAYGAR! '''COOEE''', GAYGAR!" they would cry.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|ahoy}}! {{qualifier|nautical}}
* {{l|en|hey}}!
* {{l|en|oi}}! {{qualifier|impolite}}
* {{l|en|yoohoo}}!

===References===
<references/>

[[et:cooee]]
[[ru:cooee]]
[[zh:cooee]]