==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*(''all non-standard slang''): [[coo]], [[kewl]], [[kool]]

====Etymology====
Old English ''[[cōl]]'', ''[[cōlian]]''

===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: ko͞ol
*[[IPA]]: /kuːl/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>ku:l</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-cool.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːl|-uːl]]

=====The Definition of Cool=====
$$$The Way It WAs Meant To Be$$$
================================

When you think of cool what comes to your mind? Do you picture a frosty winter morning? Snow? A Drink? Or do you think about Kolton, The perfect description of the word cool. Hes sexy, smart, and good natured to boot. His mere presence brightens any atmosphere with his easy humour, good smile and definate amazingness.

Other words used to describe him are snipe, clutch, awesome, and champion.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To lose heat, to get colder.
#:''I like to let my tea '''cool''' before drinking it so I don't burn by tongue.''
# {{cattag|idiom|figurative}} To become less [[amicable]].
#: ''Relations '''cooled''' between the USA and the USSR after 1980.''

====Translations====
'''to lose heat, to get colder'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[esfriar]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[остывать]]/[[остыть]] (ostyvát’/ostýt'), [[охлаждаться]]/[[охладиться]] (oχlaždát's'a/oχladít's'a)
*Swedish: [[svalna]]
{{bottom}}
{{top|to become less amiable}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[svalna]]
{{bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[auskühlen]], [[abkühlen]], [[kühlen]]


[[Category:Positive words]]

[[ar:cool]]
[[de:cool]]
[[es:cool]]
[[fa:cool]]
[[fr:cool]]
[[ko:cool]]
[[io:cool]]
[[it:cool]]
[[hu:cool]]
[[nl:cool]]
[[ja:cool]]
[[pt:cool]]
[[ru:cool]]
[[simple:cool]]
[[fi:cool]]
[[vi:cool]]
[[zh:cool]]