{{also|COP|çöp}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/kɒp/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɒp}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|/kɑp/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɑp}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la}} and {{etyl|fro}}  {{term|capere||to capture}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cop|p|ing}}

# {{informal}} To [[capture]], get hold of, [[take]].
#* '''2005,''' Martin Torgoff, ''Can't Find My Way Home'', Simon &amp; Schuster, page 10,
#*: Heroin appeared on the streets of our town for the first time, and Innie watched helplessly as his sixteen-year-old brother began taking the train to Harlem to '''cop''' smack.

=====Translations=====
* Bulgarian: [[хващам]], [[пипвам]], [[арестувам]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[cop a feel]]
* [[cop off]]
* [[cop on]]
* [[cop out]], [[cop-out]]

===Etymology 2===
Short for {{term|copper||police officer}}, itself from {{term|cop||one who cops}} above, i.e. a criminal.
Sometimes explained as deriving from copper buttons or badges of early [[NYPD]] or uniforms or on those worn by the first [[London]] Police Force of the 1820s, though this is often stated to be a [[folk etymology]]. 'Cop' has long existed as a verb meaning "to take or seize"; the first example of 'cop' taking the meaning 'to arrest' appeared in 1844, and the word swiftly moved from simply meaning 'to arrest into police custody' to encompass the individual doing the detaining. (Reference: http://www.snopes.com/language/acronyms/cop.asp Snopes Article )

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{slang|law enforcement}} A [[police officer]].

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:police officer]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|police officer}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|полицай|m}},  {{t|bg|ченге|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pollari}},  {{t+|fi|kyttä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flic|m}}, {{t+|fr|keuf|m}},  {{t|fr|poulet|m}} (''chicken'')
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|שוטר|m|tr=shotér}},  {{t|he|שוטרת|f|tr=shotéret}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|zsaru}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|purk|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|gliniarz|m}}, {{t+|pl|glina|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|коп|m|tr=kop}} {{qualifier|American}}, {{t+|ru|мент|m|tr=ment}} {{qualifier|offensive}}, {{t+|ru|мусор|m|tr=músor}} {{qualifier|more offensive}},   {{t|ru|фараон|m|tr=faraón|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|slang, dated}},  {{t|ru|лягавый|m|tr=ljagávyj|sc=Cyrl}},  {{t|ru|легавый|tr=legávyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: [[poliš]] {{m}}, [[hekáč]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tombo|m}}, {{t+|es|paco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|snut}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|lang=ang|cop}}, {{term|copp}}, from Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch {{term|kop}}, German {{term|Kopf}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|crafts}} The ball of [[thread]] wound on to the spindle in a spinning machine.
# {{obsolete}} The [[top]], [[summit]], especially of a hill.
# {{obsolete}} The [[head]].

===Etymology 4===
{{rfe|is this the same as one of the above?}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|copp|ed}}

# {{intransitive}} {{slang}} to [[admit]], especially to a crime.
#: ''I already '''copped''' to the murder. What else do you want from me?''
# {{transitive}} to receive, especially [[blame]] or [[punishment]] for a particular instance of [[wrongdoing]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|cop}}
* [[CPO#English|CPO]]
* [[OPC#English|OPC]]
* [[POC#English|POC]]


----

==Catalan==

===Noun===
'''cop'''

# [[hit]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Czech==

===Etymology===
German [[Zopf]]

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[braid]]

====Derived terms====
* [[copánek]] {{m}}
* [[copatý]] {{m}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
A shortened form of [[copain]].

===Pronunciation===
* [kɔp]

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{informal|lang=fr}} A [[friend]], a [[pal]].

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun-m}}

# {{alternative spelling of|[[colp#Old French|colp]]|lang=fro}}

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
{{infl|sk|noun|g=m|plural|copy}}

# [[braid]]

====Declension====
*declension pattern {{sk-dub}}

[[ca:cop]]
[[de:cop]]
[[el:cop]]
[[es:cop]]
[[fr:cop]]
[[ko:cop]]
[[sw:cop]]
[[hu:cop]]
[[nl:cop]]
[[ja:cop]]
[[pl:cop]]
[[ru:cop]]
[[simple:cop]]
[[fi:cop]]
[[ta:cop]]
[[te:cop]]
[[tr:cop]]
[[vi:cop]]
[[vo:cop]]
[[zh:cop]]