==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=corrupt}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} ''corrupten'', from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|corropt}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|corruptus}}, past participle of {{m|la|corrumpo|corrumpō, corrumpere|to destroy, ruin, injure, spoil, corrupt, bribe}}, from {{m|la|com-||together}} + {{m|la|rumpere||to break in pieces}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-corrupt.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʌpt|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# In a [[depraved]] state; [[debased]]; [[perverted]]; morally [[degenerate]]; weak in [[morals]].
#: ''The government here is '''corrupt''', so we'll emigrate to escape them.''
#* Shakespeare
#*: At what ease / Might '''corrupt''' minds procure knaves as '''corrupt''' / To swear against you.
# Abounding in [[error]]s; not [[genuine]] or [[correct]]; in an [[invalid]] state.
#: ''The text of the manuscript is '''corrupt'''.''
#: ''It turned out that the program was '''corrupt''' - that's why it wouldn't open.''
# In a [[putrid]] state; [[spoiled]]; [[tainted]]; [[vitiated]]; [[unsound]].
#* Knolles
#*: Who with such '''corrupt''' and pestilent bread would feed them.

====Usage notes====
* Nouns to which "corrupt" is often applied: practice, state, country, nation, regime, city, government, person, man, politician, leader, mayor, judge, member, minister, file, database, document, woman.

====Quotations====
* {{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Genesis 6:11
*: The earth also was '''corrupt''' before God, and the earth was filled with violence.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|corrupted}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in a depraved state}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مرتش، فاسد }}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مرتش، فاسد }}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|покварен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|corrupte}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkažený}}, {{t|cs|zkorumpovaný}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|corrupt}}, {{t+|nl|verdorven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turmeltunut}}, {{t|fi|korruptoitunut}}
* French: {{t+|fr|corrompu}}, {{t+|fr|dévoyé}}
* German: {{t+|de|korrupt}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διεφθαρμένος|m}}
* Hebrew: [[מושחת]] (mushkhat) {{g|m}}; [[מושחתת]] (mushkhetet) {{g|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corrotto|m}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ពុករលួយ|tr=puk rɔluəy|sc=Khmr}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|skorumpowany|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|corrupto}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|corupt|m}}, {{t|ro|coruptă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|коррумпи́рованный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|olc}}, {{t|gd|meallta}}, {{t|gd|breun}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corrupto}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|paramidi}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yoz}}, {{t|tr|yozlaşmış}}, {{t+|tr|bozulmuş}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tham nhũng}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|with lots of errors in it}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|развален}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|corrupte}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|porušený}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|korruptoitunut}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corrupto}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|paramidi}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bozuk}}, {{t+|tr|bozulmuş}}, {{t+|tr|hatalı}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To make [[#Adjective|corrupt]]; to change from good to bad; to draw away from the right path; to [[deprave]]; to [[pervert]].
#: ''Don't you dare '''corrupt''' my son with those [[disgusting]] pictures!''
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Genesis 6:12
#*: And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had '''corrupted''' his way upon the earth.
# {{label|en|intransitive}} To become [[putrid]] or tainted; to [[putrefy]]; to [[rot]].
#: {{rfquotek|Francis Bacon}}
#* {{quote-book|author=George Smith|title=Institutiones Chirurgicæ: or, Principles of Surgery, [...] To which is Annexed, a Chirurgical Dispensatory, [...]|location=London|publisher=Printed [by [[w:William Bowyer (printer)|William Bowyer]]] for Henry Lintot, at the Cross-Keys against [[w:St Dunstan-in-the-West|St. Dunstan's Church]] in [[w:Fleet Street|Fleetstreet]]|year=1732|page=254|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=axFeAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA254|oclc=745299684|passage={{...}} ''[[w:Lanfranc of Milan|Lanfrank]]'' takes Notice of ''Tract.'' 3. ''Doct.'' 3. ''cap.'' 18. ſaying, "I have ſeen many who being full of Humours, have made an Iſſue under the Knee, before due Purgation had been premis'd; whence, by reaſon of the too great Defluxion of Humours, the Legs tumified, ſo that the cauterized Place '''corrupted''', and a Cancer (or rather [[cacoethic]] Ulcer) was thereby made, with which great Difficulty was cur'd."}}
# To debase or render impure by alterations or innovations; to falsify.
#: ''to '''corrupt''' language, or a holy text''
# To waste, spoil, or consume; to make worthless.
#* Bible, Matthew vi. 19
#*: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth '''corrupt'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to change from good to bad}}
* Arabic: {{t-needed|ar}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|развалям}}, {{t+|bg|развращавам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|corrompre}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkazit}}, {{t|cs|narušit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verderven}}, {{t+|nl|verworden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turmella}}, {{t|fi|korruptoida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|corrompre}}
* German: {{t+|de|verderben}}, {{t+|de|korrumpieren}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|השחית|tr=hishkhít}}
* Italian: {{t|it|corrompere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ពុករលួយ|tr=puk rɔluəy|sc=Khmr}}
* Latin: {{t|la|corrumpo}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatautauhea}}, {{t|mi|whakatautauwhea}}
* Mirandese: {{t-needed|mwl}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|corromper}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|corupe}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corromper}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|paramidi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fördärva}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bozmak}}, {{t+|tr|bozulmak}}, {{t+|tr|yozlaşmak}}, {{t+|tr|yozlaştırmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|corruptible}}
* {{l|en|corruption}}
* {{l|en|incorruptible}}

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

----

==Middle French==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|la|corruptus|lang=frm}}.

===Adjective===
{{frm-adj}}

# [[#English|corrupt]] (impure; not in its original form)

[[ca:corrupt]]
[[cy:corrupt]]
[[de:corrupt]]
[[et:corrupt]]
[[el:corrupt]]
[[es:corrupt]]
[[fr:corrupt]]
[[ko:corrupt]]
[[hy:corrupt]]
[[io:corrupt]]
[[id:corrupt]]
[[it:corrupt]]
[[kn:corrupt]]
[[ku:corrupt]]
[[li:corrupt]]
[[hu:corrupt]]
[[mg:corrupt]]
[[ml:corrupt]]
[[my:corrupt]]
[[nl:corrupt]]
[[ja:corrupt]]
[[uz:corrupt]]
[[pl:corrupt]]
[[ro:corrupt]]
[[ru:corrupt]]
[[sa:corrupt]]
[[simple:corrupt]]
[[fi:corrupt]]
[[ta:corrupt]]
[[te:corrupt]]
[[chr:corrupt]]
[[vi:corrupt]]
[[zh:corrupt]]