{{slim-wikipedia|dab=counterfeit}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|countrefait|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|contrefait|lang=fro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈkaʊn.tɚˌfɪt/}}
* {{rhymes|ɪt}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[false|False]], especially of money; intended to deceive or carry appearance of being [[genuine]].
#: ''This '''counterfeit''' watch looks like the real thing, but it broke a week after I bought it.''
# [[inauthentic|Inauthentic]]
# Assuming the appearance of something; deceitful; hypocritical.
#* Shakespeare
#*: an arrant '''counterfeit''' rascal

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:fake]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|intended to deceive or carry appearance of being genuine}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|фалшив}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|假冒|tr=jiǎmào|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|namaak}}, {{t+|nl|nep}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väärennetty}}, {{t+|fi|väärä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrefait}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ყალბი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t|de|gefälscht}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מזויף|tr=mezuyáf}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|खोटा|tr=khōṭā|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|जाली|tr=jālī|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hamis}}, {{t|hu|hamisított}}
* {{trreq|id}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|contraffazione}}, {{t+|it|falso}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ក្លែងក្លាយ|tr=klaeng klaay|sc=Khmr}}
* {{trreq|ms}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|جعلی|tr=ja'lī|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|sfałszowany|m}}, {{t|pl|podrobiony|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|falso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поддельный|tr=podd'él'nyj}}, {{t+|ru|фальшивый|tr=fal'šívyj}}, {{t+|ru|контрафактный|tr=kontrafáktnyj}}
* Sanskrit: {{t|sa|प्रातिरूपिक|tr=prātirūpika|sc=Deva}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|contrahecho}} {{t+|es|falsificado}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bandia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förfalskad}}
* {{trreq|th}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unauthentic}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|подправен}}, {{t+|bg|фалшив}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vervalst}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väärennetty}}, {{t|fi|jäljitelty}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrefait}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ყალბი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|falsch}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|contraffazione}}, {{t+|it|falso}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|falso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поддельный|tr=podd'él'nyj}}, {{t+|ru|фальшивый|tr=fal'šívyj}}, {{t+|ru|контрафактный|tr=kontrafáktnyj}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|conterfait}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|лажан|m|tr=lažan|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|неаутентичан|m|tr=neautentičan|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|contrahecho}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bandia}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A non-genuine article; a [[fake]].
#*'''c.1597''' William Shakespeare, Henry IV part I, Act II, scene 4:
#*: Never call a true piece of gold a '''counterfeit'''.
#* Macaulay
#*: Some of these '''counterfeits''' are fabricated with such exquisite taste and skill, that it is the achievement of criticism to distinguish them from originals.
# One who counterfeits; a [[counterfeiter]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} That which resembles another thing; a likeness; a portrait; a counterpart.
#* William Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens'' 
#*: Thou drawest a '''counterfeit''' / Best in all Athens.
#* '''1590'''Edmund Spenser, ''Faerie Queene'' Book III, canto VIII:
#*: Even Nature's self envied the same, / And grudged to see the '''counterfeit''' should shame / The thing itself.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} An [[impostor]]; a [[cheat]].
#* '''c.1597''' William Shakespeare, Henry IV part I, Act V, scene 4
#*: I fear thou art another '''counterfeit'''; / And yet, in faith, thou bear'st thee like a king.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fake}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|фалшификация|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|贗品|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|赝品|tr=yànpǐn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vervalsing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärennös}}, {{t|fi|jäljitelmä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrefaçon}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fälschung|f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|नक़ल|f|tr=naqal|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hamisítvány}}
* {{trreq|id}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|contraffazione|f}}, {{t+|it|falso|m}}, {{t+|it|imitazione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|偽物|tr=にせもの, nisemono|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|フェイク|tr=feiku|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|របស់ក្លែង|tr=rɔbɑh klaeng|sc=Khmr}}
* {{trreq|ms}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|falsyfikat|m}}, {{t+|pl|podróbka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|contrafação|f}}, {{t+|pt|falsificação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подделка|f|tr=poddélka}}, {{t+|ru|фальшивка|f|tr=fal'šívka}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|contrahechura|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bandia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förfalskning|c}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ของปลอม|sc=Thai}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-see|counterfeiter}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To falsely produce what appears to be official or valid; to produce a forged copy of.
#: ''to '''counterfeit''' the signature of another, coins, notes, etc.''
# {{context|transitive|obsolete|lang=en}} To produce a faithful copy of.
#* {{quote-book|title=Engraving the savage: the New World and techniques of civilization‎|page=xii|author=Michael Gaudio|year=2008|passage=The title page of White's original album includes a descriptive title page that identifies the contents as “the pictures of sondry things collected and '''counterfeited''' according to the truth,"}}
# {{context|transitive|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[feign]]; to [[mimic]].
#: ''to '''counterfeit''' the voice of another person''
#* Oliver Goldsmith, ''The Village Schoolmaster'' 
#*: Full well they laughed with '''counterfeited''' glee / At all his jokes, for many a joke had he.
# {{context|transitive|poker|usually "be counterfeited"|lang=en}} Of a [[turn]] or [[river]] card, to [[invalidate]] a player's hand by making a better hand on the board.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To produce something that appears to be official or valid}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|namaak}}, {{t|af|vervals}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|подправям}}, {{t+|bg|фалшифицирам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vervalsen}}, {{t+|nl|namaken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärentää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrefaire}}
* German: {{t+|de|fälschen}}
* Italian: {{t|it|contraffare}}, {{t+|it|falsificare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|fałszować}}, {{t|pl|podrabiać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|contrafazer}}, {{t+|pt|falsificar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подделывать|impf|tr=podd'élyvat'}}, {{t+|ru|подделать|pf|tr=podd'élat'}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|falsificar}}, {{t|es|contrahacer}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bandia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förfalska}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[contrafăcut]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English words not following the I before E except after C rule]]
[[Category:Entries needing topical attention|topic=poker|needs more clarity]]
[[Category:en:Copyright]]
[[Category:en:Crime]]

[[de:counterfeit]]
[[et:counterfeit]]
[[el:counterfeit]]
[[eo:counterfeit]]
[[fr:counterfeit]]
[[ko:counterfeit]]
[[io:counterfeit]]
[[it:counterfeit]]
[[kk:counterfeit]]
[[sw:counterfeit]]
[[hu:counterfeit]]
[[mg:counterfeit]]
[[ml:counterfeit]]
[[my:counterfeit]]
[[nl:counterfeit]]
[[km:counterfeit]]
[[pl:counterfeit]]
[[ru:counterfeit]]
[[simple:counterfeit]]
[[fi:counterfeit]]
[[sv:counterfeit]]
[[tl:counterfeit]]
[[ta:counterfeit]]
[[te:counterfeit]]
[[chr:counterfeit]]
[[vi:counterfeit]]
[[zh:counterfeit]]