==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=cover}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|coveren||lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|covrir|covrir, cueuvrir|lang=fro}} (Modern {{etyl|fr|-}} ''[[couvrir]]'') from {{etyl|LL.}} ''[[coperire]]'' from {{etyl|la}} {{term|cooperire||to cover completely|lang=la}}, from {{term|co-||lang=la}}, intensive prefix, + ''[[operire]]'' "to close, cover". Displaced native {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|thecchen||lang=enm}} and {{term|bithecchen|bethecchen|to cover|lang=enm}} (from {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|þeccan||lang=ang}}, {{term|beþeccan||to cover|lang=ang}}), {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|helen|helen, (over)helen, (for)helen|to cover, conceal|lang=enm}} (from {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|helan||to conceal, cover, hide|lang=ang}}), {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|wreon|wrien, (be)wreon|to cover|lang=enm}} (from {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|wreon|(be)wrēon|to cover|lang=ang}}), {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|hodren|hodren, hothren|to cover up|lang=enm}} (from {{etyl|nds|-}} ''[[hudren#Low German|hudren]]'' "to cover up").

According to the [[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]], the original sense of the verb and noun '''[[#English|cover]]''' was ''hide from view'' as in its [[cognate]] '''[[covert]]'''. Except in the limited sense of ''cover again'', the word '''[[recover]]''' is unrelated and is cognate with '''[[recuperate]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-cover.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌvə(ɹ)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[lid]].
# A hiding from [[view]].
# A front and back of a [[book]] or [[magazine]].
# A top [[sheet]] of a [[bed]].
# A [[cover charge]].
#: ''There's a $15 '''cover''' tonight.''
# A setting at a restaurant table.
#: ''We need to set another '''cover''' for the Smith party.''
# {{music}} A [[rerecording]] of a previously recorded song; a [[cover version]]; a [[cover song]].
# {{cricket}} A [[fielding]] [[position]] on the [[off]] side, between [[point]] and [[mid off]], about 30° [[forward]] of [[square]]; a [[fielder]] in this position.
# {{topology}} A set (more often known as a ''[[family]]'') of sets, whose union contains the given set.
#: ''The open intervals are a '''cover''' for the real numbers.''
# {{philately}} An [[envelope]] complete with [[stamp]]s and [[postmark]]s etc.
# {{military}} A [[solid]] [[object]], including [[terrain]], that provides [[protection]] from [[enemy]] fire.
# {{legal}} In [[commercial law]], a buyer’s [[purchase]] on the open market of [[goods]] similar or identical to the goods contracted for after a seller has [[breach]]ed a [[contract]] of sale by failure to deliver the goods contracted for.
# {{context|insurance}} An insurance contract; [[coverage]] by an insurance contract.
# {{context|espionage}} A [[persona]] maintained by a spy or undercover operative, [[cover story]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''cover''}}
* [[cover board]]
* [[cover charge]]
* [[cover letter]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[cover story]]
* [[cover version]]
* [[take cover]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[tonneau cover]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|lid}}
* Afrikaans: [[dekking]]
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|kapak|m}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|غطاء|f|alt=غِطَاء}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կափարիչ|tr=kap’arič}}, {{t-|hy|խուփ|tr=xup’}}
*: Old Armenian: {{tø|xcl|կափարիչ|tr=kapʿaričʿ|sc=Armn}}, {{tø|xcl|խուփն|tr=xupʿn|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|капак|m|tr=kapak}}, {{t+|bg|похлупак|m|tr=poxlupak}}
* Catalan: [[tapa]] {{f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|víko}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|deksel|n}}, {{t+|nl|kap}}
* Esperanto: [[tegilo]], [[fermoplato]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kansi}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ხუფი|tr=xup’i|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Deckel|m}}, {{t+|de|Abdeckung|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fedő}}, {{t+|hu|fedél}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|clúdach|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coperto|m}}, {{t-|it|coperchio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[سهرقاپ]]}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|vāks|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|dangtis|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|پوشش}}
* Polish: [[przykrycie]] {{n}}, [[wieko]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tampa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|крышка|f|tr=krýška}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|поклопац|m|alt=по̀клопац}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|poklopac|m|alt=pòklopac}}
* Sinhalese: {{t+|si|ආවරණය|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pokrov|m}}, {{t+|sl|pokrovka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tapa|m}}, {{t+|es|cubierta|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lock|n}}, {{t+|sv|skydd|n}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|మూత}} (mootha)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kapak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hiding}}
* Afrikaans: [[skuiling]]
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|укритие|n|tr=ukritie}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dekking}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suoja}}, {{t+|fi|piilo}}
* German: {{t-|de|Deckung|f}}, {{t+|de|Versteck|n}}
* Hebrew: [[כיסוי]] (kisui) {{m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|copertura|f}}, {{t+|it|nascondiglio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|رو پوشانی|tr=ru pušāni|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: [[przykrycie]] {{n}}, [[przykrywka]] {{f}}, [[ukrycie]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esconderijo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|укрытие|n|tr=ukrýtije}}
* Slovene: [[kritje]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|escondrijo|m}}, {{t+|es|guarida|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gömma|c}}, {{t+|sv|gömställe|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|front and back of a book or a magazine}}
* Afrikaans: [[voorblad]]; [[agterblad]]
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|շապիկ|tr=šapik}}, {{t-|hy|կազմ|tr=kazm}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|подвързия|f|tr=podvărzija}}
* Dutch: [[omslag]], [[kaft]] {{m|n}} {{qualifier|book}}, {{t+|nl|cover}} {{qualifier|magazine}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kovrilo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kansi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couverture|f}}
* German: [[Einband]] {{m}} {{qualifier|book}}, [[Umschlag]] {{m}} {{qualifier|magazine}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|כריכה|f|tr=krikha}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|borító}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|copertina|f}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|vāks|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|viršelis|m}}
* Polish: [[okładka]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|capa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обложка|f|tr=oblóžka}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|còmhdach|m}}
* Slovene: [[platnica]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tapa|f}}, {{t+|es|cubierta|f}}, {{t+|es|portada|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|omslag|n}}, {{t+|sv|pärm|c}}, {{t+|sv|framsida|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|top sheet}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծածկոց|tr=çaçkoc’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|корица|f|tr=kopica}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sprei}}
* Finnish: [[peite]], [[päiväpeitto]]
* French: {{t+|fr|couverture|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Decke|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coperta|f}}, {{t+|it|coperta}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|apklājs}}, {{t-|lv|apsegs}}, {{t-|lv|sega}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|apklotas|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[kapa]] {{f}}, [[narzuta]] {{f}}, [[pościel]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cobertor|m}}, {{t+|pt|coberta|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|покрывало|n|tr=pokryválo}}
* Sardinian: [[manta]] {{f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|còmhdach|m}}
* Spanish: [[sábana]] {{f}}, [[cobertor]] {{m}}, [[colcha]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|påslakan|n}}
* Telugu: [[దుప్పటి]] (duppati)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cover charge}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|куверт|m|tr=kuvert}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|entree}}, {{t+|nl|inkom}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pääsymaksu}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coperto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[napiwek]] [[wliczony]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[taxa]] [[inclusa]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|inträde|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|setting at a restaurant table}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|прибори|p|tr=pribori}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|příbor (stolní)}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kattaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couvert|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gedeck|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coperto|m}}
* Polish: [[nakrycie]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reserva|f}}
* Slovene: [[pogrinjek]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cubierto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|music: rerecording of a previously recorded song|cover version}}

{{trans-top|cricket fielding position}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|topology: family of sets}}
* German: [[Überdeckung]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: [[fedés]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|övertäckning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|philately: complete envelope}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuori}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: solid object that provides protection from enemy fire}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suoja}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|legal: buyer’s purchase on the open market of goods similar or identical to the goods contracted for}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|insurance contract}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vakuutusturva}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|espionage: persona maintained by an operative}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|peitetarina}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[kovrilo]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[kovrilo]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tutup]], [[lingkup]], [[tudung]], [[sampul]]
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[カバー]] (kabā)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of or pertaining to the front cover of a book or magazine.
# {{music}} Of, pertaining to, or consisting of [[cover version]]s.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|about cover of a book or magazine}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|коричен|tr=koričen}}
* Chinese: [[封面]] (fēng miàn)
* Finnish: [[kansi-]]
* Polish: [[okładkowy]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: coberto {{m}}, coberta {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cubierta|f}}
* Swedish: compounds with {{t+|sv|omslag}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|concerning a cover version}}
* Finnish: [[cover-#Finnish|cover-]]
* Portuguese: [[clonado]] {{m}}, clonada {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: compounds with {{t+|sv|cover}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}} {{context|generally|_|transitive}}

# To [[place]] something [[over]] or [[upon]], as to [[conceal]] or [[protect]].
#: ''He '''covered''' the baby with a blanket.''
#: ''When the pot comes to a boil, '''cover''' it and reduce the heat to medium.''
# To be over or upon, as to conceal or protect.
#: ''The blanket '''covered''' the baby.''
# To be upon all of, so as to completely conceal.
#: ''Regular hexagons can '''cover''' the plane.''
# To set upon all of, so as to completely conceal.
#: ''You can '''cover''' the plane with regular hexagons.
# {{context|of a publication}} To [[discuss]] [[thoroughly]], to provide [[good]] [[coverage]] of.
#: ''The magazine '''covers''' such diverse topics as politics, news from the world of science, and the economy.''
# To [[deal with]]
#* '''2010''' (publication date), "Contributors", [[w:Discover (magazine)|''Discover'']], ISSN 0274-7529, volume 32, number 1, January–February 2011, page 7:
#*: Richard Morgan '''covers''' science for ''The Economist'', ''The New York Times'', ''Scientific American'', and ''Wired''.
# To be [[enough]] [[money]] for.
#: ''We've earned enough to '''cover''' most of our costs.''
#: ''Ten dollars should '''cover''' lunch.''
# {{intransitive}} To act as a replacement.
#: ''I need to take off Tuesday. Can you '''cover''' for me?''
# {{transitive}} To have as an assignment or responsibility.
#: ''Can you '''cover''' the morning shift tomorrow? I'll give you off next Monday instead.''
#: ''He is our salesman '''covering''' companies with headquarters in the northern provinces.''
# {{music}} To make a [[cover version]] of (a song that was originally recorded by another artist).
# {{military|law enforcement}} To protect using an aimed firearm and the threat of firing; ''or'' to protect using continuous, heaving fire at or in the direction of the enemy so as to force the enemy to remain in cover; ''or'' to threaten using an aimed firearm.
# To provide [[insurance]] [[coverage]] for.
#: ''Does my policy '''cover''' accidental loss?''
# To [[copulate]] with (said of certain male animals such as dogs and horses).
#: ''I would like to have my bitch '''covered''' next spring.''
#: ''The stallion has not '''covered''' the mare yet.''

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''cover'' (verb)}}
* [[coverage]]
* [[cover up]]
* [[cover one's bases]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[coverer]]
* [[discover]]
* [[duck and cover]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[recover]]
* [[uncover]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Descendants====
* German: {{l|de|covern}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to conceal or protect}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|غطى|tr=ġáṭṭā}}, imperfect: {{t-|ar|يغطي|tr=yuġáṭṭī}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծածկել|tr=çaçkel}}
* Aromanian: {{t-|rup|acoapir}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|скривам|tr=skrivam}}, {{t+|bg|покривам|tr=pokrivam}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|覆蓋|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|覆盖|tr=fùgài|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|覆|tr=fù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|krýt}}
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|coprer}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dekken}}, {{t+|nl|bedekken}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kovri}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piilottaa}}, {{t+|fi|peittää}}, {{t+|fi|suojata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couvrir}}
* German: {{t+|de|decken}}, {{t+|de|abdecken}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|כיסה|tr=kisá}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coprire}}, {{t+|it|nascondere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|覆う|tr=おおう, ōu}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[داپۆشه]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|cooperio|alt=cooperiō}}, {{t-|la|occulo|alt=occulō}}, {{t+|la|operio|alt=operiō}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|segt}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|dengti}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|couvréieren}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|bihreosan|alt=bihrēosan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kryć}}, {{t-|pl|przykrywać}}, {{t-|pl|okrywać}}, {{t+|pl|zakrywać}}, {{t-|pl|skrywać}}, {{t-|pl|zasłaniać}}, {{t-|pl|osłaniać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acobertar}}, {{t+|pt|esconder}}, {{t+|pt|ocultar}}, {{t+|pt|cobrir}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acoperi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прятать|tr=prjátat'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|спрятать|tr=sprjátat'}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|скрывать|tr=skryvát'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|скрыть|tr=skrýt'}} {{pf.}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|còmhdaich}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|pokriti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|esconder}}, {{t+|es|ocultar}}, {{t+|es|abrigar}}, {{t+|es|cubrir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|täcka}}, {{t+|sv|skydda}}
* Telugu: [[మూయు]] (mooyu)
* Tok Pisin: {{t-|tpi|karamapim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mention}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|behandelen}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|hõlmama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mainita}}, {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
* German: {{t+|de|abdecken}}, {{t+|de|behandeln}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coprire}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mencionar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mencionar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|täcka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|provide enough money for}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծածկել|tr=çaçkel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|покривам|tr=pokrivam}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dekken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kattaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couvrir}}
* German: {{t+|de|abdecken}}, {{t+|de|decken}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|כיסה|tr=kisá}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pokrywać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cobrir}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acoperi}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|kriti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cubrir}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|täcka upp}} för
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(music) make a cover version}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|coveren}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|coveroida}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* French: {{t+|fr|reprendre}}
* German: {{t-|de|covern}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cobrir}}, {{t+|pt|tampar}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|prirediti}}
* Swedish: göra en {{t+|sv|cover}} (på/av)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|protect by shooting}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծածկել|tr=çaçkel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|прикривам|tr=prikrivam}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dekken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suojata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couvrir}}
* German: {{t+|de|decken}}, {{t-|de|Deckung geben}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|חיפה|tr=khipá}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coprire}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|osłaniać}}, {{t+|pl|kryć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cobrir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прикрывать|tr=prikryvát'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|прикрыть|tr=prikryt'}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|kriti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|proteger}}, {{t+|es|apuntar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|täcka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|copulate}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|възкачвам|tr=văzkačvam}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|paren}}, {{t+|nl|dekken}}, {{t+|nl|bestijgen}}, {{t-|nl|bespringen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|astua}}
* German: {{t+|de|decken}}, {{t-|de|bespringen}}, {{t+|de|besteigen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coprire}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kryć}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cubrir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[kovri]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[kovrar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tutup|menutupi]], [[lingkup|melingkupi]]
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[覆う]] ([[おおう]], oou), [[カバー]]する (kabā-suru)

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:en:Espionage]]

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fi}} {{term|cover|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# [[#English|cover]], [[cover version]] {{gloss|rerecording of a previously recorded song}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-paperi|cover|i=0}}

----

==German==

===Verb===
{{head|de}}

# {{de-verb form of|covern|1|s|g}}
# {{de-verb form of|covern|i|s}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# {{music|lang=sv}} [[#English|cover]], [[cover song]]

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|3=cove}}

====Usage notes====
The plural of this word could also be ''[[covers]]''.

====Derived terms====
* [[coverband]]

===References===
* {{R:SAOL}}

[[ar:cover]]
[[az:cover]]
[[cs:cover]]
[[cy:cover]]
[[de:cover]]
[[et:cover]]
[[el:cover]]
[[es:cover]]
[[eo:cover]]
[[fa:cover]]
[[fr:cover]]
[[ga:cover]]
[[gl:cover]]
[[ko:cover]]
[[hy:cover]]
[[io:cover]]
[[it:cover]]
[[kn:cover]]
[[kk:cover]]
[[ku:cover]]
[[lt:cover]]
[[li:cover]]
[[hu:cover]]
[[mg:cover]]
[[ml:cover]]
[[my:cover]]
[[nl:cover]]
[[ja:cover]]
[[no:cover]]
[[pl:cover]]
[[pt:cover]]
[[ru:cover]]
[[sm:cover]]
[[simple:cover]]
[[fi:cover]]
[[sv:cover]]
[[tl:cover]]
[[ta:cover]]
[[te:cover]]
[[th:cover]]
[[tr:cover]]
[[vi:cover]]
[[wa:cover]]
[[zh:cover]]