==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=craft (disambiguation)|craft}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|cræft||physical strength, might, courage, science, skill, art, ability, talent, virtue, excellence, trade, handicraft, calling, work or product of art, hex, trick, fraud, deceit, machine, instrument|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*kraftaz||power}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*ger-||to turn, wind}}. Cognate with {{etyl|stq|-}} {{term|kraft||strength|lang=stq}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|krêft||strength|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|kracht||strength, force, power|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Kraft||strength, force, power|lang=de}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|kraft||power, force, drive, energy|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|kraftur||power|lang=is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/kɹɑːft/|lang=en}}
*: {{rhymes|ɑːft|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/kɹæft/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-craft.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~|craft|crafts}}

#{{lb|en|obsolete}} [[strength|Strength]]; [[power]]; [[might]].
#{{lb|en|uncountable}} [[ability|Ability]]; [[dexterity]]; [[skill]], especially skill in making plans and carrying them into [[execution]]; dexterity in [[manage|managing]] affairs; [[adroitness]]; practical [[cunning]].
#*{{w|Ben Jonson}} (1572-1637)
#*:A poem is the work of the poet; poesy is his skill or '''craft''' of making.
#*{{w|Henry Wadsworth Longfellow}} (1807-1882)
#*:Since the birth of time, throughout all ages and nations, / Has the '''craft''' of the smith been held in repute.
#{{lb|en|uncountable}} [[cunning|Cunning]], [[art]], skill, or dexterity applied to bad purposes; [[artifice]]; [[guile]]; [[subtlety]]; [[shrewdness]] as [[demonstrate]]d by being skilled in [[deception]].
#*{{w|Thomas Hobbes}} (1588-1679)
#*:You have that crooked wisdom which is called '''craft'''.
#*{{w|Bible}}, {{w|Gospel of Mark|Mark}} xiv.1:
#*:The chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by '''craft''', and put him to death.
#{{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[device]]; a [[means]]; an art; art in general.
#{{lb|en|countable|plural: '''crafts'''}} The [[skilled]] [[practice]] of a practical [[occupation]].
#The [[member]]s of a trade collectively; [[guild]].
#:{{ux|en|She represented the '''craft''' of [[brewer]]s.}}
#{{lb|en|nautical|whaling}} Implements used in catching fish, such as [[net]], [[line]], or [[hook]]. Modern use primarily in whaling, as in [[harpoon]]s, [[hand-lance]]s, etc.
#*{{ante|1784}} “An Act for encouraging and regulating Fiſheries”, in ''Acts and Laws of the State of Connecticut, in America'', T. Green (1784), [http://books.google.com/books?id=ywc4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA79&dq=craft p.79]:
#*:''And whereas the continual Interruption of the Courſe and Paſſage of the Fiſh up the Rivers, by the daily drawing of [[sein|Seins]] and other Fiſh-'''Craft''', tends to prevent their Increaſe,{{...}}'' <!-- [sic] italics -->
#*'''1869''' April 27, C. M. Scammon, Edward D. Cope (editor), “On the Cetaceans of the Western Coast of North America”, in ''Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia'', Volume 21, [http://books.google.com/books?id=9IEOAQAAIAAJ&pg=RA1-PA46&dq=craft p.46]:
#:The whaling '''craft''' consists of harpoons, lances, lines, and sealskin buoys, all of their own workmanship.
#*{{ante|1923}} {{w|Charles Boardman Hawes}}, “A Boy Who Went Whaling”, in ''The Highest Hit: and Other Selections by Newbery Authors'',<sup>[http://books.google.com/books?id=xZC5QKSqW8UC ]</sup> Gareth Stevens Publishing (2001), ISBN 9780836828566, p.47:
#*:From the mate’s boat they removed, at his direction, all whaling gear and '''craft''' except the oars and a single lance.
#*'''1950''', in ''Discovery Reports'', Volume 26,<sup>[http://books.google.com/books?id=GFgqAAAAMAAJ ]</sup> Cambridge University Press, p.318:
#*:{{...}}Temple, a negro of New Bedford, who made ‘[[whalecraft]]’, that is, was a blacksmith engaged in working from iron the special utensils or ‘'''craft'''’ of the whaling trade.
#*'''1991''', Joan Druett, ''Petticoat Whalers: Whaling Wives at Sea, 1820–1920'', University Press of New England (2001), ISBN 978-1-58465-159-8, [http://books.google.com/books?id=lwfRQFIeBYMC&pg=PA55&dq=craft p.55]:
#*:The men raced about decks collecting the whaling '''craft''' and gear and putting them into the boats, while all the time the lookouts hollered from above.
#{{lb|en|nautical}} Boats, especially of smaller size than [[ship]]s. Historically primarily applied to vessels engaged in loading or unloading of other vessels, as [[lighter]]s, [[hoy]]s, and [[barge]]s.
##{{lb|en|figurative}} A woman.
##*{{RQ:Chmbrs YngrSt|IX}}
##*:“A tight little '''craft''',” was Austin’s invariable comment on the matron; and she looked it, always trim and trig and smooth of surface like a converted yacht cleared for action.
#{{lb|en|nautical|British Royal Navy}} Those vessels attendant on a [[fleet]], such as [[cutter]]s, [[schooner]]s, and [[gun-boat]]s, generally commanded by [[lieutenant]]s.
#{{lb|en|countable|plural: '''craft'''}} A [[vehicle]] designed for [[navigation]] in or on water or air or through [[outer space]].
#{{lb|en|countable|plural: '''crafts'''}} A [[particular]] kind of skilled [[work]].
#:{{ux|en|He learned his '''craft''' as an apprentice.}}

====Usage notes====
The unchanged plural is used if the word means ''vehicle(s)''. Otherwise the regular plural is used.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''craft'' (noun)}}
* [[aircraft]]
* [[craft beer]], [[craft brewery]]
* [[Cardcraft]]
* [[gentle craft]]
* [[gypsycraft]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[hovercraft]]
* [[roadcraft]]
* [[spacecraft]]
* [[spellcraft]]
* [[spycraft]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[statecraft]]
* [[warcraft]]
* [[watercraft]]
* [[witchcraft]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|skill at work}} [[craftsmanship]], [[workmanship]]
* {{sense|nautical sense}}
* {{sense|vehicle}}
* {{sense|kind of skilled work}} [[trade]]
* {{sense|shrewdness}} [[craftiness]], [[cunning]], [[foxiness]], [[guile]], [[slyness]], [[wiliness]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|skilled practice}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արհեստ|tr=arhest}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|занаят|m}}, {{t+|bg|професия|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|řemeslo|n}}
* Danish: {{t|da|håndværk|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vak|n}}, {{t|nl|stiel|c}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|fako}}, {{t|eo|metio}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taito}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handwerk}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אומנות|f|tr=umanút|alt=אֻמָּנוּת|sc=Hebr}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ceird|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ars|f}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|sengħa}}, {{t|mt|artiġjanat}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rzemiosło|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arte|m}}, {{t+|pt|ofício|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ремесло|n|sc=Cyrl|tr=remesló}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|за̀на̄т|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|занатство}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|zànāt}}, {{t|sh|zanátstvo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|oficio|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hantverk|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|zanaat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|vehicle designed for navigation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|плавателен съд}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|plavidlo|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fartøj|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voertuig|n}}, {{t+|nl|toestel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fahrzeug}}, {{t|de|Lenkfahrzeug}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκάφος|n|tr=skáfos}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|árthach|m}}, {{t+|ga|bád|m}}, {{t|ga|soitheach|m}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ars|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nave|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|farkost|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|people who perform a particular kind of skilled work}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|արհեստավոր|tr=arhestavor}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|еснаф|m}}, {{t+|bg|гилдия|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|håndværker|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ambacht|n}}, {{t+|nl|ambachtslui|m-p}}, {{t+|nl|vaklui|m-p}}, {{t|nl|stielmannen|m-p}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|metio}}, {{t|eo|metiistoj|p}}, {{t|eo|fakuloj|p}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ammattikunta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handwerker}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ars|f}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|artiġjanatur|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|занатлија|m}}, {{t|sh|занатлијка|f}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|zanatlija|m}}, {{t+|sh|zanatlijka|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|skill in an occupation}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արհեստ|tr=arhest}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|ловкост|f}}, {{t+|bg|умение|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vakmanschap|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|käsityötaito}}, {{t|fi|työtaito}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ceardaíocht|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|職業|tr=shokugyō}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ars|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|habilidade|f}}, {{t+|pt|perícia|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|умение|n|sc=Cyrl|tr=uménije}}, {{t+|ru|сноровка|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=snoróvka}}, {{t+|ru|искусство|n|sc=Cyrl|tr=iskússtvo}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|за̀на̄т|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|zànāt}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pericia|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|shrewdness}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хитрост|f}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gewiekstheid|c}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ruzeco}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|juonikkuus}}
* German: {{t|de|Schlauheit}}, {{t|de|Geriebenheit}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хитрость|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=xítrost'}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|препрѐдено̄ст|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|preprèdenōst|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make by hand and with much skill.
# To construct, develop something (like a skilled craftsman): "state crafting", "crafting global policing".
# {{lb|en|video games}} to [[combine]] multiple [[item]]s to form a new item

====Translations====
{{trans-top|make by hand}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|изработвам на ръка}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|fet a mà}}
* Danish: {{t|da|håndlavet}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|handbewerken}}
* German: {{t|de|handgemacht}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|a face de mână}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мастерить|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|проявлять мастерство|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|изготавливать вручную|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|ручно направљено}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|ručno napravljeno}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|labrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|construct, develop}}
* Danish: {{t|da|bygge}}, {{t|da|konstrukere}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|construir}}, {{t+|pt|desenvolver}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|construi}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|construir}}, {{t+|es|desarrollar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* Krueger, Dennis (December 1982). "Why On Earth Do They Call It Throwing?" ''Studio Potter'' Vol. 11, Number 1.[http://www.studiopotter.org/articles/?art=art0001]

[[Category:English invariant nouns]]

[[az:craft]]
[[cs:craft]]
[[cy:craft]]
[[de:craft]]
[[et:craft]]
[[el:craft]]
[[eo:craft]]
[[fa:craft]]
[[fr:craft]]
[[ko:craft]]
[[hy:craft]]
[[io:craft]]
[[id:craft]]
[[kn:craft]]
[[ku:craft]]
[[li:craft]]
[[hu:craft]]
[[mg:craft]]
[[ml:craft]]
[[my:craft]]
[[nl:craft]]
[[pl:craft]]
[[ru:craft]]
[[sa:craft]]
[[simple:craft]]
[[fi:craft]]
[[sv:craft]]
[[ta:craft]]
[[te:craft]]
[[vi:craft]]
[[zh:craft]]