==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɹæʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-crash.ogg|Audio (US)}}

* {{rhymes|æʃ}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|crasschen||lang=enm|to break into pieces}}, of unknown origin, possibly onomatopoeia.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# An [[automobile]], airplane, or other vehicle accident.
#: ''She broke two bones in her body in a car '''crash'''.''
#: ''Nobody survived the plane '''crash'''''
# A [[computer]] [[malfunction]] that is caused by faulty [[software]], and makes the system either partially or totally inoperable.
#: ''My computer had a '''crash''' so I had to reboot it.''
# A [[loud]] [[sound]] as made for example by [[cymbal]]s.
#: ''The piece ended in a crescendo, building up to a '''crash''' of cymbals.''
# A sudden large decline of business or the prices of stocks (especially one that causes additional failures)
#: ''the stock market ''crash'''''
# A [[comedown]] of a drug.
# A group of [[rhinoceros]]es.
#* {{post|1991}} <!-- b.g.c. claims it's from '86, but its scan of the back cover clearly shows a Web address --> Patrick F. McManus, “''Nincompoopery'' and Other Group Terms”, in ''The Grasshopper Trap'', Henry Holt and Company, ISBN 0-8050-0111-5, page 103,
#*: One of my favorites among the terms of groups of creatures is a '''''crash''''' of rhinoceros. I can imagine an African guide saying to his client, “Shoot, dammit, shoot! Here comes the whole bloody '''crash''' of rhinoceros!”
#*: […] Personally, I think I’d just as soon come across a '''crash''' of rhinoceros as a knot of toad.
#* '''1998''', E. Melanie Watt, ''Black Rhinos'', page 19
#*: The largest group of black rhinos reported was made up of 13 individuals. A group of rhinos is called a '''crash'''.
#* '''1999''', Edward Osborne Wilson, ''The Diversity of Life'', page 126
#*: Out in the water a '''crash''' of rhinoceros-like animals browse belly deep through a bed of aquatic plants.
#* '''2003''', Claude Herve-Bazin, Judith Farr ''Kenya and Tanzania'', page 23
#*: The '''crash''' of rhinoceros at Tsavo now numbers almost 200.
# [[dysphoria]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[crash and burn]]
* [[crash course]]
* [[crashpad]]
* [[stock market crash]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|vehicle accident}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|حادث إصطدام|m|tr=Haadith 'iSTidaam}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|катастрофа|f}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|墜毀|坠毁|zhuìhuǐ}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|sammenstød|n}}, {{t-|da|flystyrt|n}}, {{t-|da|crash|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|botsing}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|onnettomuus}}, {{t+|fi|törmäys}}, {{t+|fi|kolari}}
* French: {{qualifier|airplane}} {{t+|fr|écrasement|m}}, {{t+|fr|accident|m}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zusammenstoß|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* {{trreq|Hungarian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|incidente|m}}, {{t+|it|scontro|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|クラッシュ|tr=kurasshu}}, {{t-|ja|激突|tr=gekitotsu}}
* {{trreq|Korean}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|kraksa|f}}, {{t+|pl|wypadek|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|авария|f|tr=avárija}},  {{t+|ru|крушение|n|tr=krušénije}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|choque|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computer malfunction}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|срив|m}},  {{t-|bg|сриване|n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|nedbrud|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|crash|m}}, {{t-|nl|computercrash|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaatuminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plantage|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Absturz|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|blocco|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|awaria|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|crache|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поломка|f|tr=polómka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|loud sound}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|трясък|m}},  {{t+|bg|грохот|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|krash}}, {{t-|da|brag|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|knal|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rysähdys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Krachen|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fracasso|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|grzmot|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|грохот|m|tr=gróxot}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sudden large decline of business}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|крах|m}},  {{t+|bg|провал|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|crash|m}}, {{t-|nl|beurscrash|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|romahdus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|krach|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|crollo|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|krach|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|крах|m|tr=krax}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|comedown of a drug}}
* French: {{t+|fr|descente|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|herd of rhinos}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lauma}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[quick]], [[fast]], [[intensive]]
#: ''[[crash course]]''
#: '''''crash''' diet''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|quick, fast, intensive}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|внезапно}},  {{t-|bg|с трясък}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|forceret}}, {{t-|da|lyn-}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pika-}}, {{t-|fi|intensiivi-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|crash|es}}

# {{transitive}} To collide with something [[destructively]], fall or come down violently.
# {{transitive}} To severely damage or destroy something by causing it to [[collide]] with something else.
#: ''I'm sorry for '''crashing''' the bike into a wall. I'll pay for repairs.''
# {{transitive|slang}} (via [[gatecrash]]) To attend a social event without invitation.
#: ''We weren't invited to the party so we decided to '''crash''' it.''
# {{transitive|management}} To accelerate a project or a task or its schedule by devoting more resources to it.
#* {{quote-book|title=Project management that works|page=109|author=Rick A. Morris|coauthors=Brette McWhorter Sember|year=2008|passage=Using the project plan, the team started to work out different scenarios to '''crash''' the schedule and bring the date to the regulatory deadline.}}
# {{intransitive}} To make or experience informal temporary living arrangements.
#: ''Hey [[dude]], can I '''crash''' at your [[pad]]?''
# {{computing|software|intransitive}} To [[terminate]] [[extraordinary|extraordinarily]].
#: ''If the system '''crashes''' again, we'll have it fixed in the computer shop.''
# {{computing|software|transitive}} To cause to terminate extraordinarily.
#: ''Double-clicking this icon '''crashes''' the desktop.''
# {{intransitive}} To experience a period of [[depression]] and/or [[lethargy]] after a period of euphoria, as after the euphoric effect of a psychotropic drug has dissipated.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to collide, fall or come down violently}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|تحطم|tr=taHattama}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|катастрофирам}}
* Chinese:
*: {{ttbc|cmn}}: {{t|cmn|碰撞|tr=pèngzhuàng|sc=Hani}}, {{zh-tsp|墜毀|坠毁|zhuìhuǐ}}, {{zh-tsp|摔壞|摔坏|shuāihuài}}, {{zh-tsp|摔傷|摔伤|shuāishāng}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|crashe}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|neerstorten}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kraŝi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|törmätä}},  {{t+|fi|romahtaa}},  {{t+|fi|sortua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|s'écraser}}
* German: {{t+|de|krachen}},  {{t-|de|anprallen}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|衝突する|tr=shōtotsu-suru}}, {{t-|ja|クラッシュする|tr=kurasshu-suru}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|разбиться|tr=razbít'sja}},  {{t+|ru|врезаться|tr=vrézat'sja}},  {{t+|ru|грохнуться|tr=gróxnut'sja}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|chocar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to severely damage or destroy by causing to collide with something else}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разбивам}},  {{t+|bg|строшавам}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|romuttaa}}, {{t-|fi|törmäyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|bäikéieren}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|разбить|tr=razbít'}}, {{t+|ru|грохнуть|tr=gróxnut'}}, {{t+|ru|сломать|tr=slomát'}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: to turn up without having been invited}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|binnenvallen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuokkia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imbucarsi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|нагрянуть}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make informal temporary living arrangments}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|overnatte}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pieuter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|переночевать}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: to terminate unexpectedly}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|تحطم|tr=taHattama}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|сривам се}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|墜毀|坠毁|zhuìhuǐ}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|vastlopen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaatua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|planter}}
* German: {{t+|de|abstürzen}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|クラッシュする|tr=kurasshu-suru}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|crachar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сломаться|tr=slomát'sja}}, {{t+|ru|грохнуться|tr=gróxnut'sja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|ru}} {{term|крашенина||coarse linen|tr=krašenína|lang=ru}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|fibre}} Plain [[linen]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|plain, rough linen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rohdin}},  {{t-|fi|tappura}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[chars#English|chars]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==Dutch==

===Verb===
{{head|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|crashen}}
# {{nl-verb-form|m=imp|crashen}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} [[crash]]

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|of an aircraft}} [[crash landing]]
# {{economics|lang=fr}} [[#English|crash]]
# {{computing|lang=fr}} [[#English|crash]]

====Derived terms====
* [[crasher]]

[[et:crash]]
[[el:crash]]
[[es:crash]]
[[eu:crash]]
[[fa:crash]]
[[fr:crash]]
[[ko:crash]]
[[io:crash]]
[[it:crash]]
[[kn:crash]]
[[ku:crash]]
[[hu:crash]]
[[mg:crash]]
[[ml:crash]]
[[mr:crash]]
[[my:crash]]
[[nl:crash]]
[[km:crash]]
[[pl:crash]]
[[pt:crash]]
[[ru:crash]]
[[simple:crash]]
[[fi:crash]]
[[ta:crash]]
[[te:crash]]
[[th:crash]]
[[vi:crash]]
[[zh:crash]]