==English==

===Etymology===
{{etystub}}

Possible candidates:
* From [http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_etymology_of_the_word_crazy WikiAnswers]: c.1369, probably from O.N. *[[krasa]] "shatter," perhaps via an [[Old French]] form. Originally "to shatter;" now-obsolete metaphoric use for "break down in health" (1476) led to n. sense of "mental breakdown." Extension to "mania, fad," is first recorded 1813. Original sense preserved in crazy quilt pattern. Crazy is from 1576 as "sickly;" from 1617 as "insane;" and from 1927 in jazz slang for "cool, exciting." Phrase crazy like a fox recorded from 1935.
* From [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=crazy EtymOnline]: 1570s, "diseased, sickly," from [[craze]] + [[-y]] (2). Meaning "full of cracks or flaws" is from 1580s; that of "of unsound mind, or behaving as so" is from 1610s. Jazz slang sense "cool, exciting" attested by 1927. To drive (someone) crazy is attested by 1873. Phrase crazy like a fox recorded from 1935. Crazy Horse, Teton Lakhota (Siouan) war leader (d.1877) translates thašuka witko, lit. "his horse is crazy."

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈkɹeɪzi/}}
* {{audio|en-us-crazy.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪzi}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|craz|ier}}

# [[insane]], [[demented]]
# out of control
#: When she gets on the motorcycle she goes '''crazy'''.
# overly excited or [[enthusiastic]]
#: He went '''crazy''' when he won.
# filled with foolish or unreasoned [[affection]]
#: Why is she so '''crazy''' about him?

====Synonyms====
* [[Wikisaurus:insane]]
* {{sense|out of control}} {{l|en|off the chain}}
{{checksyns}}
* [[deranged]]
* [[zany]]
* [[loco]]

====Derived terms====
* [[craze]]
* [[crazily]]
* [[craziness]]
* [[crazing]]
* [[crazy bone]]
* [[crazy mad]]
* [[crazy paving]]
* [[crazy quilt]]
* [[like crazy]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|insane, demented}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|مجنون|tr=majnuun}}
* [[Azeri]]: {{t|az|dəli|xs=Azeri}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|boix|m}}
* [[Cebuano]]: {{tø|ceb|buang}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|癡線|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|瘋狂|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|疯狂|tr=fēngkuáng|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|瘋|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn| 疯|tr=fēng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|šílený}}, {{t-|cs|pominutý}}, {{t-|cs|trhlý}}, {{t-|cs|potrhlý}}, {{t-|cs|zbavený rozumu}}, {{t-|cs|ztřeštěný}}, {{t-|cs|bláznivý}}
* Danish: {{t|da|skør}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|freneza|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fou|m}}, {{t+|fr|folle|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|შეშლილი|tr=šešlili|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|გადარეული|tr=gadareuli|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|verrückt}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|狂しい|tr=くるおしい, kuruoshii}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|louco}}
* {{trreq|Romanian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сумасшедший|tr=sumasšédšij}}, {{t+|ru|безумный|tr=bezúmnyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|loco}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|lienetik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|out of control}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|顛|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}, {{tø|yue|癡線|sc=Hani|xs=Cantonese}}
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|瘋|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|疯|tr=fēng|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|瘋狂|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|疯狂|tr=fēngkuáng|sc=Hani}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fou|m}}, {{t+|fr|folle|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|verrückt}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|louco}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сумасшедший|tr=sumasšédšij}}, {{t+|ru|безумный|tr=bezúmnyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|loco}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|marrë|xs=Albanian}}
* [[Betawi]]: [[gokil]]
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|lud|m}}
* Bulgarian: [[побъркан]], [[смахнат]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[boig]]
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|matitu}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|lud}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|šílený}}, {{t-|cs|pominutý}}, {{t-|cs|trhlý}}, {{t-|cs|potrhlý}}, {{t-|cs|zbavený rozumu}}, {{t-|cs|ztřeštěný}}, {{t-|cs|bláznivý}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|skør}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gek}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hullu}}, {{t-|fi|mielenvikainen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τρελός|tr=trelos}}
* Hebrew: [[משוגע]] (meshuga) {{m}}, [[משוגעת]] (meshuga'at) {{f}}
* Hindi: [[पागल]] (pāgal), [[दिवाना]] (divāna)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|őrült}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|gila|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pazzo}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|頭のおかしい|tr=atama-no okashii}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|شێت|tr=shaet|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: [[traks]]
* Malay: {{t-|ms|gila|xs=Malay}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|gal}}, {{t-|no|galen}}, {{t-|no|gæren}}, {{t-|no|sinnsyk}}, {{t-|no|sprø}}, {{t-|no|vanvittig}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{t-|ps|لېونى|m|tr=lewanai|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[ديوانه]]}} (divāne),  {{fa-Arab|[[مجنون]]}} (majnun)
* [[Pitjantjatjara]]: [[rama]]
* Portuguese: [[maluco]], [[louco]], [[doido]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[às a chiall]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[луд]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[lud]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|nor}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|galen}}, {{t+|sv|stollig}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[baliw]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[పిచ్చి]] (pichchi)
* Thai: [[บ้า,คลั่งใคล้]] (bah)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|deli}}
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[پاگل]]}} (pāgal), {{ur-Arab|[[دیوانہ]]}} (divāna)
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|điên|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|khùng|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|gek|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# {{slang}} [[very|Very]], [[extremely]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun|crazies}}

# an [[insane]]  or [[eccentric]] person; a [[crackpot]]

====Synonyms====
* [[lunatic]]
* [[mad man]]
* [[nut ball]]
* [[nut case]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|an insane or eccentric person}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|смахнат}},  {{t|bg|побъркан}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fou|m}},  {{t+|fr|folle|f}}
* [[Ngarrindjeri]]: {{tø|nay|wurangi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|galning|m}}, {{t-|no|gærning|m}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{t-|ps|لېونى|m|tr=lewanai|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}

[[Category:English degree adverbs]]

[[cy:crazy]]
[[de:crazy]]
[[et:crazy]]
[[el:crazy]]
[[es:crazy]]
[[fa:crazy]]
[[fr:crazy]]
[[gl:crazy]]
[[ko:crazy]]
[[io:crazy]]
[[id:crazy]]
[[it:crazy]]
[[kn:crazy]]
[[hu:crazy]]
[[my:crazy]]
[[nl:crazy]]
[[oc:crazy]]
[[pl:crazy]]
[[ru:crazy]]
[[simple:crazy]]
[[fi:crazy]]
[[ta:crazy]]
[[te:crazy]]
[[vi:crazy]]
[[zh:crazy]]