{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/kɹiːm/}}
*{{audio|en-us-cream.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Alternative spellings===
*[[creme]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The oily part of [[milk]] which rises to the top.
# {{color}} A yellowish white [[colour]]; the colour of cream.
#:<table><tr><td>cream colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#FFFDD0" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# The best part.
#: ''The cream of the crop.''
# A product to apply to the skin.
# {{slang}} Money.
#: ''First introduced to the world by the [[Wu-Tang Clan]] in 1993 on the hit single C.R.E.A.M., which stands for Cash Rules Everything Around Me.''
# {{vulgar}} Semen.

====Translations====

{{trans-top|the oily part of milk}}
*Albanian: [[ajkë]] {{f}}, [[kajmak]] {{m}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[قشطة]]}} {{unicode|(qíšʈa)}} {{f}}
*Chinese: [[奶油]] (nǎiyóu)
*Croatian: [[kajmak]] {{m}}
*Czech: [[smetana]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[fløde]]
*Dutch: [[room#Dutch|room]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[kremo]]
*Estonian: [[koor]]
*Finnish: [[kerma]]
*French: [[crème]] {{f}}
*German: [[Sahne]] {{f}}, [[Obers]] (''Austria''), [[Rahm]] {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[שמנת]] {{romanization of Hebrew|shaménet}} {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[tej]][[szín]]
*Indonesian: [[kepala]] [[susu]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[panna]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[クリーム]] (kuriimu)
*Mongolian: [[цөцгий]] (tsötsgii)
*Northern Sami: [[lákca]]
*Norwegian: [[fløte]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[سرشیر]]}} (sarshir)
*Portuguese: [[creme]] {{m}}, [[nata]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[śmietana]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[smântână]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[сливки]] (slívki) {{f}} {{p}}
*Slovene: [[smetana]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[nata]] {{f}}, [[crema]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[grädde]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[మీగడ]] (meegaDa) (1)
*Turkish: [[kaymak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colour}}
*Danish: [[cremefarve]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[crème]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[kermankeltainen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[קרם]] {{romanization of Hebrew|krém}} {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[creme]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[crema]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the best part}}
*Danish: [[creme]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[crème de la crème]]
*Finnish: [[kerma]]
*French: [[crème de la crème]], [[fleur]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[קצפת]] {{romanization of Hebrew|katséfet}} {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[creme]] {{m}}, [[nata]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[smetana]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[la flor y la crema]] {{f}} [[la crema]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|product to apply to the skin}}
*Danish: [[creme]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[crème]] {{f}}, [[zalf]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[voide]]
*French: [[crème]] {{f}}, [[onguent]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[קרם]] {{romanization of Hebrew|krém}} {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[creme]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[krema]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[crema]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|money}}
*Spanish: [[pasta]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[kremkoloro]] (2), [[ungvento]] (4)
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[crème]] {{f}} (2,3,4), [[gratin]] (3)
*{{ttbc|Galician}}: [[crema]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Creme]] (2-4)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[krém]] (4)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: cream (4)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[crema]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[クリーム]] (kurīmu)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[크리임]] (keuriim)
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[کرم]]}} (kerem) (2,4)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[crem]] (2), [[cremă]] (3,4)
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[krem]] (2?,4)
*{{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[krem]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{colour}} Cream-coloured; having a yellowish white [[colour]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|colour}}
*Chinese: [[奶油变色]] (nǎiyóu biànsè)
*Danish: [[cremefarvet]]
*Dutch: [[crèmekleurig]], [[crème]]
*Esperanto: [[kremkolora]], [[krema]]
*Finnish: [[kermankeltainen]]
*French: [[crème]]
*[[Galician]]: [[crema]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[crema]]
*Japanese: [[クリーム色]] (kurīmuiro)
*Norwegian: [[fløte farget]]
*Portuguese: [[creme]], [[de cor creme]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[کرم]]}} (kerem)
*Spanish: [[color crema|de color crema]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[kremik]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To turn into a yellowish white [[colour]]; to give something the color of cream.
# To puree, to blend with a liquifying process.
#: ''Cream the vegetables with the olive oil, flour, salt and water mixture''.
# {{slang}} To obliterate, to win over someone else quite decisively.
#: ''We creamed the opposing team!''
# {{vulgar}} To ejaculate.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to turn yellowish white}}
*Finnish: [[kalveta]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cream vegetables}}
*Danish: [[purere]], [[røre]] til [[creme]]
*Finnish: [[soseuttaa]]
*Spanish: [[mezclar con crema]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to obliterate, to win over someone else quite decisively}}
*Spanish: [[hacer polvo]], [[hacer papilla]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top3|Derived terms}}
*[[barrier cream]]
*[[Boston cream pie]]
*[[ceramware]]
*[[Chantilly cream]]
*[[clotted cream]]
*[[cold cream]]
*[[cream bun]]
*[[cream cake]]
*[[cream cheese]]
*[[cream cracker]]
*[[cream horn]]
*[[cream of tartar]]
{{rel-mid3}}
*[[cream puff]]
*[[cream sauce]]
*[[cream sherry]]
*[[cream soda]]
*[[cream tea]]
*[[creamcups]]
*[[creamer]]
*[[cream-laid]]
*[[creamy]]
*[[Devonshire chream]]
*[[double cream]]
*[[egg cream]]
{{rel-mid3}}
*[[glacier cream]]
*[[heavy cream]]
*[[ice cream]]
*[[salad cream]]
*[[shaving cream]]
*[[sour cream]]
*[[sun cream]]
*[[suntan cream]]
*[[the cream of the crop]]
*[[vanishing cream]]
*[[whipping cream]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Related terms===
{{top3}}
*[[crème brûlée]]
*[[crème caramel]]
*[[crème de cacao]]
*[[crème de la crème]]
{{mid3}}
*[[crème de menthe]]
*[[crème fraîche]]
*[[espresso crème]]
{{mid3}}
*[[ramekin]]
*[[ras malai]]
*[[vichyssoise]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:Whites]]

[[ang:cream]]
[[ar:cream]]
[[el:cream]]
[[fa:cream]]
[[fr:cream]]
[[io:cream]]
[[it:cream]]
[[hu:cream]]
[[ja:cream]]
[[pl:cream]]
[[ru:cream]]
[[simple:cream]]
[[fi:cream]]
[[vi:cream]]
[[tr:cream]]
[[zh:cream]]