==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[crēopan]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|/krēp/}}, {{IPA|/kriːp/}}, {{SAMPA|/kri:p/}}
*{{audio|en-us-creep.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːp|-iːp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The movement of something that creeps.
# A relatively small gradual change, variation or deviation (from a planned value) in a measure.
# A slight displacement of an object: the slight movement of something
# {{context|publishing}} In sewn books, the tendency of [[page]]s on the inside of a [[quire]] to stand out farther than those on the outside of it.
# {{context|materials science}} An increase in [[strain]] with time; the gradual [[flow]] or [[deformation]] of a material under [[stress]].
# {{geology}} The [[imperceptible]] [[downslope]] movement of surface [[rock]].
# {{context|informal|pejorative}} An annoying irritating person
# {{context|informal|pejorative}} A frightening and/or disconcerting person, especially one who gives the speaker [[chills]] or who induces [[psychosomatic]] facial itching.
#: ''Stop following me, you '''creep'''!''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|movement of something that creeps}}
*Dutch: [[kruip]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[strisciare]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small gradual change in a measure}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|informal: an annoyingly unpleasant person}}
*Dutch: [[griezel]] {{m}}, [[engerd]] {{m}}
*German: [[Knilch]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[antipatico]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|creeps|creeping|crept|'''[[crept]]''' or archaic '''[[cropen]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To move slowly with the [[abdomen]] close to the ground.
#: ''Lizards and snakes '''crept''' over the ground.''
# {{transitive}} Of [[plant]]s, to grow across a surface rather than upwards.
# {{transitive}} To move slowly and quietly in a particular direction.
#: ''He tried to '''creep''' past the guard without being seen.''
# {{transitive}} To change gradually in a particular direction.
#: ''Prices have been '''creeping''' up all year.''

====Synonyms====
*{{i-c|move slowly with the abdomen close to the ground}} [[crawl]]
*{{i-c|grow across a surface rather than upwards}}
*{{i-c|move slowly and quietly in a particular direction}}
*{{i-c|make small gradual changes in a particular direction}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|move slowly with the abdomen close to the ground}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[arrossegar-se]]
*Czech: plazit se
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*Danish: [[krybe]]
*Esperanto: [[rampi]]
*Finnish: [[ryömiä]], [[madella]]
*French: ramper
*German: [[kriechen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[strisciare]]
*Japanese: [[這う]] (hau)
*Portuguese: [[rastejar]]
*Russian: [[ползти]]
*Spanish: [[arrastrarse]], [[reptar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grow across a surface rather than upwards}}
*Danish: [[krybe]]
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*German: [[kriechen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[這う]] (hau), [[伝う]] (tsutau)
*Russian: [[стелиться]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move slowly and quietly in a particular direction}}
*Danish: [[krybe]]
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*Finnish: [[hiipiä]]
*German: [[schleichen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[忍び寄る]] (shinobi-yoru)
*Russian: [[стелиться]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|change gradually in a particular direction}}
*Dutch: [[opschuiven]]
*German: [[schleichen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Frisian}}: [[krûpe]]

===Derived terms===
*[[creep up on]]
*[[creepy]]
*[[decrepit]]
*[[function creep]]
*[[give someone the creeps]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[ar:creep]]
[[el:creep]]
[[fa:creep]]
[[fr:creep]]
[[ko:creep]]
[[io:creep]]
[[it:creep]]
[[hu:creep]]
[[pl:creep]]
[[pt:creep]]
[[ru:creep]]
[[fi:creep]]
[[vi:creep]]
[[uk:creep]]
[[zh:creep]]