==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|/krē.ā'tyo͝ə/}}, {{IPA|/kɹiːˈeɪtjʊə/}}, {{SAMPA|/kr\i:"eItju@/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|/krē.ā'chər/}}, {{IPA|/kɻiːˈeɪʧɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/kr\`i:"eItS@`/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|chiefly|literary|and|philosophy}} {{alternative spelling of|[[creature#English|creature]]}}
#* '''1850?''': [[w:Dante Gabriel Rossetti|Dante Gabriel Rossetti]], ''[http://www.rossettiarchive.org/docs/12-1851.fizms.rad.html Early Christmas Carols (fair copy, Fitzwilliam Museum)]'', №5: ''Followis ane sang of the birth of Christ, with the tune of Balulalow'', verse 4
#*: O God, that made all '''creäture''', —
#*: How art thou become so poor,
#*: On the hay and the straw to lie
#*: Among the asses, oxen, and kye.
#* '''1881?''': Dante Gabriel Rossetti, <i>The King’s Tragedy: James I of Scots — 20<sup>th</sup> February, 1437</i>, verse 77, lines 339–345
#*: <i>“Unworthy but only of her grace,
#*:  Upon Love’s rock that’s easy and sure,
#*: In guerdon of all my love’s space
#*:  She took me her humble '''creäture'''.
#*:  Thus fell my blissful aventure
#*: In youth of love that from day to day
#*: Flowereth aye new, and further I say.</i> […]<i>”</i>
#* '''????''': The work of A<small>N</small> U<small>NKNOWN</small> E<small>DITOR OF</small> ''[[w:The Man of Law's Prologue and Tale|The Man of Lawes Tale]]'' : a tale of ''[[w:The Canterbury Tales|The Canterbury Tales]]'', by [[w:Geoffrey Chaucer|Geoffrey Chaucer]] {{i|original written [[circa]] 1484}}, page or verse number unknown
#*: This lettre spake, the quene delivered was
#*: Of so horrible a fendliche '''creäture''',
#*: That in the castle, non so hardy was,
#*: That any whilè dorste therein endure.
#*: The mother was an elfe by áventure,
#*: Y come, by charmès or by sorcerie,
#*: And everich man hateth hire conlpagnie.
#* '''????''': The work of A<small>N</small> U<small>NKNOWN</small> E<small>DITOR OF</small> ''[[w:The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale|The Wife of Bathes Tale]]'' : a tale of ''The Canterbury Tales'', by Geoffrey Chaucer {{i|original written circa 1484}}, page or verse number unknown
#*: The day was come that homward must he turne;
#*: And in his way it happed him to ride,
#*: In all his care, under a forest side,
#*: Wheras he saw upon a dancè go
#*: Of ladies foure and twenty, and yet mo:
#*: Toward this ilke dance he drow ful yerne,
#*: In hope that he som wisdom shuldè lerne;
#*: But certainly, er he came fully there,
#*: Yvanished was this dance, he n’iste not wher;
#*: No '''creäture''' saw he that barè lif,
#*: Save on the grene he saw sitting a wif,
#*: A fouler wight ther may no man devise.
#* '''????''': Michael Murphy [''[[Ed.]]''], ''[[w:Troilus and Criseyde|Troilus and Criseyde]] by Geoffrey Chaucer: A Reader-Friendly Edition put into Modern Spelling'', book Ⅴ, verses 22<sup>{1}</sup>, 30<sup>{2}</sup>, 33<sup>{3}</sup>, 82<sup>{4}</sup>, 93<sup>{5}</sup>, and 195<sup>{6}</sup> {{i|original written between the years of '''1374–1386'''}}
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>And n’ere it that we be so near the tent
#*: Of Calchas, which that see us both may,
#*: I would of this you tell all mine intent,
#*: But this ensealed is till another day.
#*: Give me your hand; I am and shall be ay,
#*: God help me so, while that my life may dure,
#*: Your own, aboven every '''creäture'''. <br>
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>And there his sorrows that he spared had
#*: He gave an issue large, and “Death!” he cried,
#*: And in his throes frénetic and mad
#*: He curseth Jove, Apollo, and Cupid,
#*: He curseth Bacchus, Ceres, and Cyprid,
#*: His birth, himself, his fate, and eke Natúre,
#*: And, save his lady, every '''creäture'''. <br>
#*: <sup>{3}</sup>How should I thus ten days full endure
#*: When I the first night have all this teen?
#*: How shall she do eke, sorrowful '''creäture''',
#*: For tenderness how shall she eke sustain
#*: Such woe for me? O! piteous, pale, and green,
#*: Shall be your fresh womanlic face
#*: For languor ere you turn unto this place. <br>
#*: <sup>{4}</sup>Full pale y-waxen was her bright face,
#*: Her limbs lean, as she that all the day
#*: Stood when she durst, and looked on the place
#*: Where she was born, and where she dwelled had ay;
#*: And all the night weeping, alas! she lay.
#*: And thus despaired out of all cure,
#*: She led her life, this woeful '''creäture'''. <br>
#*: <sup>{5}</sup>Criseyd mean was of her statúre.
#*: Thereto so shaped of face, and eke of cheer,
#*: There mighten be no fairer '''creäture''';
#*: And often times this was her mannér
#*: To go y-tressed with her haires clear
#*: Down by her collar, at her back behind,
#*: Which, with a thread of golde, she would bind. <br>
#*: <sup>{6}</sup>Through which I see that clean out of your mind
#*: You have me cast, and I ne can nor may
#*: For all this world within mine heart find
#*: To unlove you a quarter of a day.
#*: In cursed time I born was, welaway!
#*: That you that do me all this woe endure,
#*: Yet love I best of any '''creäture'''. <br>
#* '''1992''': T. Brampton, [http://dev.hil.unb.ca/Texts/EPD/UNB/view-works.cgi?c=middleen.1428&pos=33 ''Hic Incipiunt Septem Psalmi Penitenciales, De Latino Translati In Anglicum'' {{i|A paraphrase on the Seven Penitential Psalms (1862): a machine-readable transcript}}]; '''of the print source:'''
#* '''1878''': A<small>NONYMOUSLY WRITTEN</small> [[Middle English|M<small>IDDLE</small> E<small>NGLISH]] POETRY</small>, ''Adam Davy’s 5 Dreams about Edward II. The Life of St. Alexius. Solomon’s Book of Wisdom. St. Jeremie’s 15 Tokens before Doomsday. The Lamentacion of Souls. Edited from the Laud Ms. 622 in The Bodleian Library by F. J. Furnivall'', pp28 (''Mercy, Lord, I calle and crye'', lines 153–156)<sup>{1}</sup> & 42 (''To thé, Lord! I calle and cry'', lines 61–64)<sup>{2}</sup>
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>Offryng and schedyng of beestys blood
#*: Were made in awterys, in figure
#*: Of Cryist, that deyid up on the rood,
#*: To raunsoun synfull '''creäture'''. <br>
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>There myyte no pore '''creäture''',
#*: Whan we were thralle, make us fre;
#*: For on owre syde was no recure,
#*: But ‘Ne reminiscaris, Domine!’

====Usage notes====
* ''See the pertinent usage note at [[creature#Usage notes|creature]].''