{{also|Crook}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɹʊk/|lang=en}}
* {{a|obsolete}} {{IPA|/kɹuːk/|lang=en}}<ref>{{cite-book|author=John Walker|title=A critical pronouncing dictionary|url=https://books.google.co.nz/books?id=9OsIAAAAQAAJ|archiveurl=|archivedate=|year=1824|page=149}}</ref>
* {{audio|en-us-crook.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʊk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|croke}}, {{m|enm|crok}}, from {{inh|en|ang|*crōc|t=hook, bend, crook}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*krōkaz||bend, hook}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*greg-||tracery, basket, bend}}. Cognate with {{cog|nl|kreuk||a bend, fold, wrinkle}}, {{cog|gml|kroke}}, {{m|gml|krake||fold, wrinkle}}, {{cog|da|krog||crook, hook}}, {{cog|sv|krok||crook, hook}}, {{cog|is|krókur||hook}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[bend]]; [[turn]]; [[curve]]; [[curvature]]; a [[flexure]].
#: {{ux|en|She held the baby in the '''crook''' of her arm.}}
#* {{rfdate|and other bibliographic particulars and context|lang=en}} {{w|Thomas Phaer}}
#*: through lanes, and '''crooks''', and darkness
# A bending of the knee; a [[genuflection]].
# A [[bent]] or curved part; a curving piece or portion (of anything).
#: {{ux|en|the '''crook''' of a cane}}
#* {{RQ:Chmbrs YngrSt|I}}
#*: It was flood-tide along Fifth Avenue; motor, brougham, and victoria swept by on the glittering current; pretty women glanced out from limousine and tonneau; young men of his own type, silk-hatted, frock-coated, the '''crooks'' of their walking sticks tucked up under their left arms, passed on the Park side.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[lock]] or [[curl]] of hair.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[gibbet]].
#: {{rfquotek|Edmund Spenser}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A support beam consisting of a post with a cross-beam resting upon it; a bracket or truss consisting of a vertical piece, a horizontal piece, and a strut.
# A shepherd's crook; a [[staff]] with a semi-circular bend ("hook") at one end used by [[shepherd]]s.
#* '''1970''', ''The New English Bible with the Apocrypha, Oxford Study Edition'', published 1976, Oxford University Press, ''Psalms'' 23-4, p.583:
#*: Even though I walk through a / valley dark as death / I fear no evil, for thou art with me, / thy staff and thy '''crook''' are my / comfort.
# A bishop's staff of office.
# An [[artifice]]; a [[trick]]; a [[contrivance]].
#* {{rfdate|and other bibliographic particulars and context|lang=en}} {{w|Thomas Cranmer}}
#*: for all your brags, hooks, and '''crooks'''
# A person who steals, lies, cheats or does other dishonest or illegal things; a criminal.
#* '''1973''' November 17, {{w|Richard Nixon}}, reported 1973 November 18, ''The Washington Post'', [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/national/longterm/watergate/articles/111873-1.htm ''Nixon Tells Editors, ‘I'm Not a Crook’''],
#*: "People have got to know whether or not their President is a '''crook'''. Well, I′m not a '''crook'''. I′ve earned everything I′ve got."
# A [[pothook]].
#* {{rfdate|and other bibliographic particulars and context|lang=en}} Sir {{w|Walter Scott}}
#*: as black as the '''crook'''
# {{lb|en|music}} A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc., to change its pitch or key.


=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|criminal}} See [[Thesaurus:criminal]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|by hook or by crook}}
* {{l|en|by hook or crook}} {{qualifier|US}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a criminal who steals, lies, cheats or does other dishonest or illegal things}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|крадец|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|oplichter|m}}, {{t+|nl|oplichtster|f}}, {{t+|nl|zwendelaar|m}}, {{t|nl|zwendelaarster|f}}, {{t+|nl|afzetter|m}}, {{t|nl|afzetster|f}}, {{t+|nl|bedrieger|m}}, {{t+|nl|bedriegster|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|fikomercisto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rikollinen}}, {{t+|fi|konna}}
* French: {{t+|fr|escroc|m}}, {{t+|fr|arnaqueur}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gauner|m}}, {{t+|de|Ganove|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απατεώνας|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|glæpamaður|m}}, {{t|is|þorpari|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|maling}}, {{t+|id|bajingan}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|bithiúnach|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|furfante|m}}, {{t+|it|ladro|m}}, {{t+|it|truffatore|m}}
* Norwegian Bokmål: {{t|nb|skurk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ladrão|m}}, {{t+|pt|ladra|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вор|m}} {{qualifier|thief}}, {{t+|ru|плут|m}}, {{t+|ru|моше́нник|m}}, {{t+|ru|жу́лик|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|ло́пов|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|lópov|m}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|lopov|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ladrón|m}}, {{t+|es|ladrona|f}}, {{t+|es|ratero|m}}, {{t+|es|ratera|f}}, {{t+|es|truhán|m}}, {{t+|es|truhana|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a staff with a hook at one end, particularly one used by shepherds}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|гега|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|käyräsauva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|houlette|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|კავი}}, {{t|ka|კაუჭი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Krücke}}, {{t+|de|Krückstock}} {{qualifier|crutch, cane}}, {{t|de|Hirtenstab|m}}, {{t|de|Krummstab|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γκλίτσα|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hirðingjastafur|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|crúca|m}}, {{t|ga|bachall|f}}, {{t|ga|caimín|m}}, {{t|ga|camóg|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pastorale|m}}, {{t+|it|vincastro|m}}
* Latin: {{t|la|agolum|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cajado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|по́сох|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|bachall|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cayado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a bend}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|извивка|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|taive}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courbe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gancho|m}}, {{t+|pt|curva|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|изги́б|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|doblez|m}}, {{t+|es|curva|f}}, {{t|es|curvidad|f}}, {{t|es|torcedura|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[bend]], or form into a hook.
#: ''He '''crooked''' his finger toward me.''
#* c. '''1600''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Hamlet}}'', Act III, Scene 2, [http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=hamlet&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]
#*: No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp, / And '''crook''' the pregnant hinges of the knee / Where thrift may follow fawning.
#* '''1784''', {{w|William Blake}}, Songs from ''{{w|An Island in the Moon}}'', in ''Blake: The Complete Poems'', edited by W. H. Stevenson, Routledge, 3rd edition, 2007, p. 50,
#*: For if a damsel's blind or lame, / Or nature's hand has '''crooked''' her frame, / Or if she's deaf or is wall-eyed; / Yet if her heart is well inclined, / Some tender lover she shall find / That panteth for a bride.
#* '''1917''', [[w:Leo Tolstoy|Leo Tolstoy]], [[w:Constance Garnett|Constance Garnett]] (translator)'' [[s:Anna Karenina|Anna Karenina]]'', Part 4, Chapter 5,
#*: “{{...}}In the following cases: physical defect in the married parties, desertion without communication for five years,” he said, '''crooking''' a short finger covered with hair{{...}}.
# To turn from the path of rectitude; to pervert; to misapply; to twist.
#* '''1545''', {{w|Roger Ascham}}, ''Toxophilus'', edited by {{w|Edward Arber}}, Westminster: A. Constable & Co., 1895, pp. 57-8, [https://archive.org/details/RogerAschamToxophilus1545]
#*: For the foundation of youth well sette (as Plato doth saye) the whole bodye of the commune wealth shall floryshe therafter. If the yonge tree growe croked, when it is oulde, a man shal rather breake it than streyght it. And I thinke there is no one thinge yat '''crokes''' youth more then suche vnlefull games.
#* '''1597''', {{w|Francis Bacon}}, "Of Wisdom For a Man's Self," ''[[w:Essays (Francis Bacon)|The Essays or Counsels, Civil and Moral]]'', [http://www.gutenberg.org/files/575/575-h/575-h.htm]
#*: The referring of all to a man's self, is more tolerable in a sovereign prince; because themselves are not only themselves, but their good and evil is at the peril of the public fortune. But it is a desperate evil, in a servant to a prince, or a citizen in a republic. For whatsoever affairs pass such a man's hands, he '''crooketh''' them to his own ends; which must needs be often eccentric to the ends of his master, or state.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|crooked}} {{qualifier|adjective}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bend}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|извивам}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|koukistaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courber}}
* German: {{t+|de|krümmen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|curvar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сгиба́ть}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|curvar}}, {{t+|es|doblar}}, {{t+|es|torcer}}, {{t+|es|enchuecar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{m|en|crooked||dishonestly come by}}. <ref>[http://andc.anu.edu.au/australian-words/meanings-origins?field_alphabet_value=81 Australian National Dictionary Centre Home » Australian words » Meanings and origins of Australian words and idioms » C]</ref>

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|slang}} Bad, unsatisfactory, not up to [[standard]].
#: ''That work you did on my car is '''crook''', mate''
#: ''Not turning up for training was pretty '''crook'''.''
#: ''Things are '''crook''' at Tallarook.''
#* {{quote-text|year=2004|author={{w|Robert Barnard}}|title=A Cry from the Dark|page=21|url=http://books.google.com.au/books?id=NoOp5G-CGqQC&pg=PA21&dq=%22are%7Cbe+crook+at%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=R4QzT82mDY7qmAWVqN2DAg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22are%7Cbe%20crook%20at%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false|passage=“Things are '''crook''' at home at the moment.”}}
#*: “They′re always '''crook''' at my home.”
# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|slang}} [[ill|Ill]], [[sick]].
#: ''I′m feeling a bit '''crook'''.''
# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|slang}} [[annoyed|Annoyed]], [[angry]]; [[upset]].
#: ''be '''crook''' at/about''; ''go '''crook''' at''
#* '''2006''', Jimmy Butt, Felicity Dargan, ''I've Been Bloody Lucky: The Story of an Orphan Named Jimmy Butt'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=hpLU50pmCs0C&pg=PA17&dq=%22go|gone|went+crook+at%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0oUzT8KBE4X5mAX58pWJAg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22go|gone|went%20crook%20at%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 17],
#*: Ann explained to the teacher what had happened and the nuns went '''crook''' at me too.
#* '''2007''', Jo Wainer, ''Bess'', ''Lost: Illegal Abortion Stories'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ln97vrDVN58C&pg=PA159&dq=%22go|gone|went+crook+at%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0oUzT8KBE4X5mAX58pWJAg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22go|gone|went%20crook%20at%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 159],
#*: I went home on the tram, then Mum went '''crook''' at me because I was late getting home—I had tickets for Mum and her friend to go to the Regent that night and she was annoyed because I was late.
#* {{quote-text|year=2007|author=Ruby Langford Ginibi|title=Don′t Take Your Love to Town|page=100|url=http://books.google.com.au/books?id=6xEKJLBTnkQC&pg=PA100&dq=%22go%7Cgone%7Cwent+crook+at%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KYozT_ndH8_omAX1ovSSAg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22go%7Cgone%7Cwent%20crook%20at%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false|passage=I went '''crook''' at them for not telling me and as soon as she was well enough I took her home to the camping area and she soon picked up.}}
#* {{quote-text|year=2009|author=Carolyn Landon|title=Cups With No Handles: Memoir of a Grassroots Activist|page=234|url=http://books.google.com.au/books?id=AkMZc1dAwCsC&pg=PA234&dq=%22go%7Cgone%7Cwent+crook+at%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0oUzT8KBE4X5mAX58pWJAg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22go%7Cgone%7Cwent%20crook%20at%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false|passage=Mum went '''crook''' at me for wasting money, but when Don got a job and spent all his money on a racing bike, she didn′t say a thing to him.}}

=====Usage notes=====
Synthetic comparative and superlative forms (''[[crooker]]'', ''[[crookest]]'') also find frequent use.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|crook as Rookwood}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Crime]]
[[Category:en:People]]