==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|corona|lang=la||wreath}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/kraʊn/}}, {{SAMPA|/kraUn/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|kroun}}, {{IPA|/kroʊn/}}, {{SAMPA|/kroUn/}}
* {{audio|en-ca-crown.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
*: {{rhymes|aʊn}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A reward of victory or a mark of [[honor]].
# A [[royal]], imperial or princely headdress; a [[diadem]].
# A representation of such a headdress, as in [[heraldry]]; it may even be that only the image exists, no physical crown, as in the case of the kingdom of Belgium; by analogy such crowns can be awarded to moral persons that don't even have a head, as the mural crown for cities in heraldry
# A [[wreath]] or band for the head.
# Imperial or regal power.
# The topmost part of the [[head]].
# The highest part a hill.
# The top part of a hat.
# The raised centre of a road.
# The highest part of an arch.
# Splendor, finish, culmination.
#: '''''crown''' achievement''
# Any currency (originally) issued by the crown (regal power) and often bearing a crown (headdress)
# Specifically, a former British coin worth five [[shilling]]s.
<!--Disputed: # a [[koruna]], [[kruna]], [[krone]].-->
# {{botany}} The part of a plant where the root and stem meet.
# {{anatomy}} The part of a tooth above the gums.
# {{dentistry}} A [[prosthetic]] covering for a [[tooth]].<!-- isn't the whole visible tooth a crown? -->
# {{nautical}} A [[knot]] formed in the end of a rope by tucking in the [[strands]] to prevent them from unravelling
# {{nautical}} The part of an [[anchor]] where the [[arms]] and the [[shank]] meet
# {{context|paper}} A standard size of printing paper measuring 20 inches x 15 inches.
# {{chemistry}} A [[monocyclic]] [[ligand]] having three or more binding sites, capable of holding a guest in a central location

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|reward of victory or a mark of honor}} [[award]], [[garland]], [[honor]]/[[honour]], [[prize]], [[wreath]]
* {{sense|royal, imperial or princely headdress}} [[coronet]]
* {{sense|representation of such a headdress}}
* {{sense|wreath or band for the head}} [[garland]], [[wreath]]
* {{sense|imperial or regal power}} [[monarchy]], [[royalty]]
* {{sense|of the head}} [[apex]], [[top]]
* {{sense|of a hill}} [[apex]], [[peak]], [[summit]], [[top]]
* {{sense|centre of a road}}
* {{sense|highest part of an arch}}
* {{sense|of a hat}} [[top]]
* {{sense|splendor, finish, culmination}} [[completion]], [[culmination]], [[finish]], [[splendor]]/[[splendour]]
* {{sense|currency}}
* {{sense|British coin}}
* {{sense|part of plant}}
* {{sense|anatomy: part of tooth}} [[corona]]
* {{sense|dentistry: prosthetic covering for a tooth}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|of a hill}} [[bottom]], [[foot]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top}}
* [[crown achievement]]
* [[crown colony]]
* [[Crown Court]]
* [[crown estate]]
* [[crown green]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[crown lands]]
* [[crown jewels]]
* [[crown prince]]
* [[crown wheel]]
* [[half-crown]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|reward of victory or a mark of honor}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|榮冠|荣冠}}([[róng]][[guàn]])
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kronen}}, {{t+|nl|bekronen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|royal, imperial or princely headdress}}
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|chepe'kiline}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|王冠|王冠}}([[wáng]][[guàn]])
* Chinese Characters: [[冠]] ([[guàn]])
* [[Coptic]]: {{tø|cop|ⲕⲗⲟⲙ|tr=klom|sc=Copt}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|koruna|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon|m}}
* [[Egyptian]]: {{tø|egy|ḫʽw|sc=Egyp}}
*: <hiero>xa:a-V1-S7</hiero>
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kroon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kruunu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronne|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Krone|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|στέμμα|n|tr=stémma|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|κορώνα|f|tr=koróna|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[כתר]] (keter) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|korona}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|kóróna|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corona|f}}
* Japanese: [[王冠]] ([[おうかん]], ōkan), [[クラウン]] (kuraun)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t-|ku|تاج|tr=tAj|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|corona|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|korona|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|coroa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|корона|f|tr=koróna|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|венец|m|tr=venéts|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|krona|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corona|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|krona}}
* Welsh: [[coron]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|representation of such a headdress}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kruunu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|корона|f|tr=koróna|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wreath or band for the head}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|koruna|f}}
* Dutch: [[krans]], [[hoofdband]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronne|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|венок|m|tr=venók|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|imperial or regal power}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[王]][[權]]|[[王]][[权]]}}([[wáng]][[quán]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|koruna|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kroon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kruunu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronne|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Krone|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|krúna|f}}
* Russian: [[королевский|королевская]] [[власть]] (korolévskaja vlast’) {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|krona|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of the head}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[頭]][[頂]]|[[头]][[頂]]}}([[tóu]][[dǐng]])
* Dutch: [[kruin]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|pealagi}}, {{t|et|lagipea}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|päälaki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sommet|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κορυφή|f|tr=koryfí|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|κορφή|f|tr=korfí|sc=Grek}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|krúna|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|cocuzzolo|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|topo|m}}, {{t+|pt|alta|f}}
* Russian: [[макушка]] (makúška) {{f}}; [[темя]] (témja) {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|coronilla|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a hill}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[頂]][[峰]]|[[顶]][[峰]]}}([[dǐng]][[fēng]])
* Dutch: [[hoogste]] [[punt]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sommet|m}}, {{t+|fr|faîte|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cima|f}}, {{t+|it|vetta|f}}, {{t-|it|cocuzzolo|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cume|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вершина|f|tr=v'eršína|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cumbre|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|centre of a road}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|midden}}
* Finnish: [[keskitie]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|milieu|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|centro|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|highest part of an arch}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|top}}
* French: {{t+|fr|clef|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|chiave di volta|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a hat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bol}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fond|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|copa|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|тулья|f|tr=túl'ja|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|splendor, finish, culmination}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tipp}}, {{t-|et|nael}}, {{t-|et|kroon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronnement|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|any currency issued by the crown}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|koruna|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kroon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kruunu}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|крона|f|tr=króna|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|former British coin worth five shillings}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of a plant where the root and stem meet}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|anatomy: part of tooth}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|齒冠|齿冠}} ([[chǐ]][[guān]])
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kroon}}, {{t|et|hambakroon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kruunu}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corona|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|коронка|f|tr=korónka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|krona|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dentistry: prosthetic covering for a tooth}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[鑲]][[假]][[齒冠]]|[[镶]][[假]][[齿冠]]}} ([[xiāng]][[jiǎ]][[chǐ]][[guān]])
* Czech: {{t-|cs|korunka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kroon}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kroon}}, {{t|et|hambakroon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronne|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κορώνα|f|tr=koróna|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|capsula|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|коронка|f|tr=korónka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of an anchor}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|perä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|diamante|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|тренд|m|tr=trend|sc=Cyrl}},{{t+|ru|пятка|f|tr=p'átka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[크라운]] (keuraun)
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[corona#Latin|corona]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[korona]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[koruna]] {{f}} (1, 2, 5, 7)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of, related to, or pertaining to a crown.
#: '''''crown''' prince''
# Of, related to, pertaining to the top of a [[tree]] or trees.
#: ''a '''crown''' fire''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of, related to, or pertaining to a crown}}
* Dutch: [[kroon-]], [[kroons-]]
* Finnish: [[kruunun-]]
* French: de la {{t+|fr|couronne}}
* German: [[kronen-]]
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|kóróna|alt=krón-}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[наследный]] (naslédnyj, ''only as part of expressions like'' [[наследный]] [[принц]])
* Slovak: [[korunný]] {{m}}, [[korunná]] {{f}}, [[korunné]] {{n}}
* Slovene: [[kronski]] {{m}}, [[kronska]] {{f}}, [[kronsko]] {{n}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|kron-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To place a crown on the head of.
# To formally declare (someone) a [[king]] or [[emperor]].
# To [[declare]] (someone) a [[winner]].
# {{medicine}} Of a [[baby]], during the [[birth]]ing process; for the surface of the baby's head to appear in the [[vaginal]] opening.
#: ''The mother was in the second stage of labor and the fetus had just '''crowned''', prompting a round of encouragement from the midwives.''
# To hit on the head
# {{video games}} To shoot an opponent in the back of the head with a shotgun in a first-person shooter video game.
# {{context|board games}} In [[checkers]], to [[stack]] two checkers to indicate that the piece has become a [[king]].
#: ''“'''Crown''' me!” I said, as I moved my checker to the back row.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to place a crown on the head of}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|加冕|加冕}} ([[jiā]][[miǎn]])
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kronen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronner}}
* German: {{t-|de|krönen}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|krýna}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|coronare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[coroar]]
* Russian: [[короновать]] (koronovát’), [[увенчивать]] (uvénčivat’)
* Slovak: [[korunovať]]
* Slovene: [[kronati]], [[okronati]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|coronar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kröna}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to formally declare one a king or emperor}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|加冕|加冕}} ([[jiā]][[miǎn]])
* Czech: {{t-|cs|korunovat}}
* Dutch: [[kronen]], [[koning kronen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kruunata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronner}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|להכתיר|tr=lehaktyr|sc=Hebr}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|krýna}}
* Russian: [[короновать]] (koronovát’), [[венчать]] ([[на]] [[царство]]) (venčát’ (na tsárstvo))
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kröna}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|declare one a winner}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bekronen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couronner}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[crowned]]
<!--move to "crowning":
* [[crowning achievement]]
* [[crowning glory]]-->

===See also===
* [[coronation]]

[[Category:Currency]]
[[Category:Headgear]]
[[Category:Paper sizes]]

[[ca:crown]]
[[et:crown]]
[[fa:crown]]
[[fr:crown]]
[[hy:crown]]
[[io:crown]]
[[id:crown]]
[[it:crown]]
[[hu:crown]]
[[nl:crown]]
[[oc:crown]]
[[ru:crown]]
[[simple:crown]]
[[fi:crown]]
[[ta:crown]]
[[te:crown]]
[[vi:crown]]
[[uk:crown]]
[[zh:crown]]