==English==
{{rfc|verb section has redundant senses. Original Websters entry?}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kraʊd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-crowd.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aʊd}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term/t|ang|crūdan}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|kruien|lang=nl}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[push]], to [[press]], to [[shove]].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To  press or [[drive]] together; to [[mass]] together.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[fill]] by pressing or thronging together; hence, to encumber by [[excess]] of numbers or quantity.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To press by [[solicitation]]; to [[urge]]; to dun; hence, to treat [[discourteously]] or [[unreasonably]].
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To approach another [[ship]] too closely when it has [[right of way]]
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To press together or [[collect]] in numbers; to [[swarm]]; to [[throng]]
#* Addison
#*: The whole company '''crowded''' about the fire.
#* Macaulay
#*: Images came '''crowding''' on his mind faster than he could put them into words.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To urge or press forward; to force oneself.
#: ''A man '''crowds''' into a room.''
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} (''of a square-rigged ship'') {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To carry excessive sail

=====Derived terms=====
* [[crowd control]]
* [[crowd manipulation]]
* [[crowd out]]
* [[crowd psychology]]
* [[crowd sail]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A group of [[people]] congregated or collected into a [[close]] [[body]] without order.
#: ''After the movie let out, a '''crowd''' of people pushed through the exit doors.
# Several things [[collected]] or [[close]]ly pressed together; also, some things [[adjacent]] to each other.
#: ''There was a '''crowd''' of toys pushed beneath the couch where the children were playing.
# (with definite article) The so-called lower orders of people; the [[populace]], [[vulgar]].
#: ''To fool the '''crowd''' with glorious lies. --[[w:Alfred_Tennyson%2C_1st_Baron_Tennyson|Tennyson]].''
#: ''He went not with the '''crowd''' to see a shrine. -- [[w:John_Dryden|Dryden]].''
# A group of [[people]] united or at least characterised by a common [[interest]].
#: ''That obscure author's fans were a nerdy '''crowd''' which hardly ever interacted before the Internet age.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|group of things}} [[aggregation]], [[cluster]], [[group]], [[mass]]
* {{sense|group of people}} [[audience]], [[group]], [[multitude]], [[public]], [[swarm]], [[throng]]
* {{sense|the "lower orders" of people}} [[everyone]], [[general public]], [[masses]], [[rabble]], [[mob]], [[unwashed]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[crowd catch]]
* [[crowd-pleaser]]
* [[work the crowd]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|group of people}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|turmë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|حشد|m|tr=ḥášid|sc=Arab}}, {{t-|ar|زحمة|f|tr=záḥma|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{tø|arz|زحمة|f|tr=zaḥma|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ամբոխ|tr=ambox}}, {{t-|hy|բազմություն|tr=bazmut’yun}}
* {{trreq|eu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|навалица|f|tr=navalica}}
* {{trreq|my}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|multitud|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|人群|tr=rénqún|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|群眾|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|群众|tr=qúnzhòng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dav|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|menigte|f}},  {{t+|nl|schare|m|f}}, {{t+|nl|massa}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|amaso}}
* {{trreq|et}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|väkijoukko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|foule|f}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ბრბო|tr=brbo|sc=Geor}}, {{t-|ka|გროვა|tr=grova|sc=Mymr}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gedränge|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πλήθος|n|tr=plithos|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|המון|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|जनता|tr=jantā|sc=Deva}}, {{t-|hi|भीड़|f|tr=bhīṛ|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tömeg}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þyrping}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|slua|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|folla|f}}, {{t+|it|turba|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|人込み|tr=ひとごみ, hitogomi|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|群衆|tr=ぐんしゅう, gunshū|sc=Jpan}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|foule|f}}, {{tø|roa-jer|fliotchet|m}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|군중|tr=gunjung|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|sc=ku-Arab|قه‌له‌باڵغی}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|lo}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|turba|f}}, {{t+|la|vulgus|n}}, {{t+|la|multitudo|f}}
* {{trreq|lv}}
* {{trreq|lt}}
* {{trreq|mt}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|जमाव|sc=Deva}},  {{t-|mr|समुह|sc=Deva}},  {{t-|mr|गर्दी|sc=Deva}}
* {{trreq|mn}}
* {{trreq|ne}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|flokk|m}}, {{t+|no|mengde|m}}, {{t-|no|folkehav|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|جمعیت|tr=jam'iyyat|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|tłum|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|multidão|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|mulțime|f}}, {{t-|ro|masă de oameni|f}}, {{t-|ro|gloată}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|толпа|f|tr=tolpá}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|гу̑жва|f}}, {{t-|sh|свјѐтина|f}}, {{t-|sh|ма̀са|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|gȗžva|f}}, {{t-|sh|svjètina|f}}, {{t-|sh|màsa|f}}
* {{trreq|si}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|muchedumbre|f}}, {{t-|es|turba|f}}, {{t+|es|multitud|f}}, {{t+|es|montón|f}}, {{t+|es|vulgo|f}}
* {{trreq|sw}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|folkmängd|c}}, {{t+|sv|folkmassa|c}}, {{t+|sv|massa|c}}
* {{trreq|ta}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|గుంపు|tr=gumpu|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|బృందము|tr=brumdamu|sc=Telu}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[มหาชน]]}} (máhăa chon)
* {{trreq|bo}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kalabalık}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|натовп|m|tr=nátovp|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t+|ur|بھیڑ|f|tr=bhīṛ|sc=ur-Arab}}
* {{trreq|vi}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|torf|f}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|kloft}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group of things}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|كوم|tr=kaum|m}}
* Armenian: [[կույտ]] (kuyt),  {{t-|hy|բազմություն|tr=bazmut’yun}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|куп|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[一堆]]|[[一堆]]}} (yìduī)
* Dutch: [[hoop]], [[massa]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pino}}, {{t+|fi|kasa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|monceau|m}}
* Georgian: [[გროვა]] (grova)
* German: {{t+|de|Haufen|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þyrping}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mucchio|m}}
* Japanese: [[積み重ね]] (つみかさね, tsumikasane)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[무더기]] (mudeogi)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|haug|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pilha|f}}, {{t+|pt|monte|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|grămadă|f}}, {{t-|ro|mulțime|f}}, {{t-|ro|maldăr|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|куча|f|tr=kúča}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|го̀мила|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|gòmila|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|montón|m}}, {{t+|es|multitud|f}}, {{t+|es|amasijo|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mängd|c}}, {{t+|sv|massa|c}}, {{t+|sv|hög|c}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[กอง]]}} (gong)
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|купа|f|tr=kúpa|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the “lower orders” of people}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|тълпа|f}}
* Chinese: [[群众]] (qúnzhòng)
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|gepeupel|n}}, {{t+|nl|massa}}, {{t+|nl|volk|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|väentungos}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|massa|f}}, {{t+|pt|povo|m}}, {{t+|pt|plebe|f}}, {{t+|pt|ralé|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|gloată|f}}, {{t-|ro|prostime|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|толпа|f|tr=tolpá|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|gràisg|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|свјѐтина|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|svjètina|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|massa|c}}, {{t+|sv|folkmassa|c}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|gwrengod|p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{l|ar|حشد}} (ħášid) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[大勢]] (ōzei)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[gemang|ġemang]], [[þreat|þrēat]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[dav#Slovak|dav]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[గుంపు]] (guMpu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Celtic, from Welsh ''[[crwth]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[crwth]], an Ancient Celtic [[plucked]] [[string instrument]].
#* Ben Jonson
#*: A lackey that {{...}} can warble upon a '''crowd''' a little.
# {{qualifier|now dialectal}} A [[fiddle]].
#* '''1819''': wandering palmers, hedge-priests, Saxon minstrels, and Welsh bards, were muttering prayers, and extracting mistuned dirges from their harps, '''crowds''', and rotes. — Walter Scott, ''Ivanhoe''
#* '''1684''': That keep their consciences in cases, / As fiddlers do with '''crowds''' and bases — Samuel Butler, "Hudibras"

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|obsolete|intransitive|lang=en}} To [[play]] on a crowd; to [[fiddle]].
#* Massinger
#*: Fiddlers, '''crowd''' on.

===References===
{{Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* [[c-word#English|c-word]]

[[cs:crowd]]
[[cy:crowd]]
[[et:crowd]]
[[el:crowd]]
[[es:crowd]]
[[eo:crowd]]
[[eu:crowd]]
[[fa:crowd]]
[[fr:crowd]]
[[ko:crowd]]
[[hr:crowd]]
[[io:crowd]]
[[it:crowd]]
[[kn:crowd]]
[[ku:crowd]]
[[lt:crowd]]
[[li:crowd]]
[[hu:crowd]]
[[mg:crowd]]
[[ml:crowd]]
[[my:crowd]]
[[nl:crowd]]
[[ja:crowd]]
[[ps:crowd]]
[[pl:crowd]]
[[pt:crowd]]
[[ru:crowd]]
[[simple:crowd]]
[[fi:crowd]]
[[sv:crowd]]
[[tl:crowd]]
[[ta:crowd]]
[[te:crowd]]
[[chr:crowd]]
[[vi:crowd]]
[[zh:crowd]]