{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|cruschen|lang=enm}}, {{term|crousshen|lang=enm}}, {{etyl|fro}} {{term|cruisir|lang=fro}}, {{term|croissir|lang=fro}} < {{LL.}} {{term|cruscire|lang=la}}, probably of {{Ger.}} origin, from a derivative of the word seen in Gothic {{term|||tr=kruistan|to gnash|lang=got}} {{rfscript|Gothic}}; akin to Swedish {{term|krysta||to squeeze|lang=sv}}, Danish {{term|kryste|lang=da}}, Icelandic {{term|kreysta|lang=is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/krʌʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-crush.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|crushes}}

# A violent collision or compression; a [[crash]]; [[destruction]]; [[ruin]].
# Violent [[pressure]], as of a crowd; a crowd which produced uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a reception.
# A short-lived and [[unrequited]] [[love]] or [[infatuation]]; the object of this infatuation.
#* '''2004:''' [[w: Chris Wallace (journalist)|Chris Wallace]], ''Character:  Profiles in Presidential Courage''
#*: It had taken nine years from the evening that [[w:Harry Truman|Truman]] first showed up with a pie plate at her mother's door, but his dogged perseverance eventually won him the hand of his boyhood Sunday school '''crush'''.
# A [[standing stock]] or [[cage]] with movable sides used to restrain [[livestock]] for safe handling

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
* [[crush hat]]
{{mid}}
* [[crush room]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a violent collision or compression}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: {{tø|crh|taptamaq|xs=Crimean Tatar}}
* Finnish: [[murskaus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|ressa|f}}, {{t+|it|calca|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|choque|m}}, {{t+|pt|colisão|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|violent pressure, as of a crowd}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|puristus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a short-lived and unrequited love or infatuation}}
* {{trreq|Chinese}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bevlieging}}
* Finnish: [[ihastus]]
* French: {{t|fr|bégouin}}, {{t|fr|amourette}}
* {{trreq|German}}
* Hebrew: [[הידלקות]] (hidalqut) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cotta|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Japanese}}
* {{trreq|Portuguese}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|увлечение|n|tr=uvlečénije|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|пылкая любовь|f|tr=pýlkaja ljubóv’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: estar [[embobado]], estar [[colado]], estar [[encaprichado]]
* {{trreq|Swedish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a chute or corridor in a cattle yard}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[hancur|menghancurkan]], [[remuk|meremukkan]], [[lumat|melumat]], [[tumbuk|menumbuk]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[砕く]] ([[くだく]], kudaku), [[破壊]]する ([[はかい]]する, hakai-suru)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|crush|es}}

# To [[press]] or [[bruise]] between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass.
#: ''to '''crush''' grapes''
#: ''Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or '''crushed''', or broken, or cut. --Lev. xxii.''
# To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute.
#: ''to '''crush''' quartz''
# To [[overwhelm]] by pressure or weight; to [[beat]] or [[force down]], as by an incumbent weight.
# To [[oppress]] or [[burden]] grievously.
# To [[overcome]] completely; to subdue totally.
# {{intransitive}} To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force'
#: ''an eggshell '''crushes''' easily''
# To feel infatuation with or unrequited love for.
#: ''She's '''crushing''' on him.''

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
* [[crush on]]
* [[crush out]]
{{mid}}
* [[crushed sugar]]
* [[crushed velvet]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to press or bruise between two hard bodies}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|drtit}}
* Dutch: [[verpletteren]], [[pletten]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|murskata}}, {{t-|fi|musertaa}}, {{t-|fi|rusentaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|amassar}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|pronn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|drtit}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[to]], [[tu]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jauhaa}}, {{t-|fi|pirstoa}}, {{t+|fi|hienontaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[esmigalhar]], [[pulverizar]], [[triturar]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|pronn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to overwhelm by pressure or weight}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|drtit}}
* Dutch: [[verpletteren]], [[vermorzelen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|murskata}}, {{t-|fi|musertaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[למחוץ]] (limkhotz)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esmagar}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|pronn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to oppress or burden grievously}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|drtit}}
* Dutch: [[verdrukken]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dominar}}, {{t+|pt|subjugar}}, {{t+|pt|vencer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to overcome completely}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rozdrtit}}
* Dutch: verpletteren, [[overweldigen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|murskata}}, {{t-|fi|nujertaa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to crush out}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|musertaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|espremer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be or become broken down or in}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rozbít}} '''se'''
* Finnish: [[murskautua]], [[musertua]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|moer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:1913}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:crush]]
[[fa:crush]]
[[fr:crush]]
[[hy:crush]]
[[io:crush]]
[[it:crush]]
[[lo:crush]]
[[hu:crush]]
[[simple:crush]]
[[fi:crush]]
[[ta:crush]]
[[te:crush]]
[[vi:crush]]
[[zh:crush]]