==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[coynte]] 

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|cunte|lang=enm}}, {{term|queynt|lang=enm}}, {{term|queynte|lang=enm}} from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{recons|cunte|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|kuntōn|lang=gem-pro}}. Cognate with Frisian {{term|kunte|lang=fy}}, dialectal Swedish {{term|kunta|lang=sv}}, dialectal Danish {{term|kunte|lang=da}}, Dutch {{term|kont||arse|lang=nl}} and Icelandic {{term|kunta|lang=is}}. A relationship to Latin {{term|cunnus|lang=la}} has not been conclusively shown. Partridge suggests {{term|cuneus|lang=la}}, a wedge.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|kŭnt}}, {{IPA|/kʌnt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/kVnt/}}
* {{audio|En-au-cunt.ogg|Audio (AUS)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌnt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{context|vulgar|colloquial|countable}} The female [[genitalia]], especially the [[vulva]].
#* '''1930''', D. H. Lawrence, ''Lady Chatterley's Lover'', Chapter 12 (speaking Midlands vernacular, but both Lawrence and his character know standard English)
#*: An' doesn't ter know? Cunt! It's thee down theer; an' what I get when I'm i'side thee, and what tha gets when I'm i'side thee; it's a' as it is, all on't.
#* '''1983''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''Sebastian'', Faber & Faber 2004 (''Avignon Quintet''), p. 1138:
#*: Ah! This power-house of human misery and ecstasy, the '''cunt'''!
#* '''1959''', William S. Burroughs, ''Naked Lunch'', page 68
#*: Blind boys grope out of huge pies, deteriorated schizophrenics pop from a rubber '''cunt''', boys with horrible skin diseases rise from a black pond (sluggish fish nibble yellow turds on the surface).
#* '''2004''', Leo Benedictus, "A bit of hanky-panky", ''The Guardian'', 23 Jun 04:
#*: Then there is a drum roll, and I watch open-mouthed as she bends over and produces a string of red cloths from her femininity. "What better way to celebrate 10 years of Camberwell Arts Week than pulling 10 red handkerchiefs out of my '''cunt'''?" she asks.
# {{context|vulgar|offensive|colloquial|countable}} An extremely [[unpleasant]] or [[objectionable]] person (in US, especially a woman; in UK or Ireland, more usually a man).
#* '''2009''', Patrick Barkham, "Top Gear: Why We're Mad About the Boys", ''The Guardian'', 12 Nov 09:
#*: He rails against political correctness and health and safety regulations, and earlier this summer was accused of calling Gordon Brown "a '''cunt'''" in unbroadcast comments to his Top Gear audience, whom he has also referred to as "oafs".
# {{British|NZ|vulgar|colloquial|countable}} An [[objectionable]] object or item.
#: ''Fix the car? I’ll sort the '''cunt''' out at the weekend.''
# {{British|Australia|Ireland|NZ|Scotland|vulgar|colloquial}} An [[unpleasant]] or [[difficult]] experience or incident.
#: ''I had a real '''cunt''' of a day.'' ''It was a '''cunt''' of an experience getting through it.''
# {{context|vulgar|colloquial|countable|and|uncountable}} A [[woman]], [[women]], or [[bottom]] as a source of [[sex]].
#: ''I’m going to hit the clubs and see if I can get me some '''cunt'''.''
# {{Australia|New Zealand|British|vulgar|positive|colloquial|countable}} A person (mostly between male friends); compare [[bastard]].
#: ''Yes, I do remember Dave, he was one '''funny cunt'''.''
#: ''Tom's a '''good cunt''', he fixed my car and didn't even charge me for it!''

====Usage Notes====

Writing in 1961, Partridge notes the term has been avoided "in written and polite spoken English" from the 15th Century and has been considered obscene (and thus illegal to publish) since around 1700.  Partridge further notes the absence of the term from the 1932 ''Universal Dictionary of English'' and the 1933 ''Shorter Oxford Dictionary''.  Partridge himself bowdlerizes the term as ''c*nt''.  

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Synonyms====
* ''See [[Wikisaurus:vagina]]''

====Derived terms====
{{top3}}
* [[cunt cap]]
* [[cunted]]
* [[cuntfest]]
* [[cuntfuck]]
* [[cuntfucker]]
* [[cunthead]]
* [[cunting]]
{{mid3}}
* [[cuntish]]
* [[cunt juice]]
* [[cuntless]]
* [[cuntlike]]
* [[cuntlips]]
* [[cunt splice]]
* [[supercunt]]
{{mid3}}
* [[cunty]]
* [[decunt]]
* [[cuntward]]
* [[encunt]]
* [[red cunt hair]]
* [[uncunt]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|genitalia}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|kont}}, {{t-|af|poes}}, {{t-|af|doos}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|pidh|m}}, {{t-|sq|piçkë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|كس|m|tr=kis, kus}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|պուց|tr=puc’}}
* Azeri: {{t-|az|am}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|пізда|f|tr=pizdá|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|путка|f|tr=pútka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cony|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|閪|tr=hai1}}, {{tø|yue|屄|tr= bei1, hai1}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|屄|tr=bī|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|逼|tr=bī|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|used instead of a more vulgar character {{l|cmn|屄}}}}
* Corsican: {{t-|co|chjichja|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|píča|f}}, {{t+|cs|kunda|f}}, {{t+|cs|pizda|f}}
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|con|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kusse|c}}, {{t+|da|fisse|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kut|f}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|puts}}, {{t-|et|vitt}}, {{t-|et|tuss}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vittu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chatte|f}}, {{t+|fr|con|m}}
*: Old French: {{tø|fro|con|m}}, {{tø|fro|landie|f}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|მუტელი|tr=muteli|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fotze|f}}, {{t+|de|Muschi|f}}, {{t+|de|Möse|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μουνί|n|tr=mouní|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|כוס|m|tr=kus}} {{qualifier|vulgar}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|चूत|f|tr=čūt|sc=Deva}}, {{t-|hi|योनी|f|tr=yonī|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|pina}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|píka|f}}, {{t+|is|kunta|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tempik}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|pit|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fica|f}}, {{t+|it|figa|f}}, {{t+|it|fregna|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|まんこ|tr=manko}}, {{t-|ja|おまんこ|tr=omanko}}, {{t-|ja|ぼぼ|tr=bobo|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|へへ|tr=hehe|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|ほと|tr=hoto|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|おめこ|tr=omeko|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|おそそ|tr=ososo|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|みと|tr=mito|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|つび|tr=tsubi|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|われめ|tr=wareme|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|われめちゃん|tr=waremechan|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|ам|tr=am|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|កណ្ដួយ|tr=kɑnduəy|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|보지|tr=boji|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|씹|tr=ssip|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|cunnus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|peža|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|pyzda|f}}, {{t-|lt|putė|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|пичка|f|tr=píčka}}, {{t-|mk|минџа|f|tr=míndža}}, {{t-|mk|слива|f|tr=slíva}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|puki}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|għoxx|f}}
* Middle English: {{tø|enm|cunte}}, {{tø|enm|queynt}}, {{tø|enm|queynte}}, {{tø|enm|quoniam}}, {{tø|enm|privitee}}, {{tø|enm|privite}}, {{tø|enm|kent}}, {{tø|enm|cunt}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|fitte|c}}, {{t+|no|kuse|c}}, {{t+|no|mus|c}}
* Papiamentu: {{tø|pap|tonto|f}}, {{tø|pap|coño|m}}, {{tø|pap|donchin|f}}
* Pashto: {{t-|ps|کس|tr=kos|sc=ps-Arab}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کس|tr=kos|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t-|fa|سوراخ کس|tr=surâx-e kos|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pizda|f}}, {{t+|pl|cipa|f}}, {{t-|pl|cipsko|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|boceta}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pizdă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пизда|f|tr=pizdá}}, {{t+|ru|манда|f|tr=mandá}}, {{t+|ru|писька|f|tr=pís'ka}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|pit|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|пичка|f}}, {{t-|sh|пизда|f}}, {{t-|sh|пица|f}}, {{t-|sh|минџа|f}}, {{t-|sh|риба|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|pička|f}}, {{t-|sh|pizda|f}}, {{t-|sh|pica|f}}, {{t-|sh|mindža|f}}, {{t-|sh|riba|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|piča|f}}, {{t-|sk|kunda|f}}, {{t-|sk|pizda|f}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|pička|f}}, {{t-|sl|pizda|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|chocha|f}}, {{t+|es|chucha|f}}, {{t+|es|coño|m}}, {{t+|es|concha|f}}, {{t+|es|cuca|f}}, {{t+|es|chocho|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fitta|c}}
* Tatar: {{t-|tt|бетэк|tr=betek|sc=Cyrl}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|หี|tr=hĕe|sc=Thai}}, {{t-|th|หอย|tr=hŏi|sc=Thai}}, {{t-|th|โมะ|tr=mó|sc=Thai}}, {{t-|th|จิ๋ม|tr=jĭm|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|am}}, {{t+|tr|amcık}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|пизда|f|tr=pyzdá|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|uk|піська|f|tr=pís'ka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|چوت|f|tr=čūt|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|lồn}}
* Volapük: {{t-|vo|kunud}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unpleasant or objectionable person}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|doos}}, {{t-|af|kont}}, {{t-|af|poes}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|píča|f}}, {{t+|cs|kunda|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fisse|c}} ''only females''
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mulkku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|con|m}}, {{t+|fr|salaud|m}}, {{t+|fr|connard}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fotze|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μουνί|n|tr=muni|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|μουνάκι|n|tr=munáki|sc=Grek}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|चूत|tr=choot|sc=Deva}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|tussa|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|stronza|f}} [[stronzo]] {{m}}, {{t+|it|bastardo|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|fitte|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pizda|f}}, {{t+|pl|cipa|f}}
* Seraiki: {{tø|skr|chutha|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|пизда|f}}, {{t-|sh|пичка|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|pizda|f}}, {{t-|sh|pička|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|piča|f}}, {{t-|sk|kunda|f}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|pizda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fitta|c}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|چوت|tr=choot|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t-|ur|کس|tr=kuss|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t+|ur|پھدی|tr=phuddi|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|la}}: (2): [[cunnus]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t+|pt|buceta}}, {{t+|pt|xoxota}}, {{t+|pt|xana}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: (2,4,5,6): [[pizdă]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: (2) [[puta]] {{f}}, (3) [[cabrón]] {{m}}, {{t+|es|hijo de puta|m}}, {{t-|es|malparido|m}}, {{t+|es|coñazo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Cnut#English|Cnut]]
* [[unct#English|unct]]

====References====
{{R:Partridge 1961}}

[[Category:English swear words]]

[[cs:cunt]]
[[cy:cunt]]
[[de:cunt]]
[[et:cunt]]
[[el:cunt]]
[[es:cunt]]
[[eu:cunt]]
[[fa:cunt]]
[[fr:cunt]]
[[ko:cunt]]
[[io:cunt]]
[[it:cunt]]
[[hu:cunt]]
[[mg:cunt]]
[[my:cunt]]
[[nl:cunt]]
[[pl:cunt]]
[[ru:cunt]]
[[simple:cunt]]
[[fi:cunt]]
[[sv:cunt]]
[[ta:cunt]]
[[th:cunt]]
[[tr:cunt]]
[[vi:cunt]]
[[zh:cunt]]