{{wikipedia|dab=curse}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-curse.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)s|-ɜː(r)s]]

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} {{term|curs}}
<!-- Is the following supposed to be the etymology for the menstrual sense?
“Courses” monthly flows - Bailey’s Dictionary 1761
-->

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A supernatural [[detriment]] or [[hindrance]].
# A vulgar epithet.
# {{UK|slang}} A woman's monthly period.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|supernatural detriment}}
* Bosnian: [[kletva#Bosnian|kletva]] {{f}}, [[pokletstvo#Bosnian|prokletstvo]] {{n}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|клетва|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|проклятие|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese: [[詛咒]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kletba|f}}, {{t-|cs|prokletí|n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|forbandelse|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vloek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kirous}}
* French: {{t-|fr|mauvais sort}}, {{t+|fr|malédiction}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fluch|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κατάρα|f|tr=katára|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[קללה]] (qlala) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|átok}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|maledizione|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|呪い|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: [[lanet]] {{f}}, [[nalet]] {{f}}, {{KUchar|[[جوێن]]}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[uexcaitoa]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|forbannelse|m}}
* Portuguese: [[maldição]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|blestem|n}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[клетва#Serbian|клетва]] {{f}}, [[проклетство#Serbian|проклетство]] {{n}}
*: Latin: [[kletva#Serbian|kletva]] {{f}}, [[prokletstvo#Serbian|prokletstvo]] {{n}}
* Slovenian: [[kletev]] {{f}}, [[prekletstvo]] {{m}}
* [[Sumerian]]: [[ezeru]]
* Swedish: [[förbannelse]] {{c}}
* Tamil [[சாபம்]] (SAbam)
* [[Telugu]]: [[శాపం]] (SaapaM)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|vulgar epithet}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|psovka|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|псувня|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nadávka|f}}, {{t-|cs|klení|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kirous}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κατάρα|f|tr=katára|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[קללה]] (qlala) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imprecazione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: [[lanet]] {{f}}, [[nalet]] {{f}}
* Norwegian
*: Bokmål: {{t-|no|ed|m}}, {{t-|no|banneord|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|eid|m|xs=Nynorsk}}, {{t-|nn|bannord|n|xs=Nynorsk}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[псовка#Serbian|псовка]] {{f}}
*: Latin: [[psovka#Serbian|psovka]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[svordom]] {{c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[తిట్టు]] (tiTTu)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[curse of Scotland]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|curs|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To place a curse upon (a person or object).
# {{transitive}} To speak or shout a vulgar curse or epithet at someone or something.
# {{intransitive}} To use offensive language.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|intransitive|use offensive language}} [[swear]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make something cursed}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|prokleti}}, {{t-|bs|ukleti}}, {{t-|bs|kleti}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|proklít}}, {{t-|cs|proklínat}}
* Dutch: [[vervloeken]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kirota}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maudire}}
* German: [[fluchen]] (engl. [[swear]]), [[verfluchen]]
* Hebrew: [[לקלל]] (leqalel)
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|átkozni}}
* Italian: [[maledire]] {{ref|3}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|forbanne}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|amaldiçoar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|blestema}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[проклети#Serbian|проклети]], [[уклети#Serbian|уклети]], [[клети#Serbian|клети]]
*: Latin: [[prokleti#Serbian|prokleti]], [[ukleti#Serbian|ukleti]], [[kleti#Serbian|kleti]]
* Swedish: [[förbanna]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[శపించు]] (Sapimchu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to speak a vulgar curse}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|psovati}}, {{t-|bs|opsovati}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|klít}}, {{t-|cs|nadávat}}
* Dutch: [[vloeken]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiroilla}}
* Hebrew: [[לקלל]] (leqalel)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[imprecare]] {{ref|4}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[псовати#Serbian|псовати]], [[опсовати#Serbian|опсовати]]
*: Latin: [[psovati#Serbian|psovati]], [[opsovati#Serbian|opsovati]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|svära}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|use offensive language}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiroilla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|svära}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
* [[bless]]

===References===
: 1-4. {{note|1}}{{note|2}}{{note|3}}{{note|4}} ''[http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese]''. Turin: Paravia, 2003. Edited in collaboration with Oxford University Press. [[W:Wikipedia:book sources| ISBN 8839551107]].

----

==Romanian==

===Noun===
'''curse''' {{f|p}}

# {{plural of|cursă|lang=Romanian}}

[[fr:curse]]
[[io:curse]]
[[it:curse]]
[[ku:curse]]
[[hu:curse]]
[[ru:curse]]
[[fi:curse]]
[[sv:curse]]
[[ta:curse]]
[[te:curse]]
[[vi:curse]]
[[zh:curse]]