{{wikipedia|dab=curve (disambiguation)|curve}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/kɜːv/}}, {{SAMPA|/k3:v/}}
* {{a|GenAM}} {{IPA|/kɝv/}}, {{SAMPA|/k3`v/}}
* {{audio|en-us-curve.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(ɹ)v}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|curvus||lang=la|bent, curved}}

===Adjective===
'''curve'''

# {{obsolete}} Bent without angles; crooked; curved.
#: ''a curve line''
#: ''a curve surface''

====Translations====
''See'' '''[[crooked]]''' ''and'' '''[[curved]]'''

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A gentle [[bend]], such as in a road.
# A simple figure containing no [[straight]] portions and no [[angle]]s; a [[curved]] [[line]].
# {{analyticgeom}}  A [[continuous map]] from a one-[[dimensional]] [[space]] to a multidimensional space.
# {{geometry}} A one-dimensional figure of [[non-zero]] length; the [[graph]] of a continuous map from a one-dimensional space.
# {{alggeom}} An [[algebraic curve]]; a [[polynomial]] [[relation]] of the planar coordinates.
# {{topology}} A one-dimensional [[continuum]].
# (''informal, usually in plural'' '''curves''') The attractive shape of a woman's body.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from curve (noun)}}
* [[algebraic curve]]
* [[Bézier curve]]
* [[closed curve]]
* [[cosine curve]]
* [[curvy]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[dragon curve]]
* [[elliptic curve]]
* [[Lissajous curve]]
* [[Jordan curve]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[nonsimple curve]]
* [[open curve]]
* [[pedal curve]]
* [[plane curve]]
* [[pursuit curve]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[simple curve]]
* [[sine curve]]
* [[space curve]]
* [[spherical curve]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|gentle bend}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[kurwe]]
* [[Catalan]]: revolt, {{m}}
* Dutch: [[curve]] {{f}}, [[kromming]] {{f}}, [[bocht]] {{m}} (''road'')
* Esperanto: [[kurbo]], [[kurbiĝo]], [[sinuo]], [[ĝirejo]], [[vojturno]] (''road'')
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaarre}},  {{t+|fi|kurvi}},  {{t+|fi|mutka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courbe|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kurve|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|עקימה|'aqima}} {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|curva|f}}
* Russian: [[изгиб]] {{m}}, [[кривая]] {{f}}, [[поворот]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|curva|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kurva|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[వంపు]] (vampu)
* Turkish: {{t|tr|kıvrım}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geometry: one-dimensional figure}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[kurwe]]
* [[Catalan]]: corba, f
* Czech: {{t-|cs|křivka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|curve|f}}, {{t-|nl|kromme|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kurbo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaari}}, {{t-|fi|käyrä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courbe|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Linie|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|görbe}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|curva|f}}
* Japanese: [[曲線]] ([[きょくせん]], kyokusen)
* Russian: {{t|ru|кривая|f|tr=krivája|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: [[krivulja]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|curva|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kurva|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|eğri}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|algebraic curve|[[algebraic curve#Translations|algebraic curve]]}}
{{trans-top|informal: usually in plural: attractive features of a woman}}
<!--Note: put INFORMAL translations in this table, where these exist-->
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kurvit|p}}
* Hebrew: [[חיטובים]] (khit'uvym) {{m|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|curvas|f|p}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|kıvrım}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|informal: attractive shape of a woman's body}}
<!--Note: put INFORMAL translations in this table, where these exist-->
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[kurwe]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[corbes]] {{f|p}}
* Dutch: [[rondingen]] {{m|p}}, [[figuur]] {{f}}
* Finnish: [[kurvi]] (''usually in plural'' kurvit),
* Italian: [[curva]] {{f}} (''usually plural'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[изгибы]] {{p}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|curvas|f}}
* Swedish: [[kurva]] {{c}} (''usually plural''), [[figur]] {{c}} (''usually singular'')
* [[Telugu]]: [[వంపులు]] (vampulu), [[వొంపులు]] (vompulu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|curv|es}}

# {{transitive}} To bend; to crook.
#: ''to '''curve''' a line''
#: ''to '''curve''' a pipe''
# {{transitive}} To cause to swerve from a straight course.
#: ''to '''curve''' a ball in pitching it''
# {{intransitive}} To bend or turn gradually from a given direction.
#: ''the road '''curves''' to the right''

====Translations====

{{trans-top|bend, crook}}
* Dutch: [[krommen]], [[plooien]] (''pipe''), [[buigen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|käyristää}}
* Irish: [[cuar]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|curvare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[구부리다]] (guburida)
* Russian: [[изгибать]], [[гнуть]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|böja}}, {{t+|sv|kröka}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|kıvrılmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to swerve from a straight course}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bend or turn gradually from a given direction}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afbuigen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaartaa}}
* Irish: [[cuar]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|curvare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[曲がる]]}} ({{Jpan|[[まがる]]}}, magaru)
* Korean: [[구부러지다]] (gubureojida)
* Russian: [[изгибаться]], [[гнуться]]
* Swedish: [[böja]] (sig)
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[kurva]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''curve''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|curva|lang=it}}

===Adjective===
'''curve'''

# feminine plural of [[curvo]]

----

==Lojban==

===Etymology===
''In Lojbanized spelling.''
* Chinese: '''cue'''n — [[純]] ([[纯]]) [chún]
* English: pi'''ur''' — pure
* Hindi: '''cu'''d'''v'''a — [[शुद्ध]] [śuddha]
* Spanish: p'''ur''' — [[puro]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'ʃurve/|lang=jbo}}

===Gismu===
{{jbo-gismu|cuv|}}

# [[pure]]; x1 is pure/unadulterated/unmitigated/simple in property x2 (ka).

====Related terms====
* [[prane]]
* [[jinsa]]
* [[manfo]]
* [[sampu]]
* [[sepli]]
* [[traji]]
* [[lumci]]
* [[xukmi]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈkur.ve]|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
'''curve''' {{f|p}}

# {{plural of|curvă|lang=Romanian}} [[whores]]

----

==Spanish==

===Verb===
{{es-verb-form|curvar}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=1|number=singular|[[curvar]]}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=2|formal=yes|number=singular|[[curvar]]}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=3|number=singular|[[curvar]]}}

[[ar:curve]]
[[de:curve]]
[[et:curve]]
[[fa:curve]]
[[fr:curve]]
[[ko:curve]]
[[hy:curve]]
[[io:curve]]
[[it:curve]]
[[kn:curve]]
[[lo:curve]]
[[hu:curve]]
[[nl:curve]]
[[no:curve]]
[[pl:curve]]
[[ru:curve]]
[[simple:curve]]
[[fi:curve]]
[[ta:curve]]
[[te:curve]]
[[tr:curve]]
[[vi:curve]]
[[zh:curve]]