{{also|CUT|cứt|čut}}
==English==

{{rank|real|eye|sun|496|cut|everything|six|comes}}

===Etymology===
ME ''cutten'', ''kytten'', ''ketten'', ''kitten'', OE ''*cyttan''; from {{etyl|gem}} *{{term||kut-}} (Cf. Norwegian [[kutte]]), akin to OSw ''kotta'' "to cut", ON ''kuti'' "little knife"

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kʌt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"kVt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-cut.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌt}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-more}}

# {{context|participial adjective}} Having been '''cut'''.
# [[reduce|Reduced]].
#: ''The [[pitcher]] threw a '''cut''' [[fastball]] that was slower than his usual [[pitch]].''
#: '''''Cut''' brandy is a liquor made of brandy and hard grain liquor.''
# {{context|of a gem}} [[carve|Carve]]d into a [[shape]]; not [[raw]].
# {{rfc-sense}} {{cricket|of a shot}} Played with a [[horizontal]] [[bat]] to hit the ball backward of [[point]].
# {{bodybuilding}} Having muscular [[definition]] in which individual groups of [[muscle]] fibers stand out among larger muscles.
#* '''1988''', Steve Holman, "Christian Conquers Columbus", ''[[w:Iron Man (magazine)|Ironman]]'' '''47 (6):''' 28-34.
#*: Or how 'bout Shane DiMora?  Could he possibly get rip-roaring '''cut''' this time around?
# {{informal}} [[circumcised|Circumcised]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having been cut}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t|af|gesnyde|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skære|alt=skåret}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snijden|alt=gesneden}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|leikattu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coupé}}, {{t+|fr|coupée}}, {{t+|fr|coupés}}, {{t+|fr|coupées}}
* German: {{t+|de|geschnitten}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתוך|tr=khatúkh}}
* Swedish: [[klippt]], [[skuren]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|reduced}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|leikattu}}, {{t|fi|vähennetty}}, {{t|fi|kevennetty}}, {{t|fi|heikennetty}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|geschnitten}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a gem, carved into a shape}}
* Danish: [[slibe|slebet]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hioa|alt=hiottu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taillé}}
* German: {{t+|de|geschnitten}}, {{t+|de|geschliffen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cricket, played with a horizontal bat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in bodybuilding, having individual groups of muscle fibers stand out}}
* German: {{t+|de|geschnitten}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: circumcised}}
<!-- Only colloquial expressions here! Add normal language terms to "circumcised" -->
: ''See also:'' '''[[circumcised]]'''
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[besneden]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An opening resulting from cutting.
#: ''Look at this '''cut''' on my finger!''
# The act of [[cutting]].
#: ''He made a fine '''cut''' with his sword.''
# The [[result]] of cutting.
# A [[share]] or [[portion]].
#: ''The lawyer took a '''cut''' of the profits.''
# {{Cricket}} A [[batsman]]'s shot played with a [[swing]]ing motion of the bat, to hit the ball [[backward]] of [[point]].
# {{Cricket}} [[Sideways]] [[movement]] of the ball through the [[air]] caused by a [[fast bowler]] [[impart]]ing [[spin]] to the ball.
# The act or right of dividing a deck of playing cards.
#: ''The player next to the dealer makes a '''cut''' by placing the bottom half on top.''
# The manner or style a garment is fashioned in.
#: ''I like the '''cut''' of that suit.''
# A [[slab]], especially of meat.
#: ''That’s our finest '''cut''' of meat.''
# {{fencing}} An attack made with a chopping motion of the blade, landing with its edge or point.
# A deliberate [[snub]], typically a refusal to return a [[bow]] or other acknowledgement of acquaintance.
# A definable part, such as an individual [[song]], of a [[recording]], particularly of [[commercial]] records, [[audio]] [[tape]]s, [[CD]]s, etc.
#: ''The drummer on the last '''cut''' of their CD is not identified.''
# {{archaeology}} A [[truncation]], a context that represents a moment in time when other archaeological [[deposit]]s were removed for the creation of some feature such as a [[ditch]] or [[pit]].

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[budget cut]]
* [[director's cut]]
* [[final cut]]/[[make the final cut]]
* [[fine cut]]
* [[jump cut]]/[[jump-cut]]
* [[line cut]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[make the cut]]
* [[pay cut]]
* [[power cut]]
* [[price cut]]
* [[rose cut]]
* [[shortcut]]
* [[tax cut]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|opening resulting from cutting}}
* Danish: [[snitsår]] {{n}}, [[skramme]] {{c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snee}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|haava}}, {{t-|fi|viilto}}, {{t-|fi|viiltohaava}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schnitt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתך|m|tr=khétekh}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|taglio|m}}, {{t+|it|incisione|f}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|برین|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skärsår|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of cutting}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|hug|n}}
* Finnish: [[leikkaus]], [[viilto]], [[sivallus]]
* German: {{t+|de|schneiden|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חיתוך|m|tr=khitúkh}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|taglio|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|snitt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|result of cutting}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|snit|n}}
* Finnish: [[leikkaus]], [[viilto]], [[sivallus]], [[haava]]
* German: {{t+|de|Schnitt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|taglio|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|snitt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cricket, batsman's shot played with a swinging motion}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cricket, sideways movement of the ball through the air}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cutting of a deck of playing cards}}
* Danish: [[aftagning]] {{c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|nosto}}
* German: {{t+|de|abheben}}, {{t+|de|schneiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|alzata|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|giv|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|manner or style a garment is fashioned in}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|snit|n}}, {{t-|da|mode|c}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|snit}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|leikkaus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schnitt|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|taglia|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lower than normal rate}}
* Danish: [[nedsættelse]] {{c}}
* Finnish: [[leikata|leikattu]], [[alentaa|alennettu]] ([[hinta]])
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|baissé}}, {{t+|fr|diminué}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riduzione|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slab of meat}}
* Danish: [[udskæring]] {{c}}, [[stykke]] {{n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stuk|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pala}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתיכה|f|tr=khatikhá}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|taglio|m}}, {{t+|it|pezzo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in fencing, an attack made with a chopping motion of the blade}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|deliberate snub}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[tăietură]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కోత]] (kOta), [[గాటు]] (gaaTu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|cuts|cutting|cut}}

# To [[perform]] an [[incision]], for example with a [[knife]].
#: ''I '''cut''' the skin on my arm.''
# To [[divide]] with a [[knife]], [[scissors]], or another [[sharp]] [[instrument]].
#: ''Would you please '''cut''' the cake?''
# To [[separate]] from [[prior]] [[association]]; to remove a portion of a [[recording]] during [[editing]].
#: ''Travis was '''cut''' from the team.''
# To [[enter]] a [[queue]] in the wrong place.
#: ''One student kept trying to '''cut''' in front of the line.''
# {{context|cinema, audio}} To [[cease]] [[record]]ing activities.
#: ''After the actors read their lines, the director yelled "'''Cut'''!"''
# To [[reduce]], especially intentionally.
#: ''They're going to '''cut''' salaries by fifteen percent.''
# To [[form]] or [[shape]] by cutting.
#: ''I have three diamonds to '''cut''' today.''
# To [[intersect]] or [[cross]] in such a way as to [[divide]] in [[half]] or nearly so.
#: ''This road '''cuts''' right through downtown.''
# {{cricket}} To make the ball spin sideways by running one's [[finger]]s down the side of the ball while bowling it.
# {{informal}} To not [[attend]] a [[class]], especially when not [[permit]]ted.
#: ''I '''cut''' fifth period to hang out with Angela.''
# To change [[direction]] suddenly.
#: ''The football player '''cut''' to his left to evade a tackle.''
# To [[divide]] a [[pack]] of [[playing card]]s into two
#: ''If you '''cut''' then I'll deal.''

====Related terms====
{{der-top|Terms derived from the verb ''cut''}}
* [[cut a deal]]
* [[cut and run]]
* [[cut down]]
* [[cut for someone's size]]
* [[cut from the same cloth]]
* [[cut in]]
* [[cut in line]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[cut like a knife]]
* [[cut loose]]
* [[cut off]]
* [[cut one's losses]]
* [[cut out]]
* [[cut someone some slack]]
* [[cut to the quick]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[cut up]]
* [[cutthroat]]
* [[cutting edge]]
* [[cutting remark]]
* [[undercut]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to perform an incision}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|sny|xs=Afrikaans}}
* [[Amharic]]: {{tø|am|መቁረጥ|tr=mäquräṭ|sc=Ethi}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|جرح|alt=جَرَحَ|tr=jaraHa}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտրել|tr=ktrel}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|tallar}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|切|tr=qiē|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: [[skære]], [[snitte]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tranĉi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couper}},  {{t|fr|inciser}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|cortar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|einschneiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתך|tr=khatákh}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tagliare}},  {{t+|it|incidere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|切る}} ({{t+|ja|きる}}, kiru)
* Latin: {{t|la|inseco}},  {{t-|la|incido}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ciąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cortar}},  {{t|pt|incisar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|tăia}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t-|rm|tagliar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|резать|tr=rézat’}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cortar}},  {{t-|es|incidir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skära}}
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[gǂháá]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to divide with a sharp instrument}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|sny|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|قطع|alt=قَطَعَ|tr=qaTa3a}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կտրատել|tr=ktratel}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|tallar}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|切|tr=qiē|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: [[udskære]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tranĉi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couper}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|cortar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|schneiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתך|tr=khatákh}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|bain|xs=Irish}} {{i|grass, hay, etc.}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tagliare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|切る}} ({{t+|ja|きる}}, kiru)
* Latin: {{t-|la|seco}}, {{t-|la|interseco}}, {{t-|la|curto}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cortar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|tăia}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t-|rm|tagliar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|разрезать|tr=razrézat’}} {{pf}}, {{t|ru|разрезать|tr=razrezát’}} {{impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cortar}}
* Swedish: [[skära]] (''with knife''), [[klippa]] (''with scissors'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to separate from prior association}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|sny|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտրել|tr=ktrel}}
* Danish: [[udelukke]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikata}}
* German: {{t+|de|trennen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|remover}}, {{t+|pt|retirar}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|retirar}}
* Swedish: [[utesluta]] (''from a team''), [[klippa bort]] (''remove a portion during editing of a tape'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to enter a queue in a wrong place}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտրել|tr=ktrel}}
* Danish: [[snyde]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|etuilla}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|横切る}} ({{t+|ja|よこぎる}}, yokogiru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|furar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|colar}}
* Swedish: [[tränga]] sig
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cease recording}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couper}}
* German: {{t+|de|klappe}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cortar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cortar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|klippa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reduce}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտրել|tr=ktrel}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|কাটা|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* Danish: [[skære]], [[beskære]], [[nedsætte]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikata}}
* German: {{t+|de|beschneiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|減らす}} ({{t+|ja|へらす}}, herasu), {{t+|ja|削減する}} ({{t+|ja|さくげんする}}, sakugen suru), {{t+|ja|カットする}} (katto suru)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|diminuir}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|recortar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to form or shape by cutting}}
* Danish: [[slibe]] (''gems''), [[tilskære]], [[tilhugge]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikata}}, {{t+|fi|hioa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tallar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to intersect dividing into half}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտրել|tr=ktrel}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skære}}, {{t-|da|krydse}}
* Finnish: [[jakaa]] ([[kahtia]])
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|schneiden}}, {{t+|de|trennen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atravessar}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|atravesar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cricket, to make the ball spin sideways}}
* Danish: [[snitte]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial, not to attend a class}}
<!-- Only colloquial expressions here, please!  -->
* Danish: [[pjække]] fra
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lintsata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sécher}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הבריז|tr=hivríz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|サボる}} ({{t+|ja|さぼる}}, saboru)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|matar}}, {{t+|pt|faltar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|faltar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to change direction suddenly}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|mutkitella}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חתך|tr=khatákh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to divide a pack of playing cards}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couper}}
* German: {{t+|de|schneiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|alzare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cortar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[pret]]
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[сека]]
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[rezati]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[snijden]], [[afsnijden]], [[knippen]]
* {{ttbc|Dyirbal}}: [[nudin]], [[gunban]], [[banyin]] ([[Guwal]]); [[jalnggan]], [[bubaman]] ([[Jalnguy]])
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[tranĉi]]
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[vág]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[potong]], [[kerat]], [[iris]], [[memotong]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[croi]]
* {{ttbc|Serbian}}: [[iseći]] (1,2,3,7,8), [[rez]] (5), [[spustiti]] (6), [[sniziti]] (6), [[pobeći]] (10)
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కోయు]] (kOyu) (1,2), [[తెంచు]] (teMchu)(3), [[కోత వేయు]] (kOta vEyu) (6), [[ఖండించుకొను]] (khaMDiMchukonu) (8)
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English simple past forms]]
[[Category:English verbs which are their own past participle]]
[[Category:Meats]]

----

==Kiput==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|North Sarawak|likud|lang=kyi}} from {{proto|Malayo-Polynesian|likuj|lang=kyi}}

===Noun===
{{infl|kyi|noun}}

# [[back]] (of the body)

[[Category:kyi:Anatomy]]

[[ar:cut]]
[[et:cut]]
[[el:cut]]
[[es:cut]]
[[fr:cut]]
[[gl:cut]]
[[ko:cut]]
[[hy:cut]]
[[io:cut]]
[[id:cut]]
[[it:cut]]
[[kk:cut]]
[[ku:cut]]
[[lo:cut]]
[[lt:cut]]
[[li:cut]]
[[hu:cut]]
[[ml:cut]]
[[nl:cut]]
[[ja:cut]]
[[pl:cut]]
[[pt:cut]]
[[ru:cut]]
[[simple:cut]]
[[fi:cut]]
[[sv:cut]]
[[ta:cut]]
[[te:cut]]
[[th:cut]]
[[tr:cut]]
[[uk:cut]]
[[vi:cut]]
[[zh:cut]]