==English==
{{wikipedia|Cuteness|Cute}}

===Etymology===
Shortened from {{m|en|acute}}, originally “keenly perceptive or discerning, shrewd” (1731). Meaning transferred to “pretty, fetching” by US students (slang) [[circa|c.]]1834. Meaning drifted further to describe the pleasing attraction to features usually possessed by the young.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kjuːt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-cute.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uːt|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Possessing physical features, [[behavior]]s, personality traits or other properties that are mainly attributed to [[infant]]s and small or [[cuddly]] animals; [[e.g.]] fair, dainty, round, and soft physical features, disproportionately large eyes and head, playfulness, fragility, helplessness, curiosity or shyness, innocence, affectionate behavior.
#: ''Our reaction to '''cute''' attributes is understood as the way nature ensures mammals care for their young.''
# Generally, [[attractive]] or [[pleasing]], especially in a [[youthful]], [[dainty]], [[quaint]] or fun-spirited way.
#: ''Let's go to the mall and look for '''cute''' girls.''
# [[affected|Affected]] or [[contrived]] to charm; [[mince#Verb|mincingly]] clever; [[precious]]; [[cutesy]].
#: ''The actor's performance was too '''cute''' for me. All that mugging to the audience killed the humor.''
#: ''Don't get '''cute''' with me, boy!''
# Mentally [[keen]] or [[discerning]] (''See also [[acute]]'')
#: {{syn|en|clever|shrewd}}
#* '''ca. 1850.''' Anonymous, "Turpin Hero" (broadside ballad, probably originally dating to 18th century)
#*: Then [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dick_Turpin Turpin] being so very '''cute,'''
#*: He hid his money in his boot.
#: '''''Cute''' trick, but can you do it consistently?''

====Usage notes====
Though all the above usages are understood outside US & Canada, they are rarely used spontaneously except to characterise or parody American usage.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|having features mainly attributed to infants and small or cuddly animals}} {{l|en|endearing}}
* {{sense|attractive or pleasing in a youthful, dainty, quaint or fun-spirited way}} {{l|en|pretty}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|lang=en|title=Terms derived from ''cute''|cuteness|cutely|cuten|cutesy|cutie|cute as a button|cute hoor|meet cute}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having features mainly attributed to infants and small or cuddly animals}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|oulik}}
* American Sign Language: {{t|ase|H@Chin-PalmBackFingerUp Flatten}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فَاتِن}}, {{t|ar|قَشِيب}}, {{t|ar|جَذَّاب}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|դուրեկան}}, {{t+|hy|սիրուն}}, {{t+|hy|սիրունատես}}, {{t+|hy|պուպուշ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|мил}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|bufó}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|可愛|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|可爱|tr=kě'ài|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|roztomilý|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|nuttet}}, {{t+|da|sød}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schattig}}, {{t+|nl|koddig}}, {{t+|nl|lief}}, {{t+|nl|zoetjes}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|beleta}}, {{t+|eo|ĉarma}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|søtur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suloinen}}, {{t+|fi|söpö}}, {{t|fi|lutunen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mignon}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|საყვარელი}}, {{t|ka|სასიამოვნო}}
* German: {{t+|de|goldig}}, {{t+|de|niedlich}}, {{t+|de|süß}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|nani}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חמוד|m|tr=khamud}}, [[חמודה]] (khamuda) {{g|f}} (1 - ''with comical touch,'' 2)
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|प्यारा|tr=pyārā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|aranyos}}, {{t+|hu|helyes}}, {{t+|hu|cuki}}, {{t+|hu|édes}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|sætur|m}}, {{t|is|snotur|m}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|miniona}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|cakep}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|sympathic}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|carino}}, {{t+|it|grazioso}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|可愛い|tr=[[かわいい]], kawaii}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|귀엽다}} {{qualifier|predicative}}, {{t+|ko|귀여운}} {{qualifier|attributive}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|симпатична|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|comel}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|søt}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ناز|tr=nâz|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|ملوس|tr=malus|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|słodki|m}}, {{t+|pl|uroczy|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|fofo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|drăguț}}, {{t+|ro|drăgălaș}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ми́лый}}, {{t+|ru|хоро́шенький}}, {{t+|ru|симпати́чный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|bòidheach}}, {{t|gd|grinn}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|sladak|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|biddicchiu}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|srčkan}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lindo|m}}, {{t+|es|precioso|m}}, {{t+|es|gracioso}}, {{t+|es|chulo}}, {{t|es|pituso}}, {{t+|es|bonito|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gullig}}, {{t+|sv|söt}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|அன்பான|sc=Taml}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|น่ารัก}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|སྙིང་རྗེ་པོ}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|معصوم}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|attractive or pleasing in a youthful, dainty, quaint or fun-spirited way}}
* Arabic:
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|عسول|tr='asul|sc=Arab}}
*: South Levantine Arabic: {{t|ajp|أمور|m}}, {{t|ajp|أمورة|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|привлекателен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|maco}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leuk}}, {{t+|nl|geestig}}, {{t+|nl|guitig}}, {{t+|nl|olijk}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|beleta}}, {{t+|eo|ĉarma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|joli}}, {{t+|fr|mignon}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|uʻi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|beleta}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|imut}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|sympathic}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|carino|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|urzekający|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bonitinho}}, {{t+|pt|giro|m}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|симпати́чный}}, {{t+|ru|привлека́тельный}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|söt}}, {{t+|sv|fin}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|dễ thương}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dated: mentally keen or discerning; clever, shrewd}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|knap}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|glic}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sprytny|m}}, {{t+|pl|cwany|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|klipsk}}, {{t+|sv|slug}}, {{t+|sv|listig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Appearance]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|da|en|cute}}.

===Adjective===
{{da-adj}}

# {{lb|da|youthful}} cute, [[adorable]]
#* '''2010''', Kirsten Sonne Harild, ''Pony & Co. 4 - Lises forvandling'', Gyldendal A/S ({{ISBN|9788702096095}})
#*: „De er sådan lidt tegneserieagtige, ikke? Ligesom shetlændere. '''Cute'''.
#* '''2010''', Jesper Staunstrup, ''At være fremmed...'', BoD – Books on Demand ({{ISBN|9788771141788}}), page 187
#*: Dyret er altså bare ikke '''''cute'''''... Det er en stor rottelignende dræber, der er altædende.
# {{lb|da|youthful}} [[sweet]], [[attractive]] (of a person, especially a prospective partner)
#* '''2012''', {{w|Hanne-Vibeke Holst}}, ''Hjertets renhed'', Gyldendal A/S ({{ISBN|9788702103397}})
#*: Han er '''cute'''. Frederik var rimelig '''cute'''.
#* '''2014''', Ina Bruhn, ''Maja og Dancer: Hestene på Ponygården 3'', Rosinante & Co ({{ISBN|9788763836562}})
#*: Han hedder Elvin. Er det ikke et totalt '''cute''' navn?
#* '''2014''', {{w|Dennis Jürgensen}}, ''Hår(d)'', Tellerup A/S ({{ISBN|9788758811284}})
#*: Hun var '''cute''', det var hun faktisk, og jeg prøvede desperat ikke at tænke på min isse.
#* '''2013''', Anders Haahr Rasmussen, ''Modellen: #dayinthelife'', Art People ({{ISBN|9788771376135}})
#*: Josephine Skriver har tidligere haft problemer med sit runde, '''cute''' ansigt og har det for så vidt stadigvæk.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|adorable}} {{l|da|nuttet}}, {{l|da|kær}}

----

==Italian==
{{wikipedia|lang=it}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|it|la|cutis}}.

===Noun===
{{it-noun|f}}

# {{lb|it|anatomy}} [[cutis|Cutis]], [[skin]] (of a person)

====Synonyms====
* {{l|it|pelle}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|it|cutaneo}}

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
{{la-noun-form|cute}}

# {{inflection of|cutis||abl|s|lang=la}}

----

==Middle English==

===Noun===
{{head|enm|noun}}

# {{alternative form of|lang=enm|cote|id=coot|t=coot}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ro|la|cōtem}}, accusative of {{m|la|cōs}}. The expected result would have been {{m|ro||*coate}} in Romanian, but may have been influenced by {{m|ro|cuțit}} and {{m|ro|ascuți}}.<ref>{{R:DEX}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ute|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|f|cute}}

# [[whetstone]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|ro|gresie}}

===References===
<references/>