==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈsaɪkəl/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"saIk@l/}}
* {{audio|en-us-cycle.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪkəl}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{term|cyclus|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|κύκλος|tr=kyklos|lang=grc}}, reduplicated form of a {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*kʷékʷlos||circle, wheel}}. Cognates include Sanskrit {{term|sc=Deva|चक्र|tr=cakrá|lang=sa}}, Latin {{term|colus|lang=la}}, Old English {{term|sc=unicode|hweol|hwēol|lang=ang}} (English {{term|wheel|lang=en}}), English {{term|ancillary|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An interval of space or time in which one set of events or phenomena is completed.
# A complete [[rotation]] of anything.
# A process that returns to its beginning and then repeats itself in the same sequence.
# The members of the sequence formed by such a process.
# {{context|music|lang=en}} In musical [[set theory]], an '''interval cycle''' is the set of [[pitch class]]es resulting from repeatedly applying the same [[interval class]] to the starting pitch class.
#: ''The interval '''cycle''' C4 consists of the pitch classes 0, 4 and 8; when starting on E, it is realised as the pitches E, G# and C.''
# A series of poems, songs or other works of art
#: ''The '''Ring of the Nibelung''' is a '''cycle''' of four operas by Richard Wagner, the famous nineteenth-century German composer.''
# A [[programme]] on a washing machine, dishwasher, or other such device.
#: ''Put the washing in on a warm '''cycle'''.''
# A [[pedal]]-powered vehicle, such as a unicycle, bicycle, or tricycle; or, motorized vehicle that has either two or three wheels, such as a motorbike, motorcycle, motorized tricycle, or motortrike.
# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} A [[single]], a [[double]], a [[triple]], and a [[home run]] hit by the same player in the same game.
#: ''Jones hit for the '''cycle''' in the game.''
# {{context|graph theory|lang=en}} A [[closed]] [[walk]] or [[path]], with or without repeated [[vertices]] allowed.

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|baseball sense}} As in the example sentence, one is usually said to {{term||hit for the cycle}}. However, other uses also occur, such as {{term||hit a cycle}} and {{term||complete the cycle}}.

====Derived terms====
* [[cyclic]]
* [[acyclic]]

====Translations====
{{trans-see|vehicle|bicycle}}
{{trans-top|complete rotation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|оборот|m}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|cicle|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|周期|tr=zhōuqí|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|cyklus}}, {{t-|da|kredsløb}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cyclus|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ciklo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tsükkel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tour|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zyklus|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κύκλος|tr=kyklos|m}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|ciklo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|timthriall|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ciclo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|周期|tr=しゅうき, shūki}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|cyclus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|cikls|m}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|cykl|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ciclo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|ciclu|n}}, {{t-|ro|rotație|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цикл|m|tr=cikl}}, {{t+|ru|оборот|m|tr=oborót|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ciclo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cykel|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çevirim}}, {{t+|tr|devir}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|ציקל|m|tr=tsikl|sc=Hebr}}, {{t-|yi|ציקלען|p|tr=tsiklen|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|process}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|цикъл|m}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|cicle|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|cyclus|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ciklo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tsükkel}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|sykli}}, {{t+|fi|kierros}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cycle|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zyklus|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κύκλος|tr=kyklos|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מחזור|m|tr=makhzor}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|ciklo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|timthriall|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ciclo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|周期|tr=しゅうき, shūki}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|cyclus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|cikls|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ciclo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|ciclu|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цикл|m|tr=cikl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ciclo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cykel|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çevirim}}, {{t+|tr|devir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|series of poems etc.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|цикъл|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|cyklus|m}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|sari}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sarja}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zyklus|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κύκλος|tr=kyklos|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|ciclu|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цикл|m|tr=cikl|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cykel|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|program on a washing machine}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|цикъл|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|(vaske)-program}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|programma|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ohjelma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cycle|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Programm|n}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ciclo|m}}, {{t|it|programma|m}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|cikls|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цикл|m|tr=cikl|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|program|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|program}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|graph theory: closed (directed) walk or path}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|cyklus|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|cycl|ing}}

# To ride a [[bicycle]] or other [[#Noun|cycle]].
# To go through a cycle or to put through a cycle.
# {{context|electronics|lang=en}} To turn [[power]] off and back on
#: ''Avoid '''cycling''' the device unnecessarily.''
# {{context|ice hockey|lang=en}} To maintain a team's possession of the puck in the offensive zone by handling and passing the puck in a loop from the boards near the goal up the side boards and passing to back to the boards near the goal
#: ''They have their '''cycling''' game going tonight.''

====Related terms====
* [[recycle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to ride a cycle}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|карам колело}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|騎車|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|骑车|tr=qí chē|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|騎自行車|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|骑自行车|tr=qí zìxíngchē|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|cykle}}, {{t-|da|køre på cykel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fietsen}}, {{t+|nl|rijden}} {{qualifier|general}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|bicikli}}
* Finnish: [[ajaa]] [[polkupyörä]]llä, {{t-|fi|pyöräillä}}, {{t-|fi|polkupyöräillä}}
* French: {{t-|fr|faire du vélo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rad fahren}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ποδηλατώ|tr=podilató}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|נסע באופניים|tr=nasá b'ofanáyim}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|自転車に乗る|tr=じてんしゃにのる, jitensha-ni noru}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|ездить на велосипеде|tr=jézdit' na velosipéde}} {{qualifier|abstract}}, {{t-|ru|ехать на велосипеде|tr=jéxat' na velosipéde}} {{qualifier|concrete}}, {{t-|ru|кататься на велосипеде|tr=katát'sja na velosipéde}} {{qualifier|for entertainment}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|cykla}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|saikulön}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to go through a cycle or to put through a cycle}}
* French: [[passer]] par un cycle
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to turn power off and back on}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|tænde for}}/{{t-|da|slå til}} (turn on), {{t-|da|slukke for}}/{{t-|da|slå fra}} (turn off)
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: [[inschakelen|in-]] en [[uitschakelen]], [[aanzetten|aan-]] en [[uitzetten|uit-]]/[[afzetten]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[leccy#English|leccy]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-cycle.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/sikl/|lang=fr}}, {{X-SAMPA|/sikl/}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|LL.|fr}} {{term|cyclus|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|cycle}}

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
{{la-noun-form|cycle}}

# {{inflection of|cyclus||voc|s|lang=la}}

[[ar:cycle]]
[[cs:cycle]]
[[cy:cycle]]
[[et:cycle]]
[[el:cycle]]
[[eo:cycle]]
[[fa:cycle]]
[[fr:cycle]]
[[ko:cycle]]
[[io:cycle]]
[[id:cycle]]
[[it:cycle]]
[[kn:cycle]]
[[hu:cycle]]
[[mg:cycle]]
[[ml:cycle]]
[[my:cycle]]
[[nl:cycle]]
[[pl:cycle]]
[[ru:cycle]]
[[simple:cycle]]
[[fi:cycle]]
[[sv:cycle]]
[[ta:cycle]]
[[tt:cycle]]
[[te:cycle]]
[[tr:cycle]]
[[uk:cycle]]
[[vi:cycle]]
[[zh:cycle]]