{{also|DAG|Dag|dağ|Dağ}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
'''dag'''

# {{SI-unit-abb|deca|gram|[[mass]]}}

----

==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dæɡ/}}
* {{rhymes|æɡ}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} [[dagge]], of uncertain (probably Germanic) origin, cognate with (Middle) Dutch [[dag]], [[dagge]], dagh.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A hanging end or shred, in particular a long [[point]]ed [[strip]] of [[cloth]] at the edge of a piece of [[clothing]], or one of a row of decorative strips of cloth that may [[ornament]] a [[tent]], [[booth]] or [[fairground]].

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|daglock}} or ''daggle-lock''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[dangle|dangling]] [[lock]] of sheep’s wool matted with [[dung]].
#* '''1998''', ''Wool: Volume 8, Issue 10'', as published by the Massey Wool Association:
#*: He was one of the first significant private buyers of wool in New Zealand, playing a major part in bringing respectability to what at first was a very diverse group. He pioneered the pelletising of '''dag''' waste.
#* '''1999''', G. C. Waghorn, N. G. Gregory, S. E. Todd, and R. Wesselink, ''Dags in sheep; a look at faeces and reasons for '''dag''' formation'', published in the ''Proceedings of the New Zealand Grassland Association'' 61, on pages 43&ndash;49:
#*: The development of '''dags''' first requires some faeces to adhere to wool, but this is only the initial step in accumulation.
#* '''2004''', Mette Vaarst, ''Animal health and welfare in organic agriculture'', page 323:
#*: [...] and the use of [[tanniferous]] forages may affect faecal consistency, reducing the formation of '''dag''' (faeces-coated wool).
#* '''2006''', in the compilation of the ''Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture, volume 46, issues 1-5'', published by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (Australia), on page 7:
#*: [Researchers] note that free pellets are characteristic of healthy sheep and that if sheep consistently produced free pellets, wool staining and '''dag''' formation would not occur.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[daglock]], [[taglock]]
* [[dagging]]s
* [[dung tag]]
** '''1989''', Paula Simmons, ''Raising Sheep the Modern Way'', revised edition, Storey Communications Inc., Pownal Vermont, page 212
**: Remove dung tags, and do not tie them in with the fleece.
<!-- move this to [[dung tag]], once it exists-->

=====Derived terms=====
* [[daggy]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|dag|g|ed}}

# To [[shear]] the hindquarters of a sheep in order to remove dags or prevent their formation.
#* '''2007''', Graeme R. Quick, ''Remarkable Australian Farm Machines: Ingenuity on the Land'',
#*: Blade shearers could shear, crutch, mules or '''dag''' sheep anywhere they were needed.
#* '''2010''' January 29, Emma Partridge, Stock Journal, [http://sj.farmonline.com.au/news/state/niche/general/richie-foster-a-cut-above-the-rest/1735635.aspx ''Richie Foster a cut above the rest''],
#*: After learning how to crutch at 13, he could '''dag''' 400 sheep in a day by the spring of 1965 and earned himself more than just a bit of pocket money.

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|dague||lang=fro}} (from {{etyl|pro}} [[dague]], of uncertain origin, perhaps from Vulgar {{etyl|la}} *{{term||daca|Dacian knife}}, from the Roman province [[Dacia]] (roughly modern Romania); the ending is possibly the faintly pejorative [[-ard]] suffix, as in [[poignard]] 'dagger'); cognate with {{term|dagger}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[skewer]].
# A [[spit]], a [[sharpen]]ed [[rod]] used for [[roast]]ing food over a fire.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|dag|g|ed}}

# {{transitive}} To skewer food, for roasting over a fire
# {{transitive}} To [[cut]] or [[slash]] the edge of a [[garment]] into dags

===Etymology 4===
{{etystub|Related to {{term|dang}} and {{term|damn}}?}}

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{US|informal}} Expressing [[shock]], [[awe]] or [[surprise]]; used as a general [[intensifier]].

===Etymology 5===
{{back-form|daggy}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{Australia|_|slang|New Zealand|_|derogatory|_|slang}} One who [[dress]]es unfashionably or without apparent care about [[appearance]].
#* '''2004''' July 25, Debbie Kruger, Melbourne Weekly Magazine, [http://www.debbiekruger.com/writer/freelance/craig.html ''All the World's a Stage''],
#*: Now, wide-eyed and unfashionably excited ("I’m such a '''dag'''!" she remarks several times), she has the leading role of Viola in the Bell Shakespeare Company’s production of Twelfth Night, opening on August 10 at the Victorian Arts Centre Playhouse.
#* '''2006''' September 26, [[w:TV Week|TV Week]], [http://tvweek.ninemsn.com.au/article.aspx?id=147623 ''Klancie Keough eliminated''],
#*: What did you think about Mark calling you a '''dag'''?
#*: To me a '''dag''' is a person who doesn't have a lot of pride in their appearance or the way they present themselves — the way they sing and how they hold themselves basically. But it didn't really bother me. He said, "You're such a '''dag''', you're cool." I took it as "you're a laidback person". The way they cut it and edited it made it sound on TV like I was grumpy about it, but I wasn't. It was pretty funny how it came across.
#* '''2009''' November 14, [[w:Daily Telegraph (Australia)|Daily Telegraph]], [http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/entertainment/movies/catherine-zeta-hollywoods-biggest-dag/story-e6frexli-1225797488609 ''Catherine Zeta - Hollywood's biggest '''dag'''?''],
#*: SHE is one of Hollywood's most beautiful leading ladies and has access to any fashion designers, so then why is Catherine Zeta-Jones dressing like a bag lady?
#* '''2010''' January 15, Michael Dwyer, [[w:The Age|The Age]], [http://www.theage.com.au/news/entertainment/music/talented-dag-plucks-up-the-cool/2010/01/14/1263058323455.html ''Talented '''dag''' plucks up the cool''],
#*: A graduate of film studies in New York, May has had a hand in editing two of his three videos. Each casts him as a bespectacled '''dag''' in a world of glamour.

=====Related terms=====
* [[daggy]] (''adj'')

=====Synonyms=====
* [[dork]], [[loser]], [[nerd]]

=====Usage notes=====
* May be used as form of [[endearment]], perhaps with the intention of indicating [[fellowship]] or [[sympathy]] with regard to apparent rejection of societal [[norms]].

===Etymology 6===
{{initialism}} for {{term|directed acyclic graph}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{mathematics}} A [[directed acyclic graph]]; an [[ordered pair]] <math>(V, E)</math> such that <math>E</math> is a [[subset]] of some [[partial ordering relation]] on <math>V</math>.

===Anagrams===
* [[GAD#English|GAD]], [[Gad#English|Gad]], [[gad#English|gad]], [[GDA#English|GDA]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Etymology 1===
Germanic: from {{etyl|nl|af}} {{term|dag|lang=nl}} 'day', cognate with German Tag. See below

====Noun====
{{af-noun|dae||daggie|daggies}}

# a [[day]]

===Etymology 2===
Germanic: from {{etyl|nl|af}} [[goedendag]] 'goodday; goodbye' (from [[goed]] 'goed, pleasant' + [[dag]] 'day'), see above.

====Interjection====
{{infl|af|interjection}}

# [[hello]]!
# [[bye-bye]]!

===Etymology 3===
Germanic: from {{etyl|nl|af}} [[gedachte]] 'thought', from [[gedacht]], the past participle of [[denken]] 'to think'.

====Verb====
{{infl|af|verb|past tense|gedag}}

# to [[think]], [[ponder]]
# to [[consider]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[gedagte]]

[[Category:af:Time]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|dagr|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|dagaz|day|lang=da}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|dʰegʷh-|to burn|lang=da}}.

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|e}}

# [[day]]

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|e}}

[[Category:da:Time]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɑx|lang=nl}}
* {{a|BE}} {{IPA|lang=nl|/dɑç/}}
* {{a|NL}} {{IPA|lang=nl|/dɑx/}}
*: {{audio|Nl-dag.ogg|audio (Netherlands)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{term|dag|lang=odt}}, from {{proto|Germanic|dagaz|lang=nl}}. Cognate with German ''[[Tag]]''.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|g1=m|g2=f|pl=dagen|dim=dagje}}

# A [[day]] (notably 24 hours, especially between the midnights)
# (''absolute use, definite article only: '''de dag''''') The period of time between [[sunrise]] and [[sunset]], [[daytime]].

=====Synonyms=====
* (24 hours) [[etmaal]] {{n}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{top4}}
* [[Bevrijdingsdag]] {{m}}
* [[dageraad]] {{m}}
* [[daglicht]] {{n}}
* [[goedendag]] {{m}}
* [[herdenkingsdag]] {{m}}
* [[Koninginnedag]] {{m}}
* [[Koningsdag]] {{m}}
* [[rouwdag]] {{m}}
* [[sterfdag]] {{m}}
* [[vandaag de dag]]
* [[verjaardag]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

====Interjection====
{{infl|nl|interjection}}!

# [[hello]], short for {{term|goedendag||good day|lang=nl}} 'goodday; goodbye'
# [[goodbye]], same shortening

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|bye}} [[daag]], [[ciao]], [[salut]] (French), [[saluut]] {{qualifier|Flemish}}, [[saluutjes]] {{qualifier|Flemish}}, [[vaarwel]], [[tot ziens]], [[tot hoors]], [[tot horens]], [[doei]] {{qualifier|Netherlands}}, [[doeg]] {{qualifier|Netherlands}}
* {{sense|hello}} [[hallo]], [[hoi]], [[heei]]/[[hey]], [[goedendag]]/[[goeiendag]], [[jow]] {{qualifier|familiar, Flemish}}, [[hoi]] {{qualifier|Netherlands}}

===Etymology 2===
Germanic, cognate with English [[#English|dag]] 'hanging end, shred'.

====Alternative forms====
* [[dagge]], [[dagh]] (all obsolete)

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|daggen|}}

# A piece of [[rope]], used to [[punish]] [[sailor]]s with, on the spot or in [[running the gauntlet]]
# A [[line]] used to fasten young sailors while training [[board]]ing a hostile ship or climbing the [[rigging]]

=====Synonyms=====
* (punitive rope) [[dagtouwtje]] {{n}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[handdag]]

[[Category:Dutch irregular nouns]]
[[Category:nl:Time]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dɛaː/|lang=fo}}

===Noun===
'''dag'''

# accusative singular form of '''{{l|fo|dagur}}'''

====Derived terms====
* [[góðan dag]]!

[[Category:Faroese noun forms]]

----

==Gothic==

===Romanization===
{{got-rom}}

# {{got-romanization of|𐌳𐌰𐌲}}

----

==Indonesian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|nl|id}} {{term|dag|lang=nl}}, from [[goedendag]] 'goodday'.

===Interjection===
'''dag'''

# [[hello]]

[[Category:Indonesian interjections]]

----

==Middle Low German==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|gml|dach}} (more common spelling marking pronunciation rather than morphology)

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|osx|gml}} {{term|dag|lang=osx}}, from {{proto|Germanic|dagaz|lang=gml}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dʌx/|lang=gml}}

===Noun===
{{infl|gml|noun|g=m|genitive|dages|dative|dage|accusative|dag|plural|dage}}

# [[day]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|no}} {{term|dagr|lang=non}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun|g=m}}

# A [[day]]
# The period of time between sunrise and sunset, [[daytime]]

====Inflection====

{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m1|nn-class=m1}}

====References====
* {{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet}}

[[Category:no:Time]]

----

==Old Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Germanic|dagaz|lang=odt}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|odt|noun|g=m}}

# [[day]]

====Descendants====
* Dutch: {{l|nl|dag}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|dagr|lang=non}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|dɑː(g)|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-dag.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# A [[day]]
# The period of time between sunrise and sunset, [[daytime]].

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

===See also===
* [[i dag]]
* [[dygn]]

[[Category:sv:Time]]

[[af:dag]]
[[ast:dag]]
[[br:dag]]
[[cs:dag]]
[[cy:dag]]
[[da:dag]]
[[de:dag]]
[[et:dag]]
[[el:dag]]
[[es:dag]]
[[fa:dag]]
[[fr:dag]]
[[gl:dag]]
[[ko:dag]]
[[hy:dag]]
[[hr:dag]]
[[io:dag]]
[[id:dag]]
[[is:dag]]
[[it:dag]]
[[ka:dag]]
[[sw:dag]]
[[ku:dag]]
[[lo:dag]]
[[lt:dag]]
[[li:dag]]
[[hu:dag]]
[[mg:dag]]
[[my:dag]]
[[nl:dag]]
[[no:dag]]
[[pl:dag]]
[[pt:dag]]
[[ru:dag]]
[[sq:dag]]
[[fi:dag]]
[[sv:dag]]
[[ta:dag]]
[[th:dag]]
[[tr:dag]]
[[vi:dag]]
[[vo:dag]]
[[wa:dag]]
[[zh:dag]]