{{also|DAMP|Damp}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=damp (disambiguation)|damp}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|damp|pos=noun}} and {{m|enm|dampen|t=to stifle; suffocate}}. Akin to Low German {{m|osx|damp}}, {{cog|nl|damp}}, and {{cog|de|Dampf||vapor, steam, fog}}, {{cog|is|dampi}}, {{cog|sv|damm||dust}}, and to {{cog|de|dampf|}} imperative of {{m|de|dimpfen||to smoke}}. Also {{der|en|enm|dampen||to extinguish, choke, suffocate}}. Ultimately all descend from {{der|en|gem-pro|*dampaz}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|dămp}}, {{IPA|en|/dæmp/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-damp.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|æmp}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# In a state between dry and wet; {{l|en|moderately}} {{l|en|wet}}; {{l|en|moist}}.
#* '''25 January 2017''', Leena Camadoo writing in the ''{{w|The Guardian}}'', ''[https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/fairtrade-partner-zone/2017/jan/25/dominican-banana-producers-at-sharp-end-of-climate-change Dominican banana producers at sharp end of climate change]''
#*: Once the farms have been drained and the dead plants have been cut down and cleared, farmers then have to be alert for signs of black sigatoka, a devastating fungus which flourishes in '''damp''' conditions and can destroy banana farms.
#* '''1697''', {{w|John Dryden}} translating {{w|Virgil }}, ''{{w|Aeneid}}'' Book VI
#*: She said no more. The trembling Trojans hear,
#*: O'erspread with a '''damp''' sweat and holy fear.
#: ''The lawn was still '''damp''' so we decided not to sit down.''
#: ''The paint is still '''damp''', so please don't touch it.''
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} [[despondent|Despondent]]; [[dispirited]], [[downcast]].
#* '''27 July 2016''', Jane O’Faherty in ''The {{w|Irish Independent}}'', [http://www.independent.ie/sport/horse-racing/galway-races/monarchs-and-prison-officers-win-big-on-second-race-day-34915769.html Monarchs and prison officers win big on second race day]''
#*: Though Travis's 'Why does it always Rain on Me' boomed around the stands, there were few '''damp''' spirits in Galway on day two of the races.
#* '''1667''', John Milton, ''Paradise Lost'', Book 1, ll. 522-3:
#*: All these and more came flocking; but with looks / Down cast and '''damp'''.
# Permitting the possession of [[alcoholic]] beverages, but not their [[sale]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2002|title=A Fine and Bitter Snow |author=Dana Stabenow |page=32 |ISBN=0312989474 |passage=The Roadhouse was twenty-seve miles down the road from Niniltna, nine feet and three inches outside the Niniltna Native Association's tribal jurisdiction, and therefore not subject to the dry law currently in effect. Or was it '''damp'''? Kate thought it might have changed, yet again, at the last election, from dry to '''damp''', or maybe it was from wet to '''damp'''. }}

====Usage notes====
'''Damp''' commonly is used for disagreeable conditions and '''moist''' often is used for agreeable conditions:
* {{ux|en|'''damp''' clothes}}
* {{ux|en|moist cake}}
* {{ux|en|a '''damp''' compress (hot or cold)}}
* {{ux|en|a '''moist''', sweaty brow}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|moist}}
* {{l|en|thoan}}/{{l|en|thone}} {{qual|dialect|}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|dampen}}
* {{l|en|dampness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Being in a state between dry and wet}}
* Arabic:
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|مبلول|tr=mablūl}}
* Atayal: {{t|tay|msmiy}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|вільготны}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вла́жен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|humit}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|潮濕|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|潮湿|tr=cháoshi|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|濕潤|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|湿润|tr=shīlùn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vlhký}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fugtig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|klam}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|malseketa}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kostea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|humide}}, {{t+|fr|moite}}, {{t+|fr|mouillé}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|umid}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|lento}}, {{t+|gl|húmido}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ნოტიო}}, {{t|ka|ნესტიანი}}, {{t|ka|ტენიანი}}
* German: {{t+|de|feucht}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|νοτερός|m}}
* Iban: {{t|iba|embap}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|humida}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|lembap}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|umido}}, {{t+|it|bagnato}}, {{t+|it|madido}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|湿っぽい|tr=しめっぽい, shimeppoi|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|湿る|tr=しめった, shimetta|alt=湿った|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Kurdish:
*: Central Kurdish: {{t|ckb|نِماوی}}, {{t|ckb|نمدار}}, {{t|ckb|شێدار}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ūvidus}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|mitrs}}, {{t|lv|mikls}}, {{t|lv|valgans}}, {{t|lv|valgs}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|drėgnas}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|lembap}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|mucre|m|f}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|نمناک|tr=namnâk|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wilgotny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|úmido|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|umed}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сыро́й|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|vlažan}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|húmedo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fuktig}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ชุ่มชื้น}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|nemli}}, {{t+|tr|rutubetli}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|сирий}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|ǁn̥âʻm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Dejected}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|унил}}, {{t+|bg|потиснат}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αποθαρρυμένος|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|Appendix:Word formation verb -en noun -ness}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# [[moisture|Moisture]]; [[humidity]]; [[dampness]].
#* {{circa|1602}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|All's Well That Ends Well|All’s Well That Ends Well}}'', Act II, Scene{{nbsp}}1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=allswell&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: Ere twice in murk and occidental '''damp'''
#*: Moist Hesperus hath quench’d his sleepy lamp,
#* '''1764''', {{w|Elizabeth Griffith}}, ''Amana'', London: W. Johnston, Act V, p.{{nbsp}}49,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004796053.0001.000]</sup>
#*: What means this chilling '''damp''' that clings around me!
#*: Why do I tremble thus!
#* '''1848''', {{w|Elizabeth Gaskell}}, ''{{w|Mary Barton}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}10,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/2153/2153-h/2153-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Unceasing, soaking rain was falling; the very lamps seemed obscured by the '''damp''' upon the glass, and their light reached but to a little distance from the posts.
#* '''1928''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Orlando: A Biography}}'', Penguin, 1942, Chapter 5, p.{{nbsp}}160,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20141209/html.php]</sup>
#*: But what was worse, '''damp''' now began to make its way into every house—'''damp''', which is the most insidious of all enemies, for while the sun can be shut out by blinds, and the frost roasted by a hot fire, '''damp''' steals in while we sleep; '''damp''' is silent, imperceptible, ubiquitous.
#* '''2005''', {{w|Kazuo Ishiguro}}, ''{{w|Never Let Me Go (novel)|Never Let Me Go}}'', London: Faber, 2010, Chapter{{nbsp}}10, p.{{nbsp}}115,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/isbn_9780571272129]</sup>
#*: We sometimes kept our Wellingtons on the whole day, leaving trails of mud and '''damp''' through the rooms.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[fog|Fog]]; fogginess; [[vapor]].
#* {{RQ:Milton Paradise Lost|book=X|passage=Night {{...}} with black air / Accompanied, with '''damps''' and dreadful gloom.}}
#* '''1810''', {{w|Percy Bysshe Shelley}} and Elizabeth Shelley, “Warrior” in ''{{w|Original Poetry by Victor and Cazire}}'', London: John Lane, 1898, p.{{nbsp}}57,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/originalpoetryb00garngoog]</sup>
#*: Her chilling finger on my head,
#*: With coldest touch congealed my soul—
#*: Cold as the finger of the dead,
#*: Or '''damps''' which round a tombstone roll—
#* '''1887''', {{w|Thomas Hardy}}, ''{{w|The Woodlanders}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}40,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/482/482-h/482-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Summer was ending: in the daytime singing insects hung in every sunbeam; vegetation was heavy nightly with globes of dew; and after showers creeping '''damps''' and twilight chills came up from the hollows.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} Dejection or [[depression]]; something that [[spoil]]s a [[positive]] emotion (such as [[enjoyment]], [[satisfaction]], [[expectation]] or [[courage]]) or a [[desire]]d activity.
#* '''1713''', {{w|Joseph Addison}}, ''{{w|Cato, A Tragedy}}'', London: Jacob Tonson, Act III, Scene 1, p.{{nbsp}}35,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004798045.0001.000]</sup>
#*: Ev’n now, while thus I stand blest in thy Presence,
#*: A secret '''Damp''' of Grief comes o’er my Thoughts,
#* '''1728''', George Carleton (attributed to {{w|Daniel Defoe}}), ''The Memoirs of an English Officer'', London: E. Symon, p.{{nbsp}}72,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004787619.0001.000]</sup>
#*: But though the War was proclaim’d, and Preparations accordingly made for it, the Expectations from all receiv’d a sudden '''Damp''', by the as sudden Death of King ''William''.
#* '''1769''', {{w|Edmund Burke}}, ''Observations on a Late State of the Nation'', London: J. Dodsley, p.{{nbsp}}33,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004807424.0001.000]</sup>
#*: It is in this spirit that some have looked upon those accidents, that cast an occasional '''damp''' upon trade.
#* '''1813''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''{{w|Pride and Prejudice}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}50,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/1342/1342-h/1342-h.htm]</sup>
#*: No sentiment of shame gave a '''damp''' to her triumph.
#* '''1850''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''{{w|David Copperfield}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}10,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/766/766-h/766-h.htm]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Mrs. Gummidge {{...}}, I am sorry to relate, cast a '''damp''' upon the festive character of our departure, by immediately bursting into tears {{...}}
#* '''1866''', {{w|James David Forbes}}, letter to A. Wills dated 2{{nbsp}}January, 1866, in ''Life and Letters of James David Forbes'', London: Macmaillan, 1873, p.{{nbsp}}429,<sup>[https://archive.org/stream/lifelettersofjam00shaiuoft]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I was concerned to hear from your brother that Mrs. Wills’ health had prevented her accompanying you to Sixt as usual. It must have thrown a '''damp''' over your autumn excursion {{...}}
# {{lb|en|archaic|or|historical|mining}} A gaseous product, formed in coal mines, old wells, pits, etc.
#* '''1733''', {{w|John Arbuthnot}}, ''An Essay Concerning the Effects of Air on Human Bodies'', London: Jacob Tonson, Chapter 1, p.{{nbsp}}19,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004888786.0001.000]</sup>
#*: There are sulphurous Vapours which infect the Vegetables, and render the Grass unwholsom to the Cattle that feed upon it: Miners are often hurt by these Steams. Observations made in some of the Mines in ''Derbyshire'', describe four sorts of those '''Damps'''.

====Derived terms====
{{der4|en
|afterdamp
|blackdamp
|chokedamp
|dampproof
|damp proofing
|damp sheet
|firedamp
|rising damp
|stinkdamp
|whitedamp}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|moisture}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|رُطُوبة|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|nb|fuktighet|m}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|вільготнасць}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|влага|f}}, {{t+|bg|влажност|f}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|humitat|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kosteus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|humidité|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Feuchtigkeit|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υγρασία|f}}, {{t+|el|νότος|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|raki|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|umidità}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Central Kurdish: {{t|ckb|نم}}, {{t|ckb|شێ}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|mucreu|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|umidade|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|vlaga|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|humedad|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fuktighet|c}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|nem, rutubet}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|волога}}, {{t|uk|вологість}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dejection}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|униние|n}}, {{t+|bg|потиснатост|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αποθάρρυνση|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|gaseous product}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|рудничен газ}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kaivoskaasu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|grisou|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|νοτίδα|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|grisù}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To [[dampen]]; to render [[damp]]; to make [[humid]], or moderately wet
#: {{syn|en|moisten}}
#: ''to '''damp''' cloth''
# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To [[put out]], as fire; to [[depress]] or [[deject]]; to [[deaden]]; to [[cloud]]; to [[check]] or [[restrain]], as action or vigor; to make [[dull]]; to [[weaken]]; to [[discourage]].
#* '''1857''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''Little Dorrit'' Book 1 Chapter 34
#*: My Lords, that I am yet to be told that it behoves a Minister of this free country to set bounds to the philanthropy, to cramp the charity, to fetter the public spirit, to contract the enterprise, to '''damp''' the independent self-reliance of its people.
#* '''1744''', {{w|Mark Akenside}}, ''The Pleasures of the Imagination''
#*: I do not mean to wake the gloomy form Of superstition dress'd in wisdom's garb, To '''damp''' your tender hopes 
#* {{rfdatek|en|Francis Bacon}}
#*: Usury dulls and '''damps''' all industries, improvements, and new inventions, wherein money would be stirring if it were not for this slug
#* {{rfdatek|en|Sir John Lubbock}}
#*: How many a day has been '''damped''' and darkened by an angry word!
#* {{rfdatek|en|Thomas Babington Macaulay}}
#*: The failure of his enterprise '''damped''' the spirit of the soldiers.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[suppress]] [[vibration]]s (mechanical) or [[oscillation]]s (electrical) by converting energy to heat (or some other form of energy).
#* [http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3238/is_200004/ai_n7935204]
#*: Hollow rollers '''damp''' vibration.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To render damp}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|овлажнявам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kostuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mouiller}}, {{t+|fr|humidifier}}
* German: {{t+|de|anfeuchten}}, {{t+|de|befeuchten}}, {{t+|de|abdampfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|inumidire}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|humedecer}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fukta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To put out, as fire}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|задушавам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sammuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|tukahduttaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|ersticken}}, {{t+|de|dämpfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|smorzare}}, {{t+|it|soffocare}}, {{t+|it|rallentare}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakanoti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To suppress vibrations or oscillations}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|заглушавам}}, {{t+|bg|затихвам}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|amortizi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vaimentaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|amortir}}
* German: {{t+|de|dämpfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|smorzare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|amortecer}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|amortiguar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dämpa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Old English: {{t-check|ang|dampen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=admp|M.D. Pa.}}

[[Category:en:Emotions]]
[[Category:en:Liquids]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|da|nds-de|Damp}} (compare {{m|nds-de|dampen}}, {{m|nds-de|Dampen|g=n}})

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|e}}

# [[steam]]

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|e}}

===Verb===
{{head|da|verb form}}

# {{imperative of|da|dampe}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|nl|/dɑmp/}}
* {{audio|nl|Nl-damp.ogg|Audio}}
* {{hyphenation|nl|damp}}
* {{rhymes|nl|ɑmp}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|nl|dum|damp}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-en|dampje}}

# [[vapour]] (''UK''), [[vapor]] (''US'')

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|nl|dampbad}}
* {{l|nl|dampkogel}}
* {{l|nl|gifdamp}}
* {{l|nl|waterdamp}}
* {{l|nl|zuurdamp}}
* {{l|nl|zwaveldamp}}

===Etymology 2===
{{nonlemma}}

====Verb====
{{head|nl|verb form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|dampen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|dampen}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==
{{wikipedia|lang=no}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|nb|nds-de|Damp}} (compare {{m|nds-de|dampen}}, {{m|nds-de|Dampen|g=n}})

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-m1}}

# [[steam]]
# [[vapour]] (UK), [[vapor]] (US)

=====Derived terms=====
{{Template:User:Donnanz/der3-u|lang=nb
|dampbåt
|damper
|[[dampkjele]], [[dampkjel]]
|damplokomotiv
|dampmaskin
|dampskip
|dampturbin
|vanndamp
}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|nb|dampe}}

===Etymology 2===
====Verb====
{{nb-verb-form}}

# {{imperative of|nb|dampe}}

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From {{der|nn|nds-de|Damp}} (compare {{m|nds-de|dampen}}, {{m|nds-de|Dampen|g=n}})

===Noun===
{{nn-noun-m1}}

# [[steam]]
# [[vapour]] (UK), [[vapor]] (US)

====Derived terms====
{{Template:User:Donnanz/der3-u|lang=nn
|dampbåt
|[[dampkjele]], [[dampkjel]]
|damplokomotiv
|dampmaskin
|dampskip
|dampturbin
}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|nn|dampe}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}

----

==Swedish==

===Verb===
{{head|sv|verb form}}

# {{sv-verb-form-past|dimpa}}