==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[daunger#Middle English|daunger]]'' "power, dominion, peril" from {{etyl|xno}} ''[[dangier#Anglo-Norman|dangier]]'' from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[dangier#Old French|dangier]]'', alteration of {{fro}} ''[[dongier#Old French|dongier]]'' (influenced by {{fro}} ''[[dam#Old French|dam]]'' "damage") from {{etyl|VL.}} *{{term|lang=la|domniarium|domniārium}} "authority, power" from {{etyl|la}} ''[[dominus]]'' "lord, master". Displaced native {{enm}} ''[[plight#Middle English|pliht, plight]]'' "danger" (from {{ang}} ''[[pliht#Old English|pliht]]'' "danger, peril, risk", compare {{ang}} ''[[pleon#Old English|plēon]]'' "to risk"), {{enm}} ''[[frese#Middle English|frese]]'' "danger, fear" (from or akin to {{osx}} ''[[fresa#Old Saxon|frēsa]]'' "peril, fear"), {{enm}} ''[[wathe#Middle English|wathe]]'' "peril, hurt" (from {{non}} ''[[vaði#Old Norse|vāði]]'' "peril, hurt").

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/deɪn.dʒə(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/deIn.dZ@(r\)/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈdeɪndʒɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"deIndZ@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-danger.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} Ability to [[harm]]; someone's dominion or power to harm or penalise. See In one's danger, below.
#: ''"You stand within his '''danger''', do you not?" (Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice'', 4:1:180)''
# {{obsolete}} [[liability|Liability]].
#* '''1526''', ''Bible'', tr. William Tyndale, Matthew V:
#*: Thou shalt not kyll. Whosoever shall kyll, shalbe in '''daunger''' of iudgement.
# {{obsolete}} Difficulty; sparingness.
# {{obsolete}} Coyness; disdainful behavior.
# {{obsolete}} A place where one is in the hands of the enemy.
# Exposure to liable [[harm]].
#: ''"'''Danger''' is a good teacher, and makes apt scholars" ([[w:William Hazlitt|William Hazlitt]], ''Table talk'').''
# An instance or cause of liable harm.
#: ''"Two territorial questions..unsettled..each of which was a positive '''danger''' to the peace of Europe" (''Times'', 5 Sept. 3/2).''
# Mischief.
#: ''"We put a Sting in him, / That at his will he may doe '''danger''' with" (Shakespeare, ''Julius Caesar'', 2:1:17).''

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:danger]]

====Derived terms====
* [[kicking in danger]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exposure to liable harm}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|خطر|m|alt=خَطَر|tr=khaTar}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|վտանգ|tr=vtang}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|опасност|f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[perill]]
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|opasnost|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nebezpečí|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fare|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gevaar|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|danĝero}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vaara}}, {{t+|fi|uhka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|danger|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gefahr|f}}, {{t+|de|Risiko|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κίνδυνος|m|tr=kíndinos}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|danje}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|veszély}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|bahaya|xs=Indonesian}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|contúirt|f|xs=Irish}}, {{t|ga|dainséar|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pericolo|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|niebezpieczeństwo|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|perigo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pericol}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|опасность|f|cs=Cyrl|tr=opásnost'}}
* Slovak: [[nebezpečie]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|peligro|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|hatari|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fara|c}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|perygl|m|xs=Welsh}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: [[خطر]] (khatar)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|instance or cause of liable harm}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|خطر|m|alt=خَطَر|tr=khaTar}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|վտանգ|tr=vtang}},  {{t|hy|սպառնալիք|tr=spaṙnalik’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|заплаха|f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|opasnost|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nebezpečí|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fare|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gevaar|n}},  {{t+|nl|bedreiging|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uhka}}, {{t+|fi|vaara}}
* French: {{t+|fr|danger|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gefahr|f}}, {{t-|de|Bedrohung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κίνδυνος|m|tr=kíndinos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|danje}}
* Hebrew: [[סכנה]] (sakana) {{f}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|bahaya|xs=Indonesian}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|contúirt|f|xs=Irish}}, {{t|ga|dainséar|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pericolo|m}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[په‌رێشان]]}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|niebezpieczeństwo|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|опасность|f|cs=Cyrl|tr=opásnost'}}, {{t+|ru|угроза|f|cs=Cyrl|tr=ugróza}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|hatari|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fara|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|hr}}: [[opasnost]]
* {{ttbc|fr}}: danger {{m}} (3)
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[לסכן]] (lesaken) (2)
* {{ttbc|hi}}: [[खत्रा]] (khatrā)
* {{ttbc|is}}: [[hætta]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[danjero]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[危ない]] (abunai)
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[위험]] (wi-hum)
* {{ttbc|ku}}: [[xeter]] {{f}} (3), [[talûke]] {{f}} (3), [[bive]] {{f}} (3), [[gef]] {{f}} (3), [[rîsk]] {{f}} (3)
* {{ttbc|lt}}: [[pavojus]] {{m}} (3)
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: [[危险]] (wēi-xiǎn)
* {{ttbc|no}}: [[fare]]
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[fær|fǣr]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|pl}}: [[zagrożenie]] {{n}} (3)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[perigo]] {{m}} (3)
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[peligro]] {{m}} (3)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{obsolete}} To claim liability.
# {{obsolete}} To imperil; to [[endanger]].
# {{obsolete}} To run the risk.

====Quotations====
{{seeCites}}

===Related terms===
* [[dungeon]]
* [[domain]]
* [[dame]]

===References===
* Oxford English Dictionary

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adegnr}}
* [[gander#English|gander]]
* [[garden#English|garden]]
* [[grande#English|grande]]
* [[ranged#English|ranged]]

----

==French==
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-danger.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[danger#English|danger]]
# [[jeopardy]] (danger of loss, harm, or failure)

====Derived terms====
* [[dangereux]]

===Anagrams===
* [[de rang#French|de rang]], [[grande#French|grande]]

[[ang:danger]]
[[ar:danger]]
[[zh-min-nan:danger]]
[[de:danger]]
[[et:danger]]
[[el:danger]]
[[es:danger]]
[[fr:danger]]
[[gl:danger]]
[[ko:danger]]
[[hy:danger]]
[[io:danger]]
[[it:danger]]
[[kn:danger]]
[[kk:danger]]
[[ku:danger]]
[[li:danger]]
[[hu:danger]]
[[ml:danger]]
[[my:danger]]
[[nl:danger]]
[[ja:danger]]
[[no:danger]]
[[pl:danger]]
[[ru:danger]]
[[simple:danger]]
[[fi:danger]]
[[sv:danger]]
[[ta:danger]]
[[te:danger]]
[[uk:danger]]
[[vi:danger]]
[[zh:danger]]