{{also|daniel|Daniël|Dániel}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|Δανιήλ|lang=grc}}, from {{etyl|he|en}} {{term|sc=Hebr|דניּאל|tr=daniyél|lang=he||God is my judge}}. Name borne from the prophet whose story is told in the Book of Daniel. [''Oxford Names Companion, The'']

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈdæn.jəl/|lang=en}} (male)
* {{enPR|Dăn'yel}} {{g|f}}, Dăn'yŭl
* {{rhymes|ænjəl|lang=en}}
{{book of the Bible|Book of Daniel}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# A book in the [[Old Testament]] of the [[Bible]].
# The prophet whose story is told in the Book of Daniel.
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version}}: ''[[Daniel]] 6: 16'':
#*: Then the king commanded, and they brought '''Daniel''', and cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto '''Daniel''', Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee.
#* ~'''1594''' William Shakespeare: ''The Merchant of Venice: Act IV, Scene I'':
#*: A '''Daniel''' come to judgment! yea, a '''Daniel'''! / O wise young judge, how do I honour thee!
# {{given name|male|from=Hebrew|}} in regular use since the Middle Ages.
#* '''1989''' [[w:John Irving|John Irving]], ''A Prayer for Owen Meany'', Corgi Books, ISBN 0552135399, page 55:
#*: "His name is '''Daniel''' Needham," my mother said. Whew! With what relief - down came my grandmother's hands! Needham was a fine old name, a founding fathers sort of name, a name you could trace back to the Massachusetts Bay Colony - if not exactly Gravesend itself. And '''Daniel''' was as '''Daniel''' as '''Daniel''' Webster, which was as good a name as a Wheelwright could wish for.
#*: "But he's called Dan," my mother added, bringing a slight frown to my grandmother's countenance.
# {{qualifier|rare}} {{given name|female|from=Hebrew}}.
# {{surname|[[patronymic]]|from=given names}}
# A location in the state of [[Wyoming]] in the [[United States]] (Zip Code: 83115). (From the U.S. Census Bureau 1990)

====Derived terms====
* [[Daniel come to judgement]]
* [[Daniel Island]]
* [[Daniels]]
* [[Danielsen]]
* [[Danielson]]
* [[Danielsville]]
* [[McDaniels]]

====Related terms====
* ''variants and pet forms'': [[Dan]], [[Danny]]
* ''feminine given names'': [[Dana]], [[Daniela]], [[Daniella]], [[Danielle]]
* [[Daniil]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|book of the Bible}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|دانيال|tr=danyāl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|但以理書|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|但以理书|tr=Dànyĭlĭ shū|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|Kniha Daniel}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Daniël}}, (Bijbel)Boek Daniël {{g|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|דָּנִיֵּאל|tr=daniyél|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Leabhar Dhainéil|m}}, {{t|ga|Dainéil|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ダニエル書|tr=danieru sho}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Daniēl|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|Даниел|tr=Dániel}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Ktieb Danjel}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Daniel}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دانیال|tr=Dâniyâl|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Daniel|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Daniel}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|biblical person}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|دانيال|tr=danyāl}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Դանիել}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|但以理|tr=Dànyĭlĭ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|達尼爾|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|达尼尔|tr=Dání'ĕr|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Daniel}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Daniel}}
* Dutch: [[Daniël]] {{g|m}}<!-- no pet forms please: [[Daan]] {{m}}-->
* Estonian: {{t|et|Taaniel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Daniel}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Daniel}}
* German: {{t+|de|Daniel}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Δανιήλ|m}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|Daniela}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|דָּנִיֵּאל|tr=daniyél|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Dainéil|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Daniele|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ダニエル|tr=Danieru}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Daniel}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|Даниел|tr=Dániel}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|Danial}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Danjel}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|Danieli}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Daniel}}
* Old Irish: {{t|sga|Dainiél|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دانیال|tr=Dâniyâl|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Daniel|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Дании́л|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Daniel}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Daniel}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Daniel|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|male given name}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|Daniel}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|دانيال|tr=danyāl}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Դանիել}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|ড্যানিয়েল|tr=Ḑêniẏel|sc=Beng}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|丹尼爾|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|丹尼尔|tr=Dānní'ĕr|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|達尼爾|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|达尼尔|tr=Dání'ĕr|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Daniel}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Daniel}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Daniël}}, [[Daneel]] {{g|m}}<!-- no pet forms please: [[Daan]] {{m}}-->
* Estonian: {{t|et|Tanel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Taneli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Daniel}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დანიელ}}
* German: {{t+|de|Daniel}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Ντάνιελ|m}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|Kaniela}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|דָּנִיֵּאל|tr=daniyél|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Dónall|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Daniele}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ダニエル|tr=danieru}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|Dannié|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Daniels|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Danielis}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|Даниел|tr=Dániel}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|Danial}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|Dannié|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Daniel}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دانیال|tr=Dâniyâl|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|دنیل|tr=Daniel|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Daniel|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Daniel|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Дании́л|m}}, {{t+|ru|Дани́ла|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|Дэ́ниел|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Daniel}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Daniel}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Deiniol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|grc}}: [[Δανιήλ]] (Daniel)
* {{ttbc|iu}}: [[ᑕᓃᓪ]] (Taniil)
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[다니엘]] (daniel)
* Maltese: {{t-check|mt|Danjel}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|Danez}}
* Slovak: {{t-check|sk|Daniel|m}}
* Slovene: {{t-check|sl|Daniel}}, {{t-check|sl|Danijel}}
* {{ttbc|uk}}: [[Данило]] (Danylo)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Aldine#English|Aldine]], [[alined#English|alined]], [[deal in#English|deal in]], [[dealin'#English|dealin']], [[denial#English|denial]], [[enlaid#English|enlaid]], [[inlead#English|inlead]], [[lead-in#English|lead-in]], [[nailed#English|nailed]]

[[Category:en:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:en:Individuals]]
[[Category:en:Wyoming]]

----

==Czech==

===Proper noun===
'''Daniel''' {{g|m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=cs}}, cognate with {{l|en|Daniel}}

[[Category:Czech proper nouns]]

----

==Danish==

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|prophet}}
# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|book of the Bible}}
# {{given name|male|lang=da}}

====Related terms====
* (''male given names'') {{l|da|Dan}}, {{l|da|Danni}}, {{l|da|Danny}}
* (''female given names'') {{l|da|Daniella}}, {{l|da|Danielle}}
* (''surnames'') {{l|da|Danielsen}}

===References===
* [http://www.danskernesnavne.navneforskning.ku.dk/ ] Danskernes Navne, based on CPR data: 20 632 males with the given name Daniel have been registered in Denmark between about 1890 (=the population alive in 1967) and January 2005, with the frequency peak in the 1990s. Accessed on 19 June 2011.

[[Category:da:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:da:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:da:Individuals]]

----

==Dutch==

===Proper noun===
{{nl-proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|prophet}}
# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|book of the Bible}}
# {{given name|male|lang=nl}}

====Related terms====
* ''male name variants'': [[Daan]], [[Dan]], [[Danni]], [[Danny]]
* ''feminine given names'': [[Daniella]], [[Danielle]]

===Anagrams===
* [[eiland#Dutch|eiland]], [[inlade#Dutch|inlade]], [[lade in#Dutch|lade in]]

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fi|[ˈdɑniel]}}
* {{hyphenation|Da|ni|el|lang=fi}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=fi}}.
#* '''1968''' [[w:fi:Venny Kontturi|Venny Kontturi]], ''Kankurikello'', Gummerus, page 32:
#*: Mutta nimeksi ei voitu laittaa '''Daniel''' niin kuin Kusti koko ajan oli uhkaillut ja äiti vastustellut. Äiti oli sanonut tosisssaan, ettei sitä nyt sellaista karhunpalvelusta voida lapsellensa tehdä että Taneliksi ristittäisiin. Toiset mukulat tuonnempana vain nimittelisivät ja rumaa hokua veisaisivat lapselle.
#*: Ja Viira tiesi kyllä, mitä viisua äiti ajoi takaa vaikka ei sanonut. Sitä niin, jossa hoettiin hävyttömästi, että tint tant taneli, tanelin pallia paleli.
#* '''2014''' [[w:fi:Antti Holma (näyttelijä)|Antti Holma]], ''Järjestäjä'', Otava, ISBN 978-951-27976-1, page 46:
#*: '''Daniel''' hänen nimensä oli. Tietenkin. Ei hän olisi voinut olla Jani tai Sami. Janit ovat kännykkäkaupassa töissä. Samitkin ovat kännykkäkaupassa töissä, mutta esimiesasemassa. Oliko hän joku tähti?

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-paperi|Daniel|a|i=0}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|fi|Taneli}}

[[Category:fi:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:fi:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:fi:Individuals]]

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun|m}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}

====Related terms====
* ''feminine names'': [[Danièle]], [[Danielle]]

[[Category:fr:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:fr:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:fr:Individuals]]

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=de}}.

====Related terms====
* ''feminine given name'': [[Daniela]]

[[Category:de:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:de:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:de:Individuals]]

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|book of the Bible}} {{l|la|Dan.}}

===Etymology===
From the {{etyl|grc|la}} {{term|Δανιήλ|Δᾱνῑήλ|lang=grc}}, from the {{etyl|he|la}} {{term|דָּנִיֵּאל||tr=daniyél|Daniel|lit=God is [my] judge|lang=he}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/ˈda.ni.eːl/|lang=la}}

===Proper noun===
{{la-proper noun|Daniēl||Daniēlis|m|third}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|[[w:Daniel|Biblical character]]|lang=la}}
# {{w|Book of Daniel}}

====Declension====
{{la-decl-3rd|num=sg|Daniēl|Daniēl}}

====Descendants====
* Swedish: {{l|sv|Daniel}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S|Dănĭēl}}

===External links===
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Prophetia Danielis|lang=la}}

[[Category:la:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:la:Books of the Bible]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|no}} {{term|Δανιήλ|lang=grc}}, from {{etyl|he|no}} {{term|sc=Hebr|דניּאל|tr=daniyél|lang=he||God is my judge}}. First recorded as a given name in Norway c. 1350.

===Proper noun===
{{head|no|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=no}}.

====Related terms====
* (''male given names'') {{l|no|Dan}}
* (''surnames'') {{l|no|Danielsen}}

===References===
* Kristoffer Kruken - Ola Stemshaug: Norsk personnamnleksikon, Det Norske Samlaget, Oslo 1995, ISBN 82-521-4483-7
* [http://www.ssb.no/navn/ ] Statistisk sentralbyrå, Namnestatistikk:15 404 males with the given name Daniel living in Norway on January 1st 2011, with the frequency peak around 1990. Accessed on April 29th, 2011.

[[Category:no:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:no:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:no:Individuals]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Pl-Daniel.ogg|Audio|lang=pl}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|pl|proper noun|g=m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=pl}}.

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|Daniel|Danielowie
|Daniela|Danielów
|Danielowi|Danielom
|Daniela|Danielowie
|Danielem|Danielami
|Danielu|Danielach
|Danielu|Danielowie
}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Proper noun===
{{pt-proper noun|m|f=Daniela}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical character}}
# {{given name|male|lang=pt|eq=Daniel}}

----

==Slovak==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|he|sk}} {{term|דניאל|lang=he}}.

===Proper noun===
{{sk-noun|g=m|gen=Daniela|pl=Danielovia|decl=chlap}}

# [[Daniel#English|Daniel]]

====Declension====
{{sk-decl-noun|Daniel|Daniela|Danielovi|Daniela|Danielovi|Danielom|Danielovia|Danielov|Danielom|Danielov|Danieloch|Danielmi}}

====Derived terms====
* [[Daňo]] {{g|m}}
* [[Danko]] {{g|m}}

[[Category:Slovak proper nouns]]

----

==Spanish==

===Proper noun===
{{head|es|proper noun|m}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}} {{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=es}}.
# The letter [[D]] in the [[:Appendix:Spanish phonetic alphabet|Spanish phonetic alphabet]]

[[Category:es:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:es:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:es:Individuals]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From Vulgate Latin {{term|Daniel|lang=la}}, ultimately of {{etyl|he|sv}} origin. First recorded as a given name in Sweden in 1246.

===Proper noun===
{{head|sv|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Daniel}}{{gloss|biblical book and prophet}}
# {{given name|male|lang=sv}}.

====Related terms====
* (''male given names'') {{l|sv|Dan}}
* (''female names'') {{l|sv|Daniela}}, {{l|sv|Daniella}}
* (''surnames'') {{l|sv|Danielsson}}

===References===
* Roland Otterbjörk: Svenska förnamn, Almqvist & Wiksell 1996, ISBN 91-21-10937-0
* [http://www.scb.se/Pages/NameSearch____259432.aspx] Statistiska centralbyrån and Sture Allén, Staffan Wåhlin, ''Förnamnsboken'', Norstedts 1995, ISBN 9119551622: 82 724 males with the given name Daniel living in Sweden on December 31st, 2010, with the frequency peak in the 1980s. Accessed on 19 June 2011.

[[Category:sv:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:sv:Books of the Bible]]
[[Category:sv:Individuals]]

[[ca:Daniel]]
[[cs:Daniel]]
[[de:Daniel]]
[[et:Daniel]]
[[el:Daniel]]
[[es:Daniel]]
[[fr:Daniel]]
[[ko:Daniel]]
[[is:Daniel]]
[[lv:Daniel]]
[[li:Daniel]]
[[hu:Daniel]]
[[no:Daniel]]
[[pl:Daniel]]
[[pt:Daniel]]
[[ru:Daniel]]
[[sr:Daniel]]
[[sh:Daniel]]
[[fi:Daniel]]
[[sv:Daniel]]
[[th:Daniel]]
[[tr:Daniel]]
[[zh:Daniel]]