{{see|-dar|där}}
==Bosnian==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{m}}

# [[gift]]

[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Catalan==

===Verb===
{{ca-verb-defective}}

# [[give]]

====Synonyms====
* [[donar]]

====Conjugation====
{{ca-conj-table
| dar
| [[dant]]
| [[dat]]
| —
| —
| —
| [[dem]]
| [[deu]]
| —<!--
-->| [[dava]]
| [[daves]]
| [[dava]]
| [[dàvem]]
| [[dàveu]]
| [[daven]]<!--
-->| [[daré]]
| [[daràs]]
| [[darà]]
| [[darem]]
| [[dareu]]
| [[daran]]<!--
-->| [[di]]
| [[dares]]
| [[da]]
| [[dàrem]]
| [[dàreu]]
| [[daren]]<!--
-->| [[daria]]
| [[daries]]
| [[daria]]
| [[daríem]]
| [[daríes]]
| [[darien]]<!--
-->| —
| —
| —
| [[dem]]
| [[deu]]
| —<!--
-->| [[des]]
| [[dessis]]
| [[des]]
| [[déssim]]
| [[déssiu]]
| [[dessin]]<!--
-->| —
| —
| [[dem]]
| [[deu]]
| —}}

===References===
* {{R:IEC4}}

----

==Croatian==

===Noun===
{{hr-noun|g=m|darovi}}

# [[gift]]

====Declension====
{{hr-decl-dar}}

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-dar.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[gift]]

====Related terms====
* [[dárek]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=m|darren|darretje}}

# [[drone]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Verb===
'''dar'''

# To [[give]]

----

==Irish==

===Preposition===
'''dar'''

# [[by]]

[[Category:Irish prepositions]]

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{f}}

# [[tree]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]

----

==Lithuanian==

===Conjunction===
'''dar'''

# [[still]]

[[Category:Lithuanian conjunctions]]

----

==Maltese==

===Etymology 1===
From Arabic {{Arab|[[دار]]}} (dār).

====Noun====
'''dar'''

# [[house]]

===Etymology 2===
From Arabic {{Arab|[[ادار]]}} (‘adāra).

====Verb====
'''dar'''

# [[turn]]

[[Category:Maltese nouns]]
[[Category:Maltese verbs]]

----

==Old High German==

===Etymology===
Common Germanic *''[[tha-]]'', whence also Old English ''[[þær]]'', Old Norse ''[[þar]]''

===Adverb===
'''dār'''

# [[there]]

[[Category:Old High German adverbs]]

----

==Polish==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{m}}

# [[gift]]

[[Category:Polish nouns]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Verb===
'''dar'''

# to [[give]]

[[Category:Portuguese irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Portuguese verbs]]

----

==Romani==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{f}}

# [[fear]]

[[Category:Romani nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian conjunctions]]

----

==Romanian==

===Conjunction===
'''dar'''

# [[but]]

====Synonyms====
* [[însă]]

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{n}}

# [[gift]]

[[Category:Romanian nouns]]

----

==Serbian==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{m}} ({{p}}: '''darovi''')

# [[gift]]
# [[endowment]]
# [[bestowment]]
# [[benefice]]

====Cyrillic spelling====
* [[дар#Serbian|дар]]

[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
'''dar''' {{m}}

# [[gift]]

[[Category:Slovak nouns]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[dar]}}
* {{audio|Es-dar-bo-La Paz.ogg|Bolivian pronunciation}}

===Etymology===
From [[latin]] ''[[dare]]''

===Verb===
'''dar'''

# {{transitive}} to [[give]]
# {{transitive}} to [[hand over]]
# {{transitive}} to [[hit]]
# {{transitive}} to [[emit]]
# {{transitive}} to [[produce]]
# {{transitive}} to [[perform]]
#: '''dar como''' ''or'' '''dar por'''
# {{transitive}} to [[consider]]
#: ''doy eso por menos que yo'' — "I consider that beneath me"
#: '''dar a''' ''or'' '''dar sobre'''
# {{transitive}} to [[overlook]]
#: '''dar con'''
# {{transitive}} to [[encounter]]; to [[run]] into
# {{transitive}} to [[hit]] [[upon]]
#: '''dar de sí'''
# {{transitive}} to [[give]]; to [[stretch]]
# {{reflexive}} to [[occur]]
# {{reflexive}} to [[grow]]
#: ''el maíz '''se da''' en esta tierra'' — corn/maize grows on this land
#: '''darse con''' ''or'' '''darse contra'''
# {{reflexive}} to [[hit]] oneself [[against]]
#: '''darse cuenta'''
# {{reflexive}} to [[realize]] or [[notice]] something
#: '''dárselas de'''
# to [[brag]] or [[boast]] about
# {{reflexive}} to [[surrender]]
#: ''me doy'' — I surrender; ''¿te das?'' — do you surrender?
# {{reflexive}} + ''[[por#Spanish|por]]'' to [[assume]]
#: '''''darse por''' [[vencido]]'' — to assume to be [[defeated]]
#: '''''darse por''' [[muerto]]'' — to assume to be [[dead]]
#: '''''dar''' a [[alguien]] por muerto'' — to assume someone is dead

====Conjugation====
{{es-conj-ar (dar)|d|die}}

[[Category:Spanish irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Spanish verbs]]

----

==Turkish==

===Adjective===
'''dar'''

# [[narrow]]

===Noun===
'''dar'''

# [[house]]
# [[patriot]]

===Derived terms===
* [[dar-ul hadis]] — [[hadith]] house
* [[dar-ul eytam]] — [[orphanage]]
* [[idare]] — [[administration]]
* [[serdar]] — [[commander-in-chief]] ([[ser#Turkish|ser]] = head, dar = patriot)
* [[Vardar]] — the place where the [[patriot]] arrives (var = to arrive, dar = [[patriot]][http://www.wikipedia.org/vardar]).
* [[dar-ul hikmet]] — the place or house for wisdom.
* [[dar-ul erkam]] — the place of erkam.
* [[dar-ul islam]] — patriot of Islam.
* [[dar-ul harp]]
* [[dar-ul sulh]] — the place of peace.
* [[dar-ul hidmet]]
* [[dareyn]] — two places (especially this [[world]] and [[heaven]]).
* [[saadet-i dareyn]] — the happiness of two places (especially this world and heavenly happiness).

[[Category:Turkish adjectives]]

[[br:dar]]
[[de:dar]]
[[el:dar]]
[[es:dar]]
[[fr:dar]]
[[gl:dar]]
[[hr:dar]]
[[io:dar]]
[[id:dar]]
[[ie:dar]]
[[it:dar]]
[[sw:dar]]
[[ku:dar]]
[[lt:dar]]
[[hu:dar]]
[[nl:dar]]
[[no:dar]]
[[pl:dar]]
[[pt:dar]]
[[ro:dar]]
[[ru:dar]]
[[sl:dar]]
[[fi:dar]]
[[sv:dar]]
[[vi:dar]]
[[tr:dar]]
[[zh:dar]]