{{also|dark ages}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|dark ages}}

===Etymology===
The phrase appears in writing of the English Reformation by Richard Sibbes (1620) and by George Abbot (1624), the archbishop of Canterbury. Both authors use it to refer to the period of papal supremacy before the Reformation. The earliest citation in ''Oxford English Dictionary'' is dated 1687. Use is specific to English therefore not likely to be from Latin.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|head=the [[dark|Dark]] [[age|Ages]]}}

# {{lb|en|see usage notes}} The period of [[European]] history encompassing (roughly) 476–1000 {{CE}}.
#: {{syn|en|Early Middle Ages}}
# {{lb|en|Ancient Greece}} The {{w|Greek Dark Ages}} (c. 1100–750 {{BCE}}).
# The {{w|dark ages of Cambodia}} (c. 1450–1863).
# The dark ages of Laos (c. 1707–1893).
# {{lb|en|astronomy}} [[W:Chronology_of_the_universe#The_Dark_Ages_and_large-scale_structure_emergence|Dark Ages]], 380 thousand to about 1 billion years after the [[Big Bang]].
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} Any relatively [[primitive]] period of time.
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Steven Davis|title=Connectionism: Theory and Practice|year=1992|publisher=Oxford University Press|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=kRQAPtV0ONIC&lpg=PA84&dq=%22connectionism%22&pg=PA84#v=onepage&q&f=false|isbn=978-0-19-536035-6|page=84|passage=It is clear that many linguists view connectionism as a revival of the radical empiricist approach that dominated the '''dark ages''' in psychology—the behaviourist era.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|date=March 6, 2000|work=Network World|volume=17|number=10|page=49|passage=Yes, DSL is a better, faster and less expensive way to access the Internet. Unfortunately, it's saddled with back-office systems that belong in the '''Dark Ages''' and politics that may require regulatory oversight.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2001|isbn=0-375-50578-4|author=Lawrence Lessig|title=The future of ideas: the fate of the commons in a connected world|page=104|url=http://www.the-future-of-ideas.com/download/lessig_FOI.pdf|passage=Put yourself back in the '''dark ages''', the time before the Internet took off–say, the 1970s–and ask: What was the environment for creativity then?}}
#* {{quote-video game|en||developer={{w|BioWare}}|title={{w|Mass Effect: Andromeda}}|genre=[[science fiction|Science Fiction]]|location=Redwood City|publisher=Electronic Arts|year=2017|platform=PC|scene=Angara: Lost Colony Worlds Codex entry|oclc=1261299044|text=The Scourge disaster sent angaran civilization into a '''dark age'''. Records of their golden era of technological advancement and proliferation through space only survived as oral history, making it difficult to separate truth from legend. Nevertheless, angara believe they had colonized numerous planets across the cluster before the Scourge's devastation left them cut off from each other for centuries.}}
#* {{quote-song|en|date=14 June 2019|author={{w|Taylor Swift}} and {{w|Joel Little}}|title={{w|You Need to Calm Down}}|album={{w|Lover (album)|Lover}}|artist=Taylor Swift|text=Sunshine on the street at the parade / But you would rather be in the '''dark ages''' / Making that sign / Must've taken all night}}

====Usage notes====
For the period of European history, academic historians now prefer the term {{m|en|Early Middle Ages}}.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|historic period}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اَلْعُصُورُ الْمُظْلِمَةُ}}
* French: {{t|fr|siècles obscurs}}
* German: {{t|de|Dunkle Jahrhunderte}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|sötét középkor}}
* Ido: {{t|io|tenebro-epoko}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|Zaman Kegelapan}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|暗黒時代|tr=あんこくじだい, ankoku jidai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|saeculum obscurum}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|Zaman Kelam}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wieki ciemne|m-p}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|Idade das Trevas|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Linntean Dorcha|m-p|f-p|alt=Na Lintean Dorcha}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|Edad Oscura|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Further reading===
* {{pedia}}

[[Category:en:Historical periods]]
[[Category:en:Time]]