==English==
{{Wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|daschen}}, {{m|enm|dassen}}, from {{etyl|da|en}} {{m|da|daske||to slap, strike}}, related to Swedish {{m|sv|daska||to smack, slap, spank}}, Old English {{m|ang|dwǣscan||to quell, put out, destroy, extinguish}}. See also {{l|en|adwesch}}, {{l|en|dush}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dæʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-dash.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{label|en|typography}} Any of the following symbols: [[‒]] (''[[figure dash]]''), [[–]] (''[[en dash]]''), [[—]] (''[[em dash]]''), or [[―]] (''[[horizontal bar]]'').
#: sometimes ''dash'' is also used colloquially to refer to a ''[[hyphen]]'' or ''[[minus sign]]''.
# A short [[run]].
# A small [[quantity]] of a [[liquid]] substance etc.; less than 1/8 of a [[teaspoon]].
#: ''Add a '''dash''' of vinegar''
# [[vigor|Vigor]].
#: ''Aren't we full of '''dash''' this morning?''
# A [[dashboard]].
#* '''1955''', [[w:Rex Stout|Rex Stout]], "The Next Witness", in [[w:Three Witnesses (book)|''Three Witnesses'']], October 1994 [[w:Bantam Books|Bantam]] edition, ISBN 0553249592, page 31:
#*: The '''dash''' clock said 2:38 when{{...}} I turned off a dirt road{{...}}.
# One of the two symbols of [[Morse code]].
# {{label|en|Nigeria}} A [[bribe]] or [[gratuity]].
#* '''1992''', George B. N. Ayittey, ''Africa betrayed'' (page 44)
#*: The traditional practice of offering gifts or "'''dash'''" to chiefs has often been misinterpreted by scholars to provide a cultural explanation for the pervasive incidence of bribery and corruption in modern Africa.
#* '''2006''', Adiele Eberechukwu Afigbo, ''The Abolition of the Slave Trade in Southeastern Nigeria, 1885-1950'' (page 99)
#*: Writing in 1924 on a similar situation in Ugep, the political officer, Mr. S. T. Harvey noted: "In the old days there was no specified dowry but merely '''dashes''' given to the father-in-law{{...}}
#* '''2008''', Lizzie Williams, ''Nigeria: The Bradt Travel Guide'' (page 84)
#*: The only other times you'll be asked for a '''''dash''''' is from beggars.
# {{label|en|obsolete|euphemistic}} A stand-in for a censored word, like "Devil" or "damn". (Compare [[deuce]].)
#* '''1824''', "Kiddywinkle History, No. II", ''Blackwood's Magazine'' (15, May 1824) [http://books.google.com/books?id=72Q6AQAAMAAJ&dq=%22i'll%20be%20dashed%22&pg=PA540#v=onepage&q=%22i'll%20be%20dashed%22&f=false p. 540]
#*: I'll be '''dashed''' if I gan another step for less 'an oaf.
#* '''1853''', {{w|William Makepeace Thackery}}, ''{{w|The Newcomes}}'', Chapter VI, serialized in ''Harper's New Monthly Magazine'', (VIII, no. 43, Dec 1853) [http://books.google.com/books?id=WEFGAAAAcAAJ&dq=%22what%20the%20dash%22&pg=PA118#v=onepage&q=%22what%20the%20dash%22&f=true p. 118]
#*: Sir Thomas looks as if to ask what the '''dash''' is that to you! but wanting still to go to India again, and knowing how strong the Newcomes are in Leadenhall Street, he thinks it necessary to be civil to the young cub, and swallows his pride once more into his waistband.
#*: '''Comment''': Some editions leave this passage out. Of those that include it, some change the 'you!' to 'you?'.
#* '''1884''', {{w|Lord Robert Gower}}, ''My Reminiscences'', reprinted in "The Evening Lamp", ''The Christian Union'', (29) 22, (May 29, 1884) [http://books.google.com/books?id=HLg_AQAAMAAJ&dq=%22who%20the%20dash%22%20%22what%20the%20dash%22&pg=PA524#v=onepage&q=%22who%20the%20dash%22%20%22what%20the%20dash%22&f=false p. 524]
#*: Who the '''dash''' is this person whom none of us know? and what the '''dash''' does he do here?
#* '''1939''', {{w|P. G. Wodehouse}}, ''{{w|Uncle Fred in the Springtime}}'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=s8DJQghJDogC&lpg=PA89&dq=%22i'll%20be%20dashed%22&pg=PA89#v=onepage&q=%22i'll%20be%20dashed%22&f=false Chapter 8]
#*: I'll be '''dashed''' if I squash in with any domestic staff.

====Hyponyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:dash]]

====Hypernyms====
* [[punctuation mark]]

====Derived terms====
* [[dashing]]
* [[em dash]], [[en dash]]

====See also====
{{punctuation}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|typographic symbol}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|شَحْطَة|f}}, {{t|ar|شَرْطَة|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|тире|n|tr=tiré}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|guió}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|破折號|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|破折号|tr=pòzhéhào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|pomlčka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|streepje|n}}, {{t+|nl|koppelteken|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajatusviiva}}, {{t+|fi|viiva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tiret|m}}
* German:
* Greek: {{t+|el|παύλα|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kötőjel}}, {{t+|hu|gondolatjel}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|lineetta|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ダッシュ|tr=dasshu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|црта|f|tr=c'rta}}, {{t|mk|тире|n|tr=tiré}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|bindestrek|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|خط تیره|tr=xatt-e tire|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|myślnik|m}} (''punctuation mark, any form''), {{t+|pl|półpauza|f}} (''en dash''), {{t+|pl|pauza|f}} (''em dash'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|travessão|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тире́|n|tr=tirɛ́}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|sgrìob|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|crta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raya|f}}, {{t|es|guión largo|m}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|ystremp|f}}, {{t|cy|ystrempiau|p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|short run}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|втурване|n}}, {{t|bg|спринт|m}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|sprint|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sprint|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|sprinto}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|spurtti}}, {{t|fi|pinkaisu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sprint|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εξόρμηση|f}}, {{t+|el|έφοδος|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scatto|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|疾走|tr=しっそう, shissō}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sprint|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|corridinha|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спринт|m}}, {{t+|ru|бросо́к|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|deann|f}}, {{t|gd|leum|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small quantity of liquid etc.}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|scheutje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tilkka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|soupçon|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spruzzo|m}}, {{t+|it|pizzico}}, {{t+|it|goccio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|anstrøk|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kropla|f}}, {{t+|pl|kapka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|gota|f}}, {{t+|es|pizca|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Morse code symbol}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|тире|n|tr=tiré}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|ratlla|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viiva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|trait|m}}, {{t+|fr|ta|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μακρόν|n}}, {{t+|el|παύλα|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|linea|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kreska|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|traço|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тире́|n|tr=tirɛ́}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raya|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{label|en|intransitive}} To run [[quick]]ly or for a [[short]] distance.
#: ''He '''dashed''' across the field.''
# {{label|en|intransitive|informal}} To [[leave]] or [[depart]].
#: ''I have to '''dash''' now. See you soon.''
# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[destroy]] by [[striking]] (against).
#: ''He '''dashed''' the bottle against the bar and turned about to fight.''
#* '''1897''', {{w|Bram Stoker}}, {{w|Dracula}} Chapter 21
#*: "`Silence! If you make a sound I shall take him and '''dash''' his brains out before your very eyes.'
#* '''1912''': {{w|Edgar Rice Burroughs}}, {{w|Tarzan of the Apes}}, Chapter 4
#*: Kala was the youngest mate of a male called Tublat, meaning broken nose, and the child she had seen '''dashed''' to death was her first; for she was but nine or ten years old.
# {{label|en|transitive}} To throw [[violent]]ly.
#: ''The man was '''dashed''' from the vehicle during the accident.''
#* Francis Bacon
#*: If you '''dash''' a stone against a stone in the bottom of the water, it maketh a sound.
# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[sprinkle]]; to [[splatter]].
#* Thomson
#*: On each hand the gushing waters play, / And down the rough cascade all '''dashing''' fall.
# {{label|en|transitive|of hopes or dreams}} To [[ruin]]; to [[destroy]].
#: ''Her hopes were '''dashed''' when she saw the damage.''
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=September 13
|author=Sam Lyon
|title=Borussia Dortmund 1 - 1 Arsenal
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/europe/14799446.stm
|page=
|passage=Arsenal's hopes of starting their Champions League campaign with an away win were '''dashed''' when substitute Ivan Perisic's superb late volley rescued a point for Borussia Dortmund.}}
# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[dishearten]]; to [[sadden]].
#: ''Her thoughts were '''dashed''' to [[melancholy]].''
# {{label|en|transitive}} To complete hastily, usually with ''down'' or ''off''.
#: ''He '''dashed''' down his eggs'', ''she '''dashed''' off her homework''
# To [[draw]] quickly; [[jot]].
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 1
#*: "Scarborough," Mrs. Flanders wrote on the envelope, and '''dashed''' a bold line beneath; it was her native town; the hub of the universe.
# To throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner; to mix, reduce, or adulterate, by throwing in something of an inferior quality; to overspread partially; to bespatter; to touch here and there.
#: ''to '''dash''' wine with water; to '''dash''' paint upon a picture''
#* Addison
#*: I take care to '''dash''' the character with such particular circumstance as may prevent ill-natured applications.
#* Tennyson
#*: The very source and fount of day / Is '''dashed''' with wandering isles of night.

====Derived terms====
* [[dash off]]
* [[gas and dash]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to run short distance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|втурвам се}}, {{t|bg|спринтирам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|esprintar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|沖|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|冲|tr=chōng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|闖|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|闯|tr=chuǎng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|sprintovat|impf}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sprinten}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|sprinti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pinkaista}}, {{t+|fi|pyrähtää}}, {{t|fi|syöksähtää}}, {{t+|fi|syöksyä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se précipiter}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|saltare}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|нести́сь}}, {{t+|ru|мча́ться}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|leum}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzarse}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sprinta}}, {{t+|sv|spurta}}, {{t+|sv|rusa}}, {{t|sv|störta (iväg)}}, {{t|sv|jaga (iväg)}}, {{qualifier|informal}} {{t|sv|sno (iväg)}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|informal: to leave}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|напускам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiitää}}, {{t+|fi|häipyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|spadać}}, {{t+|pl|lecieć}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to destroy}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разбивам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyödä}}, {{t+|fi|iskeä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|разбива́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|разби́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|romper}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|இடாசு|sc=Taml}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw violently}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хвърлям}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paiskata}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cisnąć|pf}}, {{t+|pl|śmignąć|pf}}, {{t+|pl|ciepnąć|pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|швыря́ть}}, {{t+|ru|швырну́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|броса́ть}}, {{t+|ru|бро́сить|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|arrojar}}, {{t+|es|lanzar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to sprinkle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|roiskuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|roiskua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бры́згать|impf}}, {{t|ru|побры́згать|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|salpicar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of hopes or dreams: to ruin}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verwoesten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murskata}}, {{t|fi|murskaantua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|разруша́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|разру́шить|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|romperse}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to dishearten}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|обезкуражавам}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vaivuttaa}} {{qualifier|tr.}}, {{t+|fi|vaipua}} {{qualifier|intr.}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|frustrar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|приводи́ть в уны́ние|impf}}, {{t|ru|привести́ в уны́ние|pf}}, {{t+|ru|расхола́живать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|расхолоди́ть|pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|frustrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to complete hastily}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|snel afhaspelen}}, {{t|nl|snel afmaken}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hutaista}}, {{t|fi|huitaista}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hacer rapidamente}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to draw quickly}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sutaista}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paiskata}}, {{t+|fi|roiskauttaa}}; {{t+|fi|lorauttaa}} {{qualifier|of liquid}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{label|en|euphemistic}} [[damn|Damn]]!

====Translations====
{{trans-top|damn}}
* Dutch: [[verdorie]]!
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|samperi}}, {{t+|fi|helkkari}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[hyphen]]
* [[minus sign]]

===Anagrams===
* [[dahs#English|dahs]]
* [[Sadh#English|Sadh]]
* [[shad#English|shad]]

[[Category:en:Gaits]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
Disputed. From {{etyl|sqj-pro|sq}} {{m|sqj-pro|*dauša}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*dʰeusóm}} (compare English {{m|en|deer}}, Lithuanian {{m|lt|daũsos}} ‘upper air; heaven’). Alternatively from {{etyl|sqj-pro|sq}} {{m|sqj-pro|*dalša}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁-l-}} (compare Ossetian {{m|os|дались||young lamb}})<ref>ALEKSANDAR LOMA - ALBANO-CAUCASICA PASTORALIA, 2006</ref>

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|m|desh}}

# [[ram]] (male sheep)

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|sq|ndesh}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:sq:Mammals]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{head|no|noun}}

# [[dash#English|dash]]

[[cs:dash]]
[[cy:dash]]
[[de:dash]]
[[et:dash]]
[[el:dash]]
[[fr:dash]]
[[gl:dash]]
[[ko:dash]]
[[hy:dash]]
[[io:dash]]
[[it:dash]]
[[kn:dash]]
[[ku:dash]]
[[lt:dash]]
[[li:dash]]
[[hu:dash]]
[[mg:dash]]
[[ml:dash]]
[[my:dash]]
[[no:dash]]
[[km:dash]]
[[pl:dash]]
[[pt:dash]]
[[ru:dash]]
[[sa:dash]]
[[sq:dash]]
[[simple:dash]]
[[fi:dash]]
[[sv:dash]]
[[tl:dash]]
[[ta:dash]]
[[te:dash]]
[[chr:dash]]
[[tr:dash]]
[[vi:dash]]
[[zh:dash]]