{{wikipedia|dab=Date}}
==English==

{{rank|fixed|leaves|chair|853|date|summer|simply|terrible}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/deɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-date.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪt|-eɪt]]

===Etymology 1===
# Botany: French ''[[datte]]'', Latin ''[[dactylus]]'', from Greek, probably not the same word as finger, but of Semitic origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Botany}} The [[fruit]] of the [[date palm]].  This sweet fruit is somewhat in the shape of an [[olive]], containing a soft pulp and enclosing a hard kernel.
# {{context|Botany}} The [[date palm]] itself.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[date palm]] or [[date tree]] ''(Botany):'' the genus of palms which bear dates, of which common species is ''[[Phoenix dactylifera]]''
* [[date plum]] ''(Botany):'' the fruit of several species of ''[[Diospyros]]'', including the American and Japanese [[persimmon]]s, and the European [[lotus]] (''[[Diospyros lotus]]'')
* [[date shell]] or [[date fish]] ''(Zoölogy):'' a bivalve shell, or its inhabitant, of the genus ''[[Pholas]]'', and allied genera. See ''Pholas''.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fruit of the date palm}}
* {{trreq|Albanian}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* Armenian: [[խուրմա]] (χurma)
* {{trreq|Basque}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|urma|f}}
* [[Breton]]: [[datez]] ''collective noun'' [[datezenn]] ''singular f''
* {{trreq|Chinese}}
* Croatian: [[datula]], [[urma]], [[hurma]]  {{f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|datle|f}}
* Dutch: [[dadel]] {{m}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* {{trreq|Estonian}}
* Finnish: [[taateli]]
* French: {{t+|fr|datte|f}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Dattel}}
* {{trreq|Greek}}
* Hebrew: [[תמר]] (tamar) {{m}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|datolya}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dattero|m}}
* Japanese: [[ナツメヤシ]]の[[実]] (なつめやしのみ, natsumeyashi no mi)
* {{trreq|Korean}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[خورما]]}}
* {{trreq|Latin}}
* {{trreq|Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: [[datulė]] {{f}}
* Maltese: [[tamra]] {{f}}
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|daktyl|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tâmara|f}}
* Romanian: [[curmală]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|финик|m|tr=finik|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[урма]] {{f}}, [[финик]] {{m}} [[датуља]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[urma]] {{f}}, [[finik]] {{m}}, [[datulja]] {{f}}
* {{trreq|Slovak}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|datelj|m}}
* Spanish: [[dátil]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[dadel]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఖర్జూరం]] (kharjooraM)
* {{trreq|Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hurma}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-|vi|trái chà là|xs=Vietnamese}}
* {{trreq|Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|date palm}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[دار خورما]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|Belarusian}}: [[фінік]] (finik) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[фурма]] (furma) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[фінік]] (finik) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
# French ''date'', Late Latin ''[[data]]'', from Latin ''[[datus]]'' given, past participle of ''[[dare]]'' to give; akin to Greek, Old Slavonic ''[[dati]]'', Sanskrit ''[[dā]]''. Compare [[datum]], [[dose]], [[Dato]], [[Die]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the '''date''' of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin, etc.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* And bonds without a '''date''', they say, are void. - [[Dryden]]
#: '''Derived expressions'''
#:* '''To bear date''', to have the date named on the face of it; -- said of a writing
# The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the '''date''' of a battle.  A specific day.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* He at once, Down the long series of eventful time, So fixed the '''dates''' of being, so disposed To every living soul of every kind The field of motion, and the hour of rest. - [[Akenside]]
# A point in time, as in ''You may need that at a later date.''
# {{rare}} Assigned end; conclusion.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* What Time would spare, from Steel receives its '''date'''. - [[Pope]]
# {{obsolete}} Given or assigned length of life; dyration.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* Good luck prolonged hath thy '''date'''. - [[Spenser]]
#:* Through his life's whole '''date'''. - [[Chapman]]
# A pre-arranged social meeting.
# A companion when one is partaking in a social occasion.
# A meeting with a lover or potential lover, or the person so met.
# {{context|Australian slang}} [[anus]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc}}
* German: {{t+|de|Datum}}
* Hebrew: [[תאריך]] (taarykh) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|data|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дата|f|tr=dáta|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|point of time at which a transaction or event takes place}}
* {{trreq|Albanian}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* {{trreq|Armenian}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|datum|m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[deiziad]] {{m}}, deiziadoù {{p}}
* {{trreq|Chinese}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|datum|m}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* {{trreq|Estonian}}
* Finnish: [[päiväys]], [[päivämäärä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|date|f}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Datum|f}}, {{t+|de|Zeitpunkt|m}}
* Hebrew: [[תאריך]] (taarykh) {{m}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* {{trreq|Hungarian}}
* {{trreq|Icelandic}}
* Indonesian: [[tanggal]]
* {{trreq|Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|data|f}}
* Japanese: [[日付]] (ひづけ, hitzuke)
* {{trreq|Khmer}}
* {{trreq|Korean}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Latin}}
* {{trreq|Latvian}}
* {{trreq|Lithuanian}}
* {{trreq|Mongolian}}
* {{trreq|Norwegian}}
* {{trreq|Old English}}
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|data|f}}
* {{trreq|Portuguese}}
* Romanian: [[dată]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[дата]] (dáta) {{f}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[датум]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[datum]] {{m}}
* {{trreq|Slovak}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|datum|m}}
* {{trreq|Swahili}}
* {{trreq|Swedish}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[తేది]] (taedi)
* {{trreq|Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tarih}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* {{trreq|Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|point in time}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|datum|n}}
* Finnish: [[ajankohta]]
* German: {{t+|de|Zeitpunkt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|data|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|data|f}}
* Russian: [[дата]] (dáta) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|assigned end; conclusion}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ende|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|срок|m|tr=srok|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: Given or assigned length of life}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zeit|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[срок]] (srok) {{m}}, [[век]] (vek) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pre-arranged social meeting}}
* {{trreq|Albanian}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* {{trreq|Armenian}}
* {{trreq|Basque}}
* [[Breton]]: [[emgav]] {{m}}, emgavioù {{p}}
* {{trreq|Chinese}}
* {{trreq|Croatian}}
* {{trreq|Czech}}
* {{trreq|Danish}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afspraakje|n}}, {{t+|nl|afspraak|f}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* {{trreq|Estonian}}
* Finnish: [[tapaaminen]], [[treffit]] ''(the latter only a romantic meeting)''
* French: {{t+|fr|rendez-vous|m}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t-|de|Treffen|n}}, {{t+|de|Verabredung|f}}
* {{trreq|Greek}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* {{trreq|Hungarian}}
* {{trreq|Icelandic}}
* Indonesian: [[kencan]]
* {{trreq|Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[incontro]] {{m}}, [[appuntamento]] {{m}} ''(the latter also as romantic meeting)''
* Japanese: [[デート]] (deeto)
* {{trreq|Korean}}
* {{trreq|Latvian}}
* {{trreq|Lithuanian}}
* {{trreq|Maltese}}
* {{trreq|Mongolian}}
* {{trreq|Norwegian}}
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* {{trreq|Polish}}
* Portuguese: [[encontro]] ''(romantic meeting)''
* {{trreq|Romanian}}
* Russian: [[встреча]] (vstréča) {{f}}, [[свидание]] (svidánije) {{n}}
* {{trreq|Serbian}}
* {{trreq|Slovak}}
* {{trreq|Slovene}}
* {{trreq|Spanish}}
* {{trreq|Swahili}}
* {{trreq|Swedish}}
* {{trreq|Thai}}
* Turkish: [[randevu]], [[buluşma]]
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* {{trreq|Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A companion when one is partaking in a social occasion}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|seuralainen}}
* German: [[Partner]] {{m}}, [[Partnerin]] {{f}}, [[Verabredung]] {{f}} ''(colloquial, arbitrary gender)''
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[acompanhante]] {{m|f}}
* Romanian: [[întâlnire]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Transitive verb====
{{rfc-trverb|Transitive verb}}
{{en-verb|dat|ing}}

# To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution; as, to '''date''' a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter
# To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of; as, to '''date''' the building of the pyramids
#: '''Note''': We may say '''dated at''' or '''from''' a place.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* The letter is '''dated at''' Philadephia. - [[G. T. Curtis]]
#:* You will be surprised, I don't question, to find among your correspondencies in foreign parts, a letter '''dated from''' Blois. - [[Addison]]
#:* In the countries of his jornal seems to have been written; parts of it are '''dated from''' them. - [[w:Matthew Arnold|M. Arnold]]
# To determine the age of something
# To take (someone) on a series of dates

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To note the time of writing or executing}}
* Finnish: [[päivätä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[לתארך]] (letaarekh)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To note or fix the time of, as of an event}}
* Hebrew: [[לתארך]] (letaarekh)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To determine the age of something}}
* [[Breton]]: [[deiziañ]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dateren}}
* Finnish: [[ajoittaa]], [[määrittää]] [[ikä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dater}}
* German: [[datieren]]
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|data}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To take (someone) on a series of dates}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|daten}}
* German: {{t+|de|ausgehen}}, {{t-|de|daten}}
* Finnish: [[seurustella]], [[tapailla]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-verb|dat|ing}}

# To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with '''from'''
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* The Batavian republic '''dates''' from the successes of the French arms. - [[w:Edward Everett|E. Everett]]
# To become old, especially in such a way as to fall out of fashion, become less appealing or attractive, etc.
#: ''This show hasn't dated well.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To begin}}
* Dutch: [[dateren]] (with '''van''' or '''uit''')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Aromanian==

===Etymology===
{{L.|rup}} ''[[decem]]''

===Numeral===
{{infl|rup|number}}

# {{cardinal|lang=rup}} [[ten]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dat/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[date#English|date]] (''point in time'')

[[Category:Calendar terms]]
[[Category:Fruits]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''date''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|data|lang=Italian}}

===Verb===
'''date'''

# [[second person plural]] [[present tense]] of [[dare#Italian|dare]]
# second person plural [[imperative]] of dare
# feminine plural of [[dato]], [[past participle]] of dare

[[Category:Italian past participle forms]]
[[Category:Italian verb forms]]

[[de:date]]
[[et:date]]
[[el:date]]
[[fa:date]]
[[fr:date]]
[[io:date]]
[[id:date]]
[[it:date]]
[[ku:date]]
[[lt:date]]
[[hu:date]]
[[nl:date]]
[[ja:date]]
[[no:date]]
[[pl:date]]
[[pt:date]]
[[ru:date]]
[[simple:date]]
[[fi:date]]
[[ta:date]]
[[te:date]]
[[vi:date]]
[[tr:date]]
[[zh:date]]