==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-au-date with destiny.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|dates with destiny}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} An [[inevitable]] future [[event]] or [[anticipate]]d [[occurrence]], especially in the form of an [[encounter]] which is likely to be [[momentous]].
#* '''1936''' Aug. 10, "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,762277,00.html "I Preach"]," ''Time'':
#*: The American people want no rendezvous with a destiny plotted on blueprints in a Washington office. When they have a '''date with destiny''' they want to know what the lady looks like.
#* '''2001''', "A Fish Out of Water", season 3, episode 10 of ''{{w|Family Guy}}''
#*: Hennessey: You need fifty grand, Griffin? I got a suggestion for you. Why don't you kill Daggermouth?
#*: Peter Griffin: Maybe I will, Hennessey.
#*: Shamus: You'd be buying yourself a ticket to a watery grave. Daggermouth is the meanest, most ruthless creature that's ever inhabited the sea.
#*: {{...}}
#*: Peter Griffin: I am not gonna let my family live on the street. Not even if it means ending up like Shamus here. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a '''date with destiny'''.
#* '''2002''' Jan. 1, Ian Black, "[http://www.guardian.co.uk/euro/story/0,11306,626460,00.html The arrival of the euro: their money, our future?]," ''Guardian Unlimited'' (UK):
#*: So much has been said about Europe's long-awaited '''date with destiny''' that it was hard to sort out the predictable hyperbole from the reality.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|inevitable or anticipated event}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kohtalonhetki}}
* French: {{t-needed|fr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|skjebnemøte|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|skjebnemøte|n}}
* Spanish: {{t-needed|es}}
{{trans-bottom}}