{{see|defacto}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
A {{L.}} expression that means "in fact" or "in practice" or "in reality"

===Adjective===
'''[[de]] [[facto]]'''

# [[actual|Actual]].
# [[virtual|Virtual]], being such in effect or essence (rather than literally ''in fact'') though not formally or wholly taken for granted, as opposed to ''[[de jure]]''.
DE FACTO. Actually; in fact; in deed. A term used to denote a thing actually done.
    A government de facto signifies one completely, through only temporarily, established in the place of the lawful government; Thomas v. Taylor, 42 Miss. 651, 2 Am. Rep. 625, Chisholm v. Coleman, 43 Ala. 204, 94 Am. Dec. 677, See De Jure Austin, Jur. Lect. vi. p. 336.
Bouvier’s Law Dictionary, Third Revision (8th Edition)(1914), Volume 1, page 761.

de facto (dë fak’tö). In fact, as distinguished from “de jure,” by right.
Law Dictionary, James A. Ballentine, Second Edition, 1948, page 344.

de facto government. A government wherein all the attributes of sovereignty have, by usurpation, been transferred from those who had been legally invested with them to others, who, sustained by a power above the forms of law, claim to act and do act in their stead. 30 Am Jur 181.
Law Dictionary, James A. Ballentine, Second Edition, 1948, page 345.

De facto. In fact; actually; indeed; in reality. Ridout v. State, 161 Tenn. 248, 30 S.W.2d 255, 257, 71 A.L.R. 830.
Black’s Law Dictionary 4th Edition (1951) page 504.

De facto government. One that maintains itself by a display of force against the will of the rightful legal government and is successful, at least temporarily, in overturning the institutions of the rightful legal government by setting up its own in lieu thereof. Wortham v. Walker, 133 Tex. 255, 128 S.W.2d 1138, 1145.
Black’s Law Dictionary 4th Edition (1951) page 504.

de facto (dë fak’tö, da-, de-). [[L]] existing or being such in actual fact though not by legal establishment, official recognition, etc. [de facto government]: cf. de jure.
Webster’s New World Dictionary, 3rd College Ed. (1988), page 360. 
# {{context|politics|military}} Of a political or military leader, exercising [[power]] without being [[legally]] [[establish]]ed.
#:* Although the United States currently has no official language, it is largely monolingual with English being the '''de facto''' national language.
# {{context|computing}} Of hardware or software, being widely used, but not conforming to a standard.

===Adverb===
'''[[de]] [[facto]]'''

# in reality

===Noun===
'''[[de]] [[facto]]'''

# {{Australia}} A legally undeclared spouse. Usually spelled [[defacto]].

===See also===
* [[de jure]]

[[ca:de facto]]
[[cs:de facto]]
[[da:de facto]]
[[fr:de facto]]
[[lt:de facto]]
[[pl:de facto]]
[[fi:de facto]]
[[tt:de facto]]
[[vi:de facto]]