{{also|Deal}}
==English==

{{rank|knows|try|loved|624|deal|distance|thinking|beginning}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|dēl}}, {{IPA|/diːl/}}, {{SAMPA|/di:l/}}
* {{audio|en-us-deal.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|iːl}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|dæl|dǣl|lang=ang|part, share, portion}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} A [[division]], a [[portion]], a [[share]].
#: ''We gave three '''deals''' of grain in tribute to the king.''
# {{context|often followed by ''of''}} An [[indefinite]] [[quantity]] or [[amount]]; a [[lot]] (''now usually qualified by'' {{term|great}} ''or'' {{term|good}}).
#* '''1485''', [[w:Thomas Malory|Sir Thomas Malory]], ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book VII.2:
#*: Than the knyght armyte put a thynge in hys nose and a litill '''dele''' of watir in hys mowthe, and than Sir Launcelot waked of hys swowghe.
#* '''1814''', [[w:Jane Austen|Jane Austen]], ''Mansfield Park'', ch. 2:
#*: There is a vast '''deal''' of difference in memories, as well as in every thing else, and therefore you should make allowance for your cousin, and pity her deficiency.
#* '''1851''', [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''Moby-Dick'', ch. 32:
#*: There is a '''deal''' of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously baptized.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|act of apportioning or distributing}} [[allotment]], [[apportionment]], [[distribution]], [[dole out|doling out]], [[share|sharing]], sharing out
* {{sense|large number or amount or extent}} [[batch]], [[flock]], [[good deal]], [[great deal]], [[hatful]], [[heap]], [[load]], [[lot]], [[mass]], [[mess]], [[mickle]], [[mint]], [[muckle]], [[peck]], [[pile]], [[plenty]], [[pot]], [[quite a little]], [[raft]], [[sight]], [[slew]], [[spate]], [[stack]], [[tidy sum]], [[wad]], [[whole lot]], [[whole slew]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{sense|indefinite quantity}} [[a great deal]], [[a good deal]], [[big deal]], [[real deal]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|division, share}}
* French: {{t+|fr|part}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anteil|m}}, {{t-|de|Portion|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|раздача|f|tr=razdáča}}, {{t+|ru|распределение|n|tr=raspredelénije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|large number or amount or extent}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|количество|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Menge|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: ''colloq.'' [[куча]] (kúča) {{f}}, [[уйма]] (újma) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|dælan|dǣlan|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|delja-|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|dʰail-|lang=en}}.  Cognate with Dutch {{term|delen|lang=nl}}, German {{term|teilen|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|dela|lang=sv}}; and with Lithuanian {{term|dalinti||divide|lang=lt}}, Russian {{term|делить|lang=ru|sc=Cyrl}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|deals|dealing|dealt}}

# {{transitive}} To [[distribute]] among a number of [[recipient]]s, to give out as one’s portion or share.
#: ''The fighting is over; now we '''deal''' out the spoils of victory.''
# {{transitive}} To [[administer]] or give out, as in small portions.
#* '''1820''', [[w:Walter Scott|Sir Walter Scott]], ''The Abbot'', ch. 30:
#*: "Away, proud woman!" said the Lady; "who ever knew so well as thou to '''deal''' the deepest wounds under the pretence of kindness and courtesy?"
# To distribute cards to the players in a game.
#: ''I was '''dealt''' four aces.''
#: ''The cards were shuffled and '''dealt''' by the croupier.''
# {{baseball}} To [[pitch]].
#: ''The whole crowd waited for him to '''deal''' a real humdinger.''
# {{intransitive}} To have [[dealings]] or [[business]].
#* '''1838''', [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''Oliver Twist'', ch. 11:
#*: Mr. Brownlow contrived to state his case; observing that, in the surprise of the moment, he had run after the boy because he saw him running away; and expressing his hope that, if the magistrate should believe him, although not actually the thief, to be connected with thieves; he would '''deal''' as leniently with him as justice would allow.
# {{intransitive}} To [[conduct]] oneself, to [[behave]].
#* '''1590''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', III.ii:
#*: In ''Deheubarth'' that now South-wales is hight, / What time king ''Ryence'' raign'd, and '''dealed''' right [...].
# {{obsolete|intransitive}} To take [[action]]; to [[act]].
#* '''1485''', Sir Thomas Malory, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book IV:
#*: Wel said syr Uwayne go on your waye, and lete me '''dele'''.
# {{intransitive}} To [[trade]] professionally (''followed by'' '''in''').
#: ''She '''deals''' in gold.''
# {{transitive}} To [[sell]], especially to sell [[illicit]] [[drug]]s.
#: ''This club takes a dim view of members who '''deal''' drugs.''
# {{intransitive}} To be concerned with.
#* '''1922''', [[w:James Joyce|James Joyce]], ''Ulysses'', episode 14:
#*: Science, it cannot be too often repeated, '''deals''' with tangible phenomena.
# {{intransitive}} To [[handle]], to [[manage]], to [[cope]].
#* '''1897''', [[w:Bram Stoker|Bram Stoker]], ''Dracula'', ch 19:
#*: Then there was the sound of a struggle, and I knew that the attendants were '''dealing''' with him.
#: ''I can't '''deal''' with this.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|distribute among a number of recipients}} [[apportion]], [[divvy up]], [[share]], [[share out]], [[portion out]]
* {{sense|administer in portions}} [[administer]], [[allot]], [[deal out]], [[dish out]], [[dispense]], [[distribute]], [[dole out]], [[hand out]], [[lot]], [[mete out]], [[parcel out]], [[shell out]]
* {{sense|distribute (cards)}}
* {{sense|baseball slang: to pitch}} [[pitch]], [[throw]]
* {{sense|have dealings with}}
* {{sense|trade}} [[sell]], [[trade]], [[bargain]]
* {{sense|sell (illicit drugs)}} [[sell]]
* {{sense|be concerned with}}
* {{sense|handle, cope}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[deal with]]
* [[dealer]]
* [[dealy]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|give out as one’s portion or share}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|раздавам}},  {{t|bg|разпределям}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[repartir]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rozdělit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitdelen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jakaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|austeilen}}, {{t+|de|verteilen}}
* Russian: [[раздавать]] (razdavát’), [[распределять]] (raspredelját’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dela}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|administer in portions}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|разпределям}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verdelen}}
* German: {{t+|de|austeilen}}, {{t+|de|erteilen}}, {{t+|de|zuteilen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lidar}}
* Russian: [[наносить]] (nanosít’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dela}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distribute (cards)}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|раздавам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[repartir]]
* Czech: {{t|cs|rozdat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|delen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jakaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|distribuer}}
* German: {{t+|de|austeilen}}, {{t+|de|geben}}
* Russian: [[сдавать]] (sdavát’), [[раздавать]] (razdavát’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ge}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have dealings or business}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|tratar|xs=Galician}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball slang: to pitch}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trade}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|търгувам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[comerciar]], [[vendre]], [[comprar]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|obchodovat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handelen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|handeln}}
* Russian: [[торговать]] (torgovát’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sälja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sell (illicit drugs)}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|prodávat}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|dealen}}
* German: {{t+|de|dealen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|traficar}}
* Russian: [[сбывать]] (sbyvát’), ''colloq.'' [[толкать]] (tolkát’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|langa}}, {{t+|sv|sälja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be concerned with}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|имам работа с}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[tractar]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pojednávat}}
* Dutch: [[te maken hebben met]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|handeln}} (+ ''von''), {{t+|de|behandeln}}, {{t+|de|abhandeln}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lidar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|handla}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|handle, manage}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|справям се}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jednat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|behandelen}}, {{t+|nl|regelen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|behandeln|f}}, {{t+|de|umgehen}} (+ ''mit'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lidar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[भाग देना]] (bhāga denā), [[बांटना]] (bāmtana), [[हिस्सा करना]], [[विभाजित करना]], [[देना]] (denā), [[ताश के पत्ते बांटना]], [[सम्बन्ध रखना]], [[व्यापार करना]], [[लेन-देन करना]], [[व्यवहार करना]], [[बर्ताव करना]]; ''(intransitive)'' [[व्यवहार करना]], [[व्यापार करना]], [[चलाना]], [[बरतना]], [[सामना करना]]; ''(transitive)'' [[व्यापार करना]], [[लेन देन करना]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sepakat]], [[kait|berkaitan]] dengan, [[tangan|menangani]], [[kocok|mengocok]], [[kelola|mengelola]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[合意]]する ([[ごうい]]する, gōi-suru), [[扱う]] ([[あつかう]], atsukau), [[混ぜる]] ([[まぜる]], mazeru), [[取引]]する ([[とりひき]]する, torihiki-suru)
* {{ttbc|Old English}}: [[dælan|dǣlan]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|archaic|_|in general sense}} An act of dealing or sharing.
# The distribution of cards to players; a player's turn for this.
#: ''I didn’t have a good '''deal''' all evening.''
#: ''I believe it's your '''deal'''.''
# A particular instance of buying or selling, a [[transaction]]
#: ''We need to finalise the '''deal''' with Henderson by midnight.''
# Specifically, a transaction offered which is financially beneficial; a [[bargain]].
#* '''2009''', ''The Guardian'', Virginia Wallis, 22 Jul 2009:
#*: You also have to look at the kind of mortgage '''deals''' available to you and whether you will be able to trade up to the kind of property you are looking for.
# An [[agreement]] between parties; an [[arrangement]]
#* '''2009''', Jennifer Steinhauer, ''New York Times'', 20 Jul 2009:
#*: California lawmakers, their state broke and its credit rating shot, finally sealed the '''deal''' with the governor Monday night on a plan to close a $26 billion budget gap.
#: ''He made a '''deal''' with the devil.''
# {{informal}} A [[situation]], [[occasion]], or [[event]].
#: "''I've never killed anybody before.  I don't see what's the big '''deal'''."
#: Line spoken by character played by John Travolta in the movie ''Broken Arrow''.
#: ''What's the '''deal'''?''
# {{informal}} A [[thing]], an unspecified or unidentified [[object]].
#: ''The '''deal''' with four tines is called a pitchfork.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|cards held in a card game by a player at any given time}} [[hand]]
* {{sense|instance of buying or selling}} [[business deal]], [[sale]], [[trade]], [[transaction]]
* {{sense|a beneficial transaction}} [[steal]], [[bargain]]
* {{sense|agreement between parties fixing obligations of each}} [[contract]], [[pact]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun "deal"}}
* [[no deal]]
* [[package deal]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[raw deal]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[sweetheart deal]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|distribution of cards}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|раздаване|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jako}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pli|m}}, {{t+|fr|donne|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[rozdanie]] kart
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сдача|f|tr=sdáča}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|giv|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|instance of buying or selling}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сделка|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|obchod|m}}
* Finnish: [[kauppa]], [[diili]] (''slang'')
* German: {{t+|de|Handel|m}}, {{t+|de|Deal|m}} (Econ.)
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[עסקה]] ('ysqa) {{f}}
* Polish: [[transakcja]], [[interes]], [[sprzedaż]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сделка|f|tr=sdélka}}
* Swedish: [[affär]] {{c}}, [[transaktion]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|agreement, arrangement}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[tracte]], {{m}}
* Finnish: [[sopimus]], [[diili]] (''slang'')
* French: {{t+|fr|contrat|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pakt|m}}, {{t+|de|Abkommen|n}}, {{t+|de|Abmachung|f}}, {{t+|de|Abschluss|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|contratto|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|porozumienie}}, {{t+|pl|układ}}, {{t+|pl|kontrakt}}, {{t+|pl|umowa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сделка|f|tr=sdélka}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kontrakt|n}}, {{t-|sv|pakt|c}}, {{t+|sv|uppgörelse|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[भाग]] (bhāg), [[बांट]] (bāmt), [[परिमाण]] (parimān), [[मात्रा]] (mātrā), [[अंश]] (amsh), [[बाहुल्य]] (bāhulya) (1); ''(quantity)'' [[मात्रा]] (mātrā), [[परिमाण]], [[बंटाई]] (bantāī), [[बांट]] (bāmt); ''(treat)'' [[व्यवहार]]; ''(bargain)'' [[सौदा]] (saudā)
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sepakat|kesepakatan]] (1,2)
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[取引]] ([[とりひき]], torihiki) (1,2), [[合意]] ([[ごうい]], gōi) (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|gml|en}} {{term|dele|lang=gml}}, cognate with Old English {{term|þille|lang=ang}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{uncountable}} [[wood|Wood]] that is easy to [[saw]] (from [[conifer]]s such as pine or fir)
# {{countable}} A [[plank]] of [[softwood]] (fir or pine board)

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|wood that is easy to saw, from conifers such as pine or fir}}
* {{sense|plank of softwood}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|wood that is easy to saw}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|чам|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bohle|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|plank of softwood}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|чамова дъска}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Planke|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Made of deal.
#: ''A plain '''deal''' table''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|made of deal}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|елов}},  {{t|bg|чамов}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[Adel#English|Adel]]}}
* [[dale#English|dale]], [[Dale#English|Dale]]
* [[E.D. La.#English|E.D. La.]]
* [[lade#English|lade]]
* [[lead#English|lead]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From a {{etyl|sla|ro}} language. Compare Croatian {{term|dol|lang=hr}}.

===Noun===
'''deal''' {{f}} and {{m}}

# [[hill]]

[[Category:Romanian nouns]]

[[de:deal]]
[[et:deal]]
[[el:deal]]
[[es:deal]]
[[eu:deal]]
[[fr:deal]]
[[gl:deal]]
[[ko:deal]]
[[io:deal]]
[[it:deal]]
[[kn:deal]]
[[sw:deal]]
[[ku:deal]]
[[lo:deal]]
[[lt:deal]]
[[li:deal]]
[[hu:deal]]
[[my:deal]]
[[nl:deal]]
[[ja:deal]]
[[pl:deal]]
[[ro:deal]]
[[ru:deal]]
[[simple:deal]]
[[fi:deal]]
[[sv:deal]]
[[ta:deal]]
[[te:deal]]
[[uk:deal]]
[[vi:deal]]
[[zh:deal]]