==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{OF.}} ''[[dete]]'' (French: ''[[dette]]''), from {{L.}} ''[[debitam]]''. A common English misspelling includes an unpronounced "b", which is an archaicism from the Latin "[[debitum]]".

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/dɛt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-debt.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛt|-ɛt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An action, state of mind, or object one has an [[obligation]] to [[perform]] for another, [[adopt]] toward another, or [[give]] to another.
#*'''1589''', [[w:William_Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry IV, Part I'', act 1, sc. 3,
#*:Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
#*:Of this proud king, who studies day and night
#*:To answer all the '''debt''' he owes to you
#*:Even with the bloody payment of your deaths.
#*'''1850''', [[w:Nathaniel_Hawthorne|Nathaniel Hawthorne]], ''The Scarlet Letter'', ch. 14,
#*:This long '''debt''' of confidence, due from me to him, whose bane and ruin I have been, shall at length be paid.
# The state or condition of owing something to another.
#:''I am in your '''debt'''.
# [[Money]] that one person or entity [[owe]]s or is required to [[pay]] to another, generally as a result of a [[loan]] or other [[financial]] transaction.
#*'''1919''', [[w:Upton_Sinclair|Upton Sinclair]], ''Jimmie Higgins'', ch. 15,
#*:Bolsheviki had repudiated the four-billion-dollar '''debt''' which the government of the Tsar had contracted with the bankers.

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
* [[bad debt]]
* [[debt-equity ratio]]
* [[debt-laden]]
* [[debtor]]
* [[domestic debt]]
{{mid2}}
* [[external debt]]
* [[foreign debt]]
* [[indebted]]
* [[national debt]]
{{bottom2}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|action, state of mind, or object one has an obligation to perform for another, adopt toward another, or give to another}}
* Danish: [[gæld]] {{c}}, [[skyldighed]] {{c}}
* Finnish: [[velvoite]]
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|tartozás}}, {{t+|hu|kötelezettség}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|deyn|m}}, {{t+|ku|qer|m}}, {{t+|ku|قه‌رز|sc=KUchar}}
* Russian: [[долг]] (dolg) {{m}}, [[обязанность]] (ob'ázannost') {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dolg|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skuld|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state or condition of owing something to another}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dluh|m}}
* Danish: [[gæld]] {{c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|velka}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|adósság}}, {{t|hu|tartozás}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[قه‌رزار]]}}
* Russian: [[долг]] (dolg) {{m}}
* Swedish: [[skuld]] {{c}} (''be in debt: stå i skuld'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|money that one person or entity owes or is required to pay to another}}
* Danish: [[gæld]] {{c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|velka}}
* Hebrew: [[חוב]] (khov) {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|adósság}}, {{t|hu|tartozás}}
* Japanese: {{JAchar|[[負債]]}} ({{JAchar|[[ふさい]]}}, fusai), {{JAchar|[[借金]]}} ({{JAchar|[[しゃっきん]]}}, shakkin)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: [[qer]] {{m}}, {{KUchar|[[قه‌رز]]}}
* Russian: [[долг]] (dolg) {{m}}, [[задолженность]] (zadólžennost') {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dolg|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skuld|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[skuld]]
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[dug#Bosnian|dug]] {{m}}
*Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|債務|债务}} ([[zhàiwù]])
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[dug#Croatian|dug]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[schuld]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[dette]]
*{{ttbc|Frisian}}: [[skuld]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Schuld]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[χρέος]] (khréos) {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[debajo]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[hutang]], [[debet]], [[debit]], [[pijaman]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[debita]], [[debito]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[debito]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[debitum]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[빚]] (bit)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[gjeld]]
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[dług]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[dívida]] {{f}}, [[débito]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[datorie]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[дуг#Serbian|дуг]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[dug#Serbian|dug]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[deuda]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[అప్పు]] (appu)
*{{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[борг]] (borh) {{m}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:debt]]
[[de:debt]]
[[fa:debt]]
[[fr:debt]]
[[hy:debt]]
[[io:debt]]
[[id:debt]]
[[it:debt]]
[[kk:debt]]
[[hu:debt]]
[[ja:debt]]
[[pl:debt]]
[[ro:debt]]
[[simple:debt]]
[[fi:debt]]
[[ta:debt]]
[[te:debt]]
[[vi:debt]]
[[zh:debt]]