==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|en-au-deep pockets.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Noun===
{{en-plural noun|sg=deep pocket}}

# {{lb|en|literally}} [[pocket|Pockets]] long enough inside to accommodate more than average number or size of contents.
#: ''I like the '''deep pockets''' on these pants because my cellphone doesn't fall out when I run with my dog.''
#: ''It was a good thing his coat had '''deep pockets''' because he has big hands and it was quite cold that day.''
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} An [[ample]] supply of [[money]], especially money which one is [[willing]] to [[spend]]; the [[possessor]] of such money.
#: ''We need an investor with '''deep pockets''' to help us get our invention to market.''
#* '''1959''' Dec. 21, "[https://web.archive.org/web/20110201050310/http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,865151,00.html The Biggest Fund]," ''Time'':
#*: Out of '''deep pockets''' in three weeks flowed 18 six-figure gifts totaling $3,100,000.
#* '''1989''', V. Hans and M. Ermann, "Responses to Corporate versus Individual Wrongdoing," ''Law and Human Behavior'', vol. 13, no. 2, p. 153:
#*: It is commonly claimed that juries award plaintiffs who sue corporations larger sums of money because the jurors believe that the corporations, with their "'''deep pockets'''," can afford more.
#* '''2003''', Jeffrey Manns, "Insuring against Terror?" ''The Yale Law Journal'', vol. 112, no. 8, p. 2529:
#*: The federal government was the one party with the '''deep pockets''' to meet the rent-seeking needs of insurers and high-risk property owners.

[[Category:en:Money]]