==English==
{{was wotd|2006|February|28}}

===Etymology===
{{back-form|defenestration|nodot=3|lang=en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|de-||out}} + {{m|la|fenestra||window}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/dɪˈfɛnɪstɹeɪt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/dəˈfɛnɪstɹeɪt/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|defenestrat}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[eject]] or [[throw]] (someone or something) from a [[window]]; compare {{m|en|transfenestrate}}.
#* '''1998''' September 25, [[w:Lane Smith (illustrator)|Lane Smith]], quoted in "[http://www.timeforkids.com/TFK/teachers/wr/article/0,27972,88538,00.html TFK Q&A: Lane Smith and Jon Scieszka]", in ''Time for Kids'':
#*: I '''defenestrated''' a clock to see if time flies!
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[throw out]].
#* '''1998''', Barry J. Fraser and Kenneth George Tobin, ''International Handbook of Science Education'', Volume 2,
#*: The cultural historians of science 'feel the need to '''defenestrate''' science, or at least take it off its pedestal' (Pumfrey. Rossi & Slawinski 1991. p. 3).
#* '''2001''', ''[[w:The Economist|The Economist]]'', Volume 381, Issues 8498-8501, Page 42,
#*: Ever since he helped to '''defenestrate''' Richard Nixon in 1974, Mr Woodward has been a sort of super-reporter ...
#* '''2004''', Mary Carey and Kim Berquist, ''Writing from a Small Country: Anthology of the Creative Writing Club, Luxembourg'',
#*: According to the guidebooks, they do it so strenuously that women would very much like to '''defenestrate''' the custom.
# {{lb|en|computing|transitive|humorous|slang}} To remove a {{w|Windows}} [[operating system]] from a computer.
#* '''1998''' December 17, Darren Salt &lt;news@youmustbejoking.demon.com.uk>, "Re: Coding speccy games in the good 'ole days", message-ID &lt;48B60EA729%news@youmustbejoking.demon.com.uk>, ''comp.sys.sinclair'', Usenet&nbsp;[http://google.com/group/comp.sys.sinclair/msg/8b00481a8be589d2]:
#*:: This posting was written on a Windows 95 PC,
#*: '''Defenestrate''' it immediately. Install Linux. :-)
#* '''2001''' July 21, "Packet Rat" (pseudonym), "[http://gcn.com/articles/2001/07/21/packet-rat_633659204168370717.aspx Judge Rat calls for a Microsoft defenestration]", <!-- retrieved 2009 May 17 --> on ''GCN: Government Computer News'':
#*: ◦ Enable one-click uninstalls of unwanted OS and application features with a '''Defenestrate''' icon.
#* '''2007''' May 16, [[w:Richard Stallman|Richard Stallman]], speech, ''[[s:Free Software and Beyond: Human Rights in the Use of Software and Other Published Works|Free Software and Beyond: Human Rights in the Use of Software and Other Published Works]]'',
#*: Now of course people who want freedom shouldn't use Windows at all, you've got to '''defenestrate''' your computer, which mean either you throw Windows out of the computer, or you throw the computer out the window.

====References====
* “[http://www.pcmag.com/encyclopedia_term/0,2542,t=defenestrate&i=56449,00.asp defenestrate]” in ''PC Magazine Encyclopedia''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|eject from a window}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يلقي من النافذَة}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|defenestrar}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[heittää]] [[ikkuna]]sta [[ulos]]}}
* French: {{t+|fr|défenestrer}}
* German: {{t|de|defenestrieren}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|henda út um glugga}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|defenestrare}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|defenestrować}}, [[wyrzucić]] [[przez]] [[okno]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|defenestrar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[выбра́сывать]] [[из]] [[окно|окна́]]|impf}}, {{t|ru|[[вы́бросить]] [[из]] [[окно|окна́]]|pf}}, {{t|ru|[[выки́дывать]] [[из]] [[окно|окна́]]|impf}}, {{t|ru|[[вы́кинуть]] [[из]] [[окно|окна́]]|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|defenestrar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|defenestrera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite|Defenestration}}
* {{pedialite|Defenestrations of Prague}}

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|defenestrare||2|p|pres|ind|lang=it}}
# {{inflection of|defenestrare||2|p|imp|lang=it}}