{{see|définition}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''[[diffinicioun#Middle English|diffinicioun]]'', from {{MF.}} ''[[#Middle French|definition]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[definitio#Latin|dēfīnītiō]]'', from ''[[definio#Latin|dēfīniō]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˌdɛfɪˈnɪʃən/}}, {{SAMPA|/%defI"nIS@n/}}
* {{audio|en-us-definition.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{semantics}} A statement of the [[meaning]] of a [[word]] or word group or a sign or symbol ([[dictionary]] definitions).
# A [[statement]] expressing the essential [[nature]] of something.
# The [[action]] or process of defining.
# The act of defining; determination of the limits.
# A [[product]] of defining.
# The action or power of describing, explaining, or making definite and [[clear]].
#: ''Her comic genius is beyond '''definition'''.''
# Clarity of visual presentation, distinctness of outline or detail.
#: ''The '''definition''' of a telescope.''
#: ''Improve the '''definition''' of an image.''
# Clarity, especially of [[musical]] [[sound]] in reproduction.
# Sharp [[demarcation]] of outlines or limits.
#: ''A jacket with distinct waist '''definition'''.''
# {{bodybuilding}} The degree to which individual [[muscle]]s are [[distinct]] on the [[body]].

====Related terms====
* [[definiendum]]
* [[definiens]]

====Derived terms====
* [[stipulative definition]]
* [[intensional definition]]
* [[extensional definition]]
* [[ostensive definition]]
* [[recursive definition]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|statement of the meaning of a word or word group or a sign or symbol}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|定意|定意}} ([[dìng]][[yì]]); {{zh-ts|[[釋]][[義]]|[[释]][[意]]}} ([[shì]][[yì]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|definice|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määritelmä}}
* Hebrew: [[הגדרה]] (hagdara) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: 
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|پێناسه‌|tr=paenAsa|sc=KUchar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|определение|n|tr=opr'ed'el'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|statement expressing the essential nature of something}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[定]][[意]]|[[定]][[意]]}} ([[dìng]][[yì]]) 
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määritelmä}}
* Hebrew: [[הגדרה]] (hagdara) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|определение|n|tr=opr'ed'el'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|action or process of defining}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[下]][[定]][[意]]|[[下]][[定]][[意]]}} ([[xià]][[dìng]][[yì]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|definice|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määrittely}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|определение|n|tr=opr'ed'el'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of defining}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[下]][[定]][[意]]|[[下]][[定]][[意]]}} ([[xià]][[dìng]][[yì]])
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määrittely}}
* Hebrew: [[הגדרה]] (hagdara) {{f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}, [[il definire]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|определение|n|tr=opr'ed'el'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|product of defining}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[定]][[意]]|[[定]][[意]]}} ([[dìng]][[yì]]) 
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määritelmä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|определение|n|tr=opr'ed'el'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|action or power of describing, explaining, or making definite}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[下]][[定]][[意]]|[[下]][[定]][[意]]}} ([[xià]][[dìng]][[yì]])
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|määrittely}}
* Italian: [[livello di definizione]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|объяснение|n|tr=objasn'énije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clarity of visual presentation, distinctness of outline or detail}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|清晰|清晰}} ([[qīng]][[xī]])
* Finnish: [[tarkkuus]], [[erottelukyky]]
* Italian: [[definizione]] {{f}}, [[definitezza]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|разрешение|n|tr=razr'ešénije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clarity, especially of musical sound in reproduction}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|清晰|清晰}} ([[qīng]][[xī]])
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kirkkaus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|definizione|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sharp demarcation of outlines or limits}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|清晰|清晰}} ([[qīng]][[xī]])
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rajaus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[definitezza]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bodybuilding: the degree to which individual muscles are distinct}}
* Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[清晰]][[度]]|[[清晰]][[度]]}} ([[qīng]][[xī]][[dù]])
* Finnish: [[erottuvuus]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[definicija]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: {{t-|da|definition}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: {{t|nl|definitie|f}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[définition]], definition (Middle French)
*{{ttbc|German}}: {{t+|de|Definition|f}}
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[defino]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[定義]] (ていぎ, teigi), [[語義]] (ごぎ, gogi)
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: {{t-|la|definitio}}, {{t-|la|definitionis}}
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[definisjon]]
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[definitione]]
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: {{t|pl|definicja|f}}
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: {{t|pt|definição|f}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: {{t-|ro|definiţie|f}}
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[definícia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[definicija]] {{f}}, [[opredelitev]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t-|es|definición|f}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[నిర్వచనము]] (nirvachanamu)
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[diffiniad]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
'''definition'''

# {{fi-form of|type=noun|case=genitive|pl=singular|[[definitio]]}}

----

==Middle French==

===Noun===
'''definition'''

# [[#English|Definition]].

===Descendants===
* French: [[définition]]

[[ar:definition]]
[[cy:definition]]
[[fr:definition]]
[[io:definition]]
[[id:definition]]
[[lt:definition]]
[[hu:definition]]
[[ja:definition]]
[[pl:definition]]
[[pt:definition]]
[[ru:definition]]
[[simple:definition]]
[[fi:definition]]
[[sv:definition]]
[[ta:definition]]
[[te:definition]]
[[vi:definition]]
[[tr:definition]]
[[zh:definition]]