==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro}} (compare French {{term|demeurer}}), from {{etyl|la}}<ref>[http://machaut.uchicago.edu/?action=search&word=demur&resource=Webster%27s&quicksearch=on Etymology in] Webster's dictionary</ref>{{term|demorari|tr=to tarry}} {{term|de-}} + {{term|morari}}, to delay.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|dĭmûrʹ}}, {{IPA|/dɪˈmɜː/}}, {{SAMPA|/dI"m3:/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɜː(r)}}
; not as [[demure#Pronunciation]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|demur|r|ing}}

# {{context|intransitive|obsolete}} To linger; to stay; to tarry
#: "Yet durst not '''demur''' nor abide upon the camp. - [[Nicols?]]
# {{intransitive}} To delay; to pause; to suspend proceedings or judgment in view of a doubt or difficulty; to hesitate; to put off the determination or conclusion of an affair.
#: Upon this rub, the English embassadors thought fit to '''demur'''. - [[Hayward?]]
# {{intransitive}} To scruple or object; to take exception; to oppose; to balk
#: ''I '''demur''' to that [[statement]].''
#: ''The personnel '''demurred''' at the management's new scheme.''
# {{context|intransitive|legal}} To interpose a demurrer. See [[demurrer]].
# {{intransitive}} To balk; to oppose.
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To suspend judgment concerning; to doubt of or hesitate about
#: The latter I '''demur''', for in their looks Much reason, and in their actions, oft appears. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To cause delay to; to put off
#: He demands a fee, And then '''demurs''' me with a vain delay. - [[Quarles?]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|{{intransitive}} To delay; to pause; to suspend proceedings }}
* Bulgarian:,  {{t|bg|колебая се}},  {{t|bg|отлагам}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|{{intransitive}} To balk; to oppose.}}
* Bulgarian:,  {{t|bg|противя се}},  {{t|bg|опъвам се}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|{{context|transitive|obsolete}} To cause delay to; to put off}}
* Bulgarian:,  {{t|bg|отлагам}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# [[Stop]]; pause; hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple.
#: All my '''demurs''' but double his attacks; At last he whispers, ``Do; and we go snacks.'' - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]
#: She agreed to his request without '''demur'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple}}
* Bulgarian:,  {{t+|bg|колебание|n}},  {{t|bg|скрупули|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[demureness]]

===References===
<references/>

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|dēmur}}

# {{conjugation of|do|dō|1|p|pres|pass|sub|lang=la}}

[[fa:demur]]
[[kn:demur]]
[[ml:demur]]
[[my:demur]]
[[fi:demur]]
[[te:demur]]
[[th:demur]]
[[vi:demur]]
[[zh:demur]]