{{wikipedia|dab=deposit}}
==English==
===Alternative forms===
*[[deposite]] {{i|17th-19th centuries}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} ''[[depositus]]'', past participle of ''[[deponere]]'' which is "to put down".

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-deposit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɒzɪt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Sediment or rock that is not native to its present location or is different from the surrounding material.  Sometimes refers to [[ore]] or [[gem]]s.
# asset that was left to the care of the other <!--this definition could use so much improvement, I'm not sure what it means-->
# {{banking}} Money placed in an account.
# {{banking}} The act of placing money into an account.
# Anything left behind on a surface.
#: ''a mineral '''deposit'''''
#: ''a '''deposit''' of seaweed on the shore''
# {{finance}} A sum of money or other asset given as an initial payment, to show good faith, or to reserve something for purchase.
#: ''They put a '''deposit''' on the apartment.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sediment or rock different from the surrounding material}}
* Dutch: [[afzetting]] {{f}}, [[neerzetting]] {{f}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sadestis}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|esiintymä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dépôt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[deposito]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|depósito|m}}
* Romanian: [[depozit]] {{n}}, [[depunere]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|месторождение|n|tr=m'estorožd'énije}}, {{t|ru|залежь|f|tr=zálež}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|asset that was left to the care of the other}}
* Dutch: [[storting]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|talletus}}, {{t+|fi|pano}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dépôt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[deposito]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|depósito|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|money placed in an account}}
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|存款|tr=cúnkuǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vklad|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|預金|tr=yokin}},  {{t+|ja|デポジット|tr=depojitto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|депозит|m|tr=depozít}},  {{t|ru|вклад|m|tr=vklad}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[sedimento]], gajo-pekunio
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[depósito]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[refundable]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To leave or adhere one material or item onto another.
#: ''He '''deposited''' his gum on the bottom of the table.''
# To entrust one's [[asset]]s to the care of another.  Sometimes done as [[collateral]].
# {{transitive}} To put money or funds into an account.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to settle one material onto another}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afzetten}}, {{t+|nl|neerzetten}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déposer}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[depositar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|depositar}}
* Romanian: [[a depozita]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to entrust one's assets to the care of another}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|storten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tallettaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déposer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[depositar]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|depositar}}
* Romanian: [[a lăsa în îngrijire]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to put money or funds into an account}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أودع|tr='awda3a}}
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|存款|tr=cúnkuǎn|sc=Hani}}, {{zh-tsp|儲蓄|储蓄|chǔxù}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vložit}}
* German: {{t+|de|einzahlen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|預金する|tr=yokin-suru}}, {{t|ja|預け入れる|tr=azuke-ireru}}, {{t|ja|預ける|tr=azukeru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|вкладывать|tr=vkládyvat'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|вложить|tr=vložít'}} {{pf}}, {{t|ru|депонировать|tr=deponírovat'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|класть|tr=klast'}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|положить|tr=položít'}} {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[a depune]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[posited]]

===Antonyms===
* [[withdrawal]]

[[ar:deposit]]
[[de:deposit]]
[[el:deposit]]
[[fa:deposit]]
[[fr:deposit]]
[[ko:deposit]]
[[io:deposit]]
[[it:deposit]]
[[kk:deposit]]
[[sw:deposit]]
[[ku:deposit]]
[[hu:deposit]]
[[ml:deposit]]
[[pl:deposit]]
[[ru:deposit]]
[[fi:deposit]]
[[ta:deposit]]
[[te:deposit]]
[[tr:deposit]]
[[vi:deposit]]
[[zh:deposit]]