==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Derivative (disambiguation)|mul=Derivative}}

===Etymology===
Middle English, from {{etyl|fr|en}} ''dérivatif'' and {{etyl|la|en}} ''derivatus''; see '''[[derive]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/dɪˈɹɪvətɪv/}}
* {{audio|en-us-derivative.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[imitative|Imitative]] of the work of someone else.
# {{legal|copyright}} Referring to a work, such as a translation or adaptation, based on another work that may be subject to copyright restrictions.
# {{finance}} Having a value that depends on an underlying asset of variable value.
# Lacking originality.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Something [[derive|derived]].
# {{linguistics}} A word that derives from another one.
# {{finance}} A [[financial instrument]] whose value depends on the valuation of an [[underlying]] [[asset]]; such as a [[warrant]], an [[option]] etc.
# {{chemistry}} A [[chemical]] derived from another.
# {{calculus}} The [[derived function]] of a [[function]].
#: ''The derivative of <math>f:f(x) = x^2</math> is <math>f':f'(x) = 2x</math>''
# {{calculus}} The value of this function for a given value of its independent variable.
#: ''The derivative of <math>f(x) = x^2</math> at x = 3 is <math>f'(3) = 2 * 3 = 6</math>.''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|something derived}} [[spinoff]]
* {{sense|finance}} [[contingent claim]]
* {{sense|in analysis: function}} [[derived function]]

====Derived terms====
* [[arithmetic derivative]]
* [[directional derivative]]
* [[exterior derivative]]
* [[Gâteaux derivative]]
* [[partial derivative]]
* [[symmetric derivative]]
* [[time derivative]]
* [[total derivative]]
* [[weak derivative]]

====Antonyms====
* [[coincidental]]

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|finance}} [[option]], [[warrant]], [[swap]], [[convertible security]], [[convertible]], [[convertible bond]], [[credit default swap]], [[credit line note]], [[financial futures contract]], [[financial future]], [[total return swap]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|something derived}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|производно|n}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|衍生物|tr=yánshēngwù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|afgeleide|f}}, {{t+|nl|derivaat|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|derivaĵo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tuletis}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|johdannainen}}, {{t|fi|johdos}}, {{t|fi|derivaatti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ableitung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|derivato|m}}, {{t+|it|derivata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|派生|tr=hasei|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|pochodny}}, {{t|pl|wtórny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|derivado|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|derivat|m}}, {{t-|ro|derivată|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|производное|n|tr=proizvódnoje|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|derivado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|word that derives from another}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|派生詞|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|派生词|tr=páishēngcí|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|odvozenina|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afleiding|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|derivaĵo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tuletis}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johdos}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ableitung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|származékszó}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|derivato|m}}, {{t+|it|derivata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|派生語|tr=hasei-go|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|derywat|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|derivat|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|дериват|m|tr=derivát|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|производное слово|n|tr=proizvódnoje slóvo|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|avledning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|financial instrument whose value depends on the valuation of an underlying instrument}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|derivát|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johdannainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Derivat|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|デリバティブ|tr=deribatibu}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дериватив|m|tr=derivatív}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|chemical derived from another}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ածանցյալ|tr=acancʿyal|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|производно}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johdos}}, {{t+|fi|johdannainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abkömmling|m}}, {{t+|de|Derivat|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|derivato|m}}, {{t+|it|derivata|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|誘導体|tr=yūdotai|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pochodna|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|derivat|n}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|производное|n|tr=proizvódnoje|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|дериват|m|tr=derivát|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|derivat|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|in analysis: function|derived function}}
{{trans-top|in analysis: value}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ածանցյալ|tr=acancʿyal|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|производна|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|derivace|f}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tuletis}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|derivaatta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dérivée|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ableitung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|נגזרת|f|tr=nigzéret}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|derivata|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|derivada|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|производная|f|tr=proizvódnaja|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|odvod|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|derivada|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|derivata|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|türev}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{qualifier|1-4}} {{t|es|derivativo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
'''derivative''' {{f}}

# Feminine plural form of [[derivativo]]

[[Category:Italian adjective forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|dērīvātīve}}

# {{inflection of|derivativus|dērīvātīvus|voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[ar:derivative]]
[[zh-min-nan:derivative]]
[[cy:derivative]]
[[et:derivative]]
[[el:derivative]]
[[fa:derivative]]
[[fr:derivative]]
[[ko:derivative]]
[[io:derivative]]
[[it:derivative]]
[[kn:derivative]]
[[lt:derivative]]
[[li:derivative]]
[[hu:derivative]]
[[mg:derivative]]
[[ml:derivative]]
[[my:derivative]]
[[pl:derivative]]
[[ru:derivative]]
[[fi:derivative]]
[[sv:derivative]]
[[ta:derivative]]
[[te:derivative]]
[[tr:derivative]]
[[vi:derivative]]
[[zh:derivative]]