{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|fr}} ''[[deux]]'' (two), from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[deus]]'', from  {{etyl|la}} ''[[duo]]''.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/djuːs/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/duːs/}}, (US) SAMPA:/dus/
* {{audio|en-us-deuce.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|uːs}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{cards}} A card with two spots, one of four in a standard deck of playing cards.
# {{context|dice}} A side of a dice with two spots.
# {{context|dice}} A cast of dice totalling two.
# The number [[two]].
# {{tennis}} A tie, both players have the same number of points and one can win by scoring two additional points.
# {{baseball}} A [[curveball]]
# (custom cars) A '32 Ford<ref>Geisert, Eric. "The California Spyder", in ''Street Rodder'', 8/99, p.34; Mayall, Joe. "Driving Impression: Reproduction Deuce Hiboy", in ''Rod Action'', 2/78, p.26.</ref> in plural,  2-[[Venturi effect|barrel]] (twin-choke) [[carburetor]]s (in the term 3 deuces, an arrangement on a common [[intake manifold]]).

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|playing card}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|dvojka|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|двойка|f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dvojka|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dvojka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kakkonen}}, {{t+|fi|sorsa}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dwójka|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[dois]] (2,4)
* Russian: {{t|ru|двойка|f|tr=dvójka}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[двојка#Serbian|двојка]] {{f}}
*: Latin: [[dvojka#Serbian|dvojka]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|dvojka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dos}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|side of a dice with two spots}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kakkonen}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dwójka|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|двойка|f|tr=dvójka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cast of dice totalling two}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kakkonen}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dwójka|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|двойка|f|tr=dvójka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|number two}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|dvojka|f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dvojka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kakkonen}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|duo|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dois}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|двойка|f|tr=dvójka}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|dvojka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dos}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tennis: tie, both players able to win by scoring two additional points}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tasatilanne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|égalité|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Einstand|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[równowaga]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|равный счёт|m|tr=rávnyj š'ot}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: curveball}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[двойка#Bulgarian|двойка]] {{f}} (2,4), [[епек#Bulgarian|епек]] {{m}} (3)
* {{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*: Cyrillic: [[двојка#Serbian|двојка]] {{f}} (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Cf. {{LL.}} ''[[dusius]]'' (phantom, specter); Gael. ''[[taibhs]], [[taibhse]]'' (apparition, ghost); or from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[deus]]'' (God), from {{etyl|la}} ''[[deus]]'' (cf. ''[[deity]]''.)

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/djuːs/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/duːs/}}, (US) SAMPA:/dus/
* {{audio|en-us-deuce.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|uːs}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|epithet}} The Devil, used in exclamations of confusion or anger
#: ''Love is a bodily infirmity . . . which breaks out the '''deuce''' knows how or why'' (Thackeray)

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Devil, used in exclamations of confusion or anger}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piru}}
* Polish: [[diabeł]] {{m}}, [[licho]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[diabos]], [[mas que inferno]], [[demônio]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* (etymology) {{R:Webster 1913}}
<references/>

[[fr:deuce]]
[[io:deuce]]
[[it:deuce]]
[[hu:deuce]]
[[pl:deuce]]
[[ru:deuce]]
[[fi:deuce]]
[[te:deuce]]
[[vi:deuce]]
[[zh:deuce]]