==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-device.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{IPA|/dəˈvaɪs/}}
* {{rhymes|aɪs}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fro}} {{term|devis|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|divisus|lang=la}}, past participle of {{term|dividere||to divide|lang=la}}, thus originally, when goods were being ''divided'' among people, a mark put on each item to say who was getting what.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Any piece of [[equipment]] made for a particular purpose, especially a mechanical or electrical one.
#* '''1949'''. ''Geneva Convention on Road Traffic'' [[wikisource:Geneva Convention on Road Traffic#CHAPTER VI. PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CYCLES IN INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC|Chapter VI. Provisions Applicable to Cycles in International Traffic]]
#*: Every cycle shall be equipped with: ... (b) an audible warning '''device''' consisting of a bell ...
#: ''There are a number of household '''devices''' in a kitchen such as a dishwasher, a garbage disposal, or an electric can opener.''
# A [[project]] or [[scheme]], often designed to deceive; a [[stratagem]]; an [[artifice]].
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Jeremiah|51|11}}
#*: His '''device''' is against Babylon, to destroy it.
#* '''1827''' Hallam, Henry, [[s:The English Constitution|''The English Constitution'']], Harper
#*: Their recent '''device''' of demanding benevolences.
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Job|5|12}}
#*: He disappointeth the '''devices''' of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise.
# {{rhetoric}} A technique that an author or speaker uses to evoke an emotional response in the audience; a [[rhetorical]] '''device'''.
# {{senseid|en|heraldry}}{{heraldry}} A [[motto]], [[emblem]], or other mark used to distinguish the bearer from others. A device differs from a [[badge]] or [[cognizance]] primarily because as it is a personal distinction, and not a badge borne by members of the same house successively.
#* '''1736'''. O'Callaghan, Edmund Bailey. ''The Documentary History of the State of New York'' [[wikisource:The Documentary History of the State of New York/Volume I/Chapter I/Article III|Chapter I, Article III: Enumeration of the Indian Tribes]].
#*: The '''devices''' of these savages are the serpent, the Deer, and the Small Acorn.
# {{archaic}} Power of [[devising]]; invention; contrivance.
#* '''1824'''. Landor, Walter Savage "King Henry IV and Sir Arnold Savage" from ''Imaginary Conversations of Literary Men and Statesmen'', page 44
#*: Moreover I must have instruments of mine own '''device''', weighty, and exceeding costly
#* '''1976'''. The Eagles, "Hotel California"
#*: And she said,
#*: "We are all prisoners here,
#*: Of our own '''device'''"
# {{legal}} An image used in whole or in part as a [[trademark]] or service mark.
# {{printing}} An image or logo denoting official or proprietary authority or provenience.
#* '''1943''' United States Post Office Department. ''A Description of United States Postage Stamps / Issued by the Post Office Department from July 1, 1847, to April 1, 1945 [sic]'', USGPO, Washington, p1:
#*: Prior to the issuance of the first stamps, letters accepted by postmasters for dispatch were marked "Paid" by means of pen and ink or hand stamps of various designs. [...] To facilitate the handling of mail matter, some postmasters provided special stamps or '''devices''' for use on letters as evidence of the prepayment of postage.
# {{obsolete}} A spectacle or [[show]].
#: {{rfquotek|Beaumont and Flanders}}
# {{obsolete}} Opinion; decision.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|piece of equipment}} [[apparatus]], [[appliance]], [[equipment]], [[gadget]], [[design]], [[contrivance]]
* {{sense|project or scheme}} [[scheme]], [[project]], [[stratagem]], [[artifice]]
* {{sense|obsolete, power of devising}} [[invention]], [[contrivance]]

====Derived terms====
{{top3}}
* [[biodevice]]
* [[device driver]]
{{mid3}}
* [[electronic device]]
* [[framing device]]
* [[intrauterine device]]
{{mid3}}
* [[literary device]]
* [[nondevice]]
* [[peripheral device]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|piece of equipment}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|أداة|f|tr=’adaa}}, {{t-|ar|جهاز|tr=jihaaz}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սարք|tr=sark'}}, {{t-|hy|սարքավորում|tr=sark'avorum}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|устройство|n}}, {{t+|bg|приспособление|n}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|裝置|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|装置|tr=zhuāngzhì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zařízení|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toestel}}, {{t+|nl|apparaat}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|aparato}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laite}}
* French: {{t+|fr|appareil|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|aparello|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|მექანიზმი|tr=mek‘anizmi|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gerät|n}}, {{t+|de|Apparat|m}}, {{t+|de|Einheit|f}}, {{t+|de|Instrument|n}}, {{t+|de|Baustein|m}}, {{t+|de|Vorrichtung|f}}, {{t+|de|Einrichtung|f}}, {{t+|de|Hilfsmittel|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συσκευή|f|tr=syskeví}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מתקן|m|tr=mitkan}}, {{t-|he|מכשיר|m|tr=makhshir}}
* {{trreq|hi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|készülék}}, {{t+|hu|szerkezet}}, {{t+|hu|gépezet}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|apparecchio|m}}, {{t-|it|congegno|m}}, {{t+|it|dispositivo|m}}, {{t+|it|periferica|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|装置|tr=そうち, sōchi}}, {{t+|ja|デバイス|tr=debaisu}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|уред|m|tr=úred|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|alat}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|افزاره|tr=afzáre}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|urządzenie|n}}, {{t+|pl|przyrząd|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aparelho}}, {{t+|pt|dispositivo|m}}, {{t+|pt|aparato}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|aparat|n}}, {{t+|ro|piesă|f}}, {{t-|ro|dispozitiv|n}}, {{t+|ro|element|n}} (de construcție), {{t-|ro|componentă|f}}, {{t-|ro|unitate|f}} (componentă)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|устройство|n|tr=ustrójstvo}}, {{t+|ru|приспособление|n|tr=prisposoblénie}}, {{t-|ru|девайс|m|tr=devájs}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|uređaj|m|tr=уређај|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dispositivo|m}}, {{t+|es|mecanismo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|apparat|c}}, {{t+|sv|redskap|n}}, {{t+|sv|husgeråd|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|aygıt}}, {{t+|tr|alet}}, {{t+|tr|cihaz}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|пристрій|m|tr=prystrij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|project or scheme}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|план|m}}, {{t+|bg|проект|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|intrigo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suunnitelma}}, {{t+|fi|juoni}}
* French: {{t+|fr|stratagème|m}}, {{t+|fr|ruse|f}}, {{t+|fr|manœuvre|f}}, {{t+|fr|artifice|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Instrument|n}}, {{t+|de|Kunstgriff|m}}, {{t+|de|Vorrichtung|f}}, {{t+|de|Einrichtung|f}}, {{t+|de|Hilfsmittel|n}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|cleas|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|plan|c}}, {{t-|sv|föresats|c}}, {{t+|sv|knep|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rhetorical device}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tehokeino}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hilfsmittel|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אמצעי רטורי|m|tr=emca'í retóri|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|eszköz}}, {{t+|hu|mód}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|procedimento|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|фигура|f|tr=figúra|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|mk|средство|n|tr=srédstvo|sc=Cyrl}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dispositivo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приём|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=prijóm}}, {{t+|ru|фигура|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=figúra|alt=фигу́ра}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|retorisk figur|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|heraldry: personal motto or emblem}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|девиз|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tunnus}}
* German: {{t+|de|Motto|n}}, {{t+|de|Emblem|n}}, {{t+|de|Devise|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|девиза|f|tr=devíza|sc=Cyrl}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|девиз|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=devíz|alt=деви́з}} ''motto''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|devis|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|law: image used in whole or part as a trademark or service mark}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tunnusmerkki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Emblem|n}}, {{t+|de|Marke|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: spectacle or show}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: opinion; decision}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: power of devising}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|el}}: {{t+|el|επινόημα|n|tr=epinoema|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|τέχνασμα|n|tr=tekhnasma|sc=Grek}} (1), {{t+|el|μεταφορά|f|tr=metafora|sc=Grek}} (2), {{t+|el|σήμα|n|tr=sema|sc=Grek}} (3), {{t+|el|έμβλημα|n|tr=emvlema|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|οικόσημο|n|tr=oikosemo|sc=Grek}} (3,4), {{t+|el|συσκευή|f|tr=siskeve|sc=Grek}} (7,8,9), {{t+|el|μηχανισμός|m|tr=mekhanismos|sc=Grek}} (8)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: {{t-|no|innretning}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t+|pt|aparelho|m}}, {{t+|pt|dispositivo|m}}
* {{ttbc|th}}: {{t+|th|เครื่องมือ|sc=Thai}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Slovene==

===Noun===
{{head|sl|noun form|g=f}}

# {{sl-form-noun|g|s|devica}}
# {{sl-form-noun|n|p|devica}}
# {{sl-form-noun|a|p|devica}}

[[ang:device]]
[[ar:device]]
[[cs:device]]
[[et:device]]
[[el:device]]
[[es:device]]
[[eo:device]]
[[fa:device]]
[[fr:device]]
[[ko:device]]
[[io:device]]
[[it:device]]
[[kn:device]]
[[kk:device]]
[[ku:device]]
[[lt:device]]
[[hu:device]]
[[mg:device]]
[[ml:device]]
[[my:device]]
[[ja:device]]
[[pl:device]]
[[pt:device]]
[[ru:device]]
[[simple:device]]
[[fi:device]]
[[sv:device]]
[[ta:device]]
[[te:device]]
[[tr:device]]
[[vi:device]]
[[zh:device]]