{{selfref|See [[Wiktionary:Dialects]] for the treatment of dialects on Wiktionary.}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|dialecte|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|dialectos|lang=la}}, {{term|dialectus|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|διάλεκτος||conversation, the language of a country or a place or a nation, the local idiom which derives from a dominant language|lang=grc}}, from {{term|διαλέγομαι||I participate in a dialogue|lang=grc}}, from {{term|διά||inter, through|lang=grc}} + {{term|λέγω||I speak|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈdaɪ.ə.ˌlɛkt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-dialect.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} A variety of a [[language]] (specifically, often a spoken variety) that is characteristic of a particular area, community or group, often with relatively minor differences in vocabulary, style, spelling and pronunciation.
#* ''A language is a '''dialect''' with an army and a navy.''
#* {{quote-book|year=1988|author=Andrew Radford|title=Transformational grammar: a first course|location=Cambridge, UK|publisher=Cambridge University Press|page=139}}
#*: And in addition, many '''dialects''' of English make no morphological distinction between Adjectives and Adverbs, and thus use Adjectives in contexts where the standard language requires ''-ly'' Adverbs: cf.<br> (81) (a) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tex talks ''really quickly'' [Adverb + Adverb]<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (b) &nbsp;&nbsp;%Tex talks ''real quick'' [Adjective + Adjective]
# A dialect of a language perceived as substandard and wrong.
#* Roger W. Shuy, ''Discovering American dialects'', National Council of Teachers of English, 1967, page 1:
#*: Many even deny it and say something like this: "No, we don't speak a '''dialect''' around here. <nowiki>[...]</nowiki>
#* ''Linguistic perspectives on black English'', H. Carl, 1975, pg. 219:
#*: Well, those children don't speak '''dialect''', not in this school. Maybe in the public schools, but not here.
#* H. Nigel Thomas, ''Spirits in the dark'', Heinemann, 1994, pg. 11:
#*: <nowiki>[...]</nowiki> on the second day, Miss Anderson gave the school a lecture on why it was wrong to speak '''dialect'''. She had ended by saying "Respectable people don't speak '''dialect'''."
# A {{l/en|regional}} or {{l/en|minority}} language.

====Usage notes====
* The difference between a language and a dialect is not always clear, but it is generally considered that people who speak different dialects can understand each other, while people who speak different languages cannot. Compare '''[[species]]''' in the biological sense.

====Derived terms====
* [[dialectal]]
* [[dialectic]]

====Related terms====
* [[dialectally]]
* [[dialectical]]
* [[dialectician]]
* [[dialectics]]

====See also====
* [[dialogue]]
* [[ethnolect]]
* [[idiolect]]
* [[sociolect]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|variety of a language}}
* Acehnese: {{t|ace|lugat}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|لهجة|f|tr=láhja}} (Egyptian Arabic: ''láhga''), {{t|ar|عامية|f|tr=ʿāmmíyya}}, {{t|ar|دارجة|f|tr=dārija}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|բարբառ|tr=barbaṙ}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|dialeutu|m}}, {{t|ast|dialectu|m}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|ləhcə}}, {{t+|az|dialekt}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|дыялект|m|tr=dyjaljékt|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|диалект|m|tr=dialékt}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|dialecte|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Dungan: {{t|dng|фон-ян|tr=fon-yan|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|方言|tr=fāngyán|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|suffix}} {{t+|cmn|話|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|话|tr=-huà|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nářečí|n}}, {{t+|cs|dialekt|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|dialekt|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dialect|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|dialekto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murre}}, {{t|fi|aluemurre}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dialecte|m}}, {{t+|fr|patois|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|dialecto|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დიალექტი|tr=dialek'ti|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Dialekt|m}}, {{t+|de|Mundart|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διάλεκτος|f|tr=diálektos}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ניב|m|tr=niv}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|उपभाषा|f|tr=upabhāṣā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nyelvjárás}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|mállýska|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|dialek}}, {{t+|id|logat}}
* Istriot: {{t|ist|gialìto|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dialetto|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|方言|tr=[[ほうげん]], hōgen}}, {{qualifier|suffix}} {{t+|ja|弁|alt=-弁|tr=-べん, -ben}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|dgialecte|m}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ប្រាក្រឹត|tr=bra kruet|sc=Khmr}}, {{t|km|គ្រាមភាសា|tr=kream phea sa|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|사투리|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|방언|sc=Kore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|زاراو|tr=zaraw|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|оогон}}
* Latin: {{t|la|dialectos|f}}, {{t|la|dialectus|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|dialekts|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|tarmė|f}}, {{t|lt|dialektas|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|дијалект|m|tr=dijalékt}}, {{t|mk|наречје|n|tr=nárečje}}, {{t|mk|говор|m|tr=góvor}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|djalett|m}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|аялгуу|tr=ajalguu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|dialekt|m}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|dialècte|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|لهجه|tr=lahje|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|گویش|tr=guyeš|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dialekt|m}}, {{t+|pl|narzecze|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dialeto|m}} {{qualifier|Brazil}}, {{t+|pt|dialecto|m}} {{qualifier|Portugal}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|dialect}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|диалект|m|tr=dialékt}}, {{t+|ru|наречие|n|tr=naréčije}}, {{t+|ru|говор|m|tr=góvor}}
* Santali: {{t|sat|ᱵᱳᱞᱤ|tr=boli|sc=Olck}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dualchainnt|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|наречје|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|нарјечје|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|дијалект|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|narečje|n}}, {{t+|sh|narječje|n}}, {{t+|sh|dijalekt|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|nárečie|n}}, {{t|sk|dialekt|m}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|naréčje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dialecto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dialekt|c}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ภาษาถิ่น|tr=paa-săa tìn|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|lehçe}}, {{t|tr|ağgan}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|діалект|m|tr=dialékt|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|наріччя|n|tr=naríččja|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|говір|m|tr=hóvir|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|thổ ngư}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|dialeg}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|tafodiaith|f}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|דיאַלעקט|m|tr=dialekt|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[citadel#English|citadel]], [[deltaic#English|deltaic]], [[edictal#English|edictal]], [[lactide#English|lactide]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˌdijaˈlɛkt/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-dialect.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|n|-en|dialectje}}

# [[#English|dialect]]
# [[slang]]

====Synonyms====
* [[streektaal]] (1)

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|ro}} {{term|dialecte|lang=fr}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|dialecte}}

# {{l/en|dialect}}

====See also====
* {{l|ro|idiom}}, {{l|ro|grai}}, {{l|ro|limbaj}}, {{l|ro|limbă}}

[[ar:dialect]]
[[cs:dialect]]
[[cy:dialect]]
[[de:dialect]]
[[et:dialect]]
[[el:dialect]]
[[eo:dialect]]
[[fr:dialect]]
[[ko:dialect]]
[[hy:dialect]]
[[io:dialect]]
[[id:dialect]]
[[it:dialect]]
[[kn:dialect]]
[[ku:dialect]]
[[lt:dialect]]
[[hu:dialect]]
[[mg:dialect]]
[[ml:dialect]]
[[mn:dialect]]
[[my:dialect]]
[[nl:dialect]]
[[ja:dialect]]
[[no:dialect]]
[[oc:dialect]]
[[km:dialect]]
[[pl:dialect]]
[[pt:dialect]]
[[ro:dialect]]
[[ru:dialect]]
[[simple:dialect]]
[[fi:dialect]]
[[sv:dialect]]
[[ta:dialect]]
[[te:dialect]]
[[th:dialect]]
[[tr:dialect]]
[[vi:dialect]]
[[zh:dialect]]