{{also|Dies|díes|dies.}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/daɪz/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-dies.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{homophones|en|dyes}}
* {{rhymes|en|aɪz|s=1}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-third-person singular of|die}}

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun form}}

# {{plural of|en|die}} {{q|when used in the sense of a pattern}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=deis|-side|Desi|EIDs|Eids|IDEs|IEDs|Ides|SEID|Side|deis|desi|eids|ides|side|sied}}

----

==Catalan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{ca-IPA}}

===Noun===
{{head|ca|noun form}}

# {{plural of|ca|dia}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|[ˈdiːs]}}
* {{audio|de|De-dies.ogg|Audio}}
* {{audio|de|De-dies.ogg|Audio (Berlin)}}
* {{rhymes|de|iːs|s=1}}

===Pronoun===
{{de-pronoun}}

# {{alt form|de|dieses}}

====Usage notes====
* In the nominative and accusative neuter, the forms ''dieses'' and ''dies'' are in general interchangeable, but there is a tendency to prefer one or the other in the following situations:
:* In adjectival usage, ''dieses'' is generally preferred to ''dies''. So ''dieses Haus'' ("this house") is more common than the also correct and synonymic ''dies Haus''.
:* In substantival usage, ''dieses'' is used to refer to a previously used neuter noun:
::: ''Unser Unternehmen sollte das Gebäude verkaufen. Wir können '''dieses''' nicht mehr gebrauchen.''
:::: Our company should sell the building. We cannot make use of it anymore.
:* ''Dies'' is used to refer to a preceding context or phrase:
::: ''Unser Unternehmen sollte das Gebäude verkaufen. '''Dies''' würde uns viel Geld einbringen.''
:::: Our company should sell the building. This would earn us a lot of money.
:* ''Dies'' is also used to refer to something the speaker perceives with the senses ([[exophoric]] use, [[deixis]]):
::: ''Sieh dir '''dies''' mal an!'' – Have a look at this! (e.g. a newspaper article)
::: '''''Dies''' sind meine Kinder.'' – These are my children. (regular use of the neuter singular with a [[copula]] verb)
:* The above habits are mainly true of formal speech and writing. Colloquially, the shorter ''dies'' is often preferred, but the pronouns {{m|de|das}} and {{m|de|es}} are even more common.

===Further reading===
* {{R:Duden}}

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
{{root|la|ine-pro|*dyew-}}
Back-formed from the accusative {{m|la|diem}} (at a time when the vowel was still long), from {{der|la|itc-pro|*djēm}}, the accusative of {{m|itc-pro|*djous}}, from {{der|la|ine-pro|*dyḗws||heaven, sky}}.<ref>{{R:la:WH|vol=1|pages=349-351}}</ref> The original nominative survives as {{m|la|*diūs}} in two fossilised phrases: {{m|la|mediusfidius|mē diūs fidius|pos=an interjection}} and {{m|la|nudius|nū diūs tertius|day before yesterday|lit=now (is) the third day}}. The ''d'' in ''diēs'' is a puzzle with some suggesting dialect borrowing and others referring to an etymon ''*diyew-'' via [[w:Sievers%27 law#Lindeman|Lindeman's Law]]. But note the possible Proto-Italic allophony between ''*-CjV-'' and ''*-CiV-'', which may be the cause for this divergence (''See'' [[WT:AITC]]).

Cognate with {{cog|grc|Ζήν}}, {{cog|xcl|տիւ||daytime}}, {{cog|sga|día}}, {{cog|cy|dydd}}, {{cog|pl|dzień}}, but not {{cog|en|day}} ([[q.v.]]) which is a [[false cognate]]. The Italic stem was also the source of {{m|la|Iovis}}, the genitive of {{m|la|Iuppiter}} and was generally interchangeable with it in earlier times, still shown by the analogical formation {{m|la|Diēspiter}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|diēs}}

===Noun===
{{la-noun|diēs<5>|g=m|g2=f}}

# A [[day]], ''[[particularly]]:''
## A [[solar day|solar]] or [[sidereal day]] of about 24 [[hour]]s, ''[[especially]]'' {{lb|la|historical}} [[Roman]] [[date]]s [[reckon]]ed from one [[midnight]] to the [[next]].
##: {{uxi|la|{{l|la|in}} dies|t=day by day}}
##: {{uxi|la|{{l|la|sub}} diem|t=at daybreak}}
##* {{uxi|la|{{l|la|ante}} '''diem''' III {{l|la|idus}} {{l|la|ianuarias|Ianuarias}}|t=the third '''day''' before the January [[ides]]}}
##* {{uxi|la|{{l|la|prima}} diei {{l|la|hora}}|t=the first hour of day}}
##* {{Q|la|Jerome|Vulgate|Exodus|16|26|quote=Sex '''diēbus''' colligite in '''diē''' autem septimō sabbatum est Dominō idcircō nōn inveniētur.|trans=Six '''days''' ye shall gather it; but on the seventh '''day''', which is the Sabbath, in it there shall be none.}}
##* {{Q|la|Elizabeth I of England|Queen Elizabeth's Latin Speech to the University, at the Conclusion of her Entertainment in St. Mary's Church|9|year=1564 AD|quote=Haec tamen vulgaris sententia me aliquantulum recreavit, quae etsi non auferre, tamen minuere possit dolorem meum, quae quidem sententia haec est, Romam uno '''die''' non fuisse conditam.|t=But this common saying has given me a certain amount of comfort – a saying which cannot take away, but can at least lessen, the grief that I feel; and the saying is, that Rome was not built in one '''day'''.}}
## [[daytime|Daytime]]: a [[period]] of [[light]] between [[sunrise]] and [[sunset]].
##* {{uxi|la|prima '''diei''' hora|t=the first hour of '''day'''}}
## {{lb|la|often in the feminine}} A [[set]] [[day]]: a [[date]], an [[appointment]].

====Usage notes====
* Dates in the Roman calendar were reckoned according to the [[calends]] ({{m|la|kalendae}}), the [[nones]] ({{m|la|nōnae}}), and the [[ides]] ({{m|la|īdūs}}). The calends of every month was its first day; the nones and ides of most months were their 5th and 13th days; and the nones and ides of the four original 31-day months—{{m|la|Mārtius}}, {{m|la|Māius}}, {{m|la|Quīntīlis}} or {{m|la|Iūlius}}, and {{m|la|Octōber}}—were two days later. January 1st was thus {{m|la|kalendae}} {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriae}} or {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriī}}. The day preceding any of these three principal days was called its eve ({{m|la|prīdiē}}). January 12th was thus {{m|la|prīdiē}} {{m|la|īdūs}} {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriās}} or {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriī}} ({{m|la|pr.}} {{m|la|Id.}} {{m|la|Ian.}}). All other days of the month were expressed by counting inclusively forward to the next of these three principal days and, in early Latin, this was expressed in the ablative. January 11th was thus {{m|la|diē}} {{m|la|tertiō}} {{m|la|ante}} {{m|la|īdūs}} {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriās}} or {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriī}} ({{m|la|III}} {{m|la|Id.}} {{m|la|Ian.}}). By the time of classical Latin, however, the {{m|la|ante}} had moved to the beginning of the expression and it became an accusative absolute: {{m|la|ante}} {{m|la|diem}} {{m|la|tertium}} {{m|la|īdūs}} {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriās}} or {{m|la|Ianuarius|Iānuāriī}} ({{m|la|a. d.}} {{m|la|III}} {{m|la|Id.}} {{m|la|Ian}}.).<ref>The British Sundial Society, [http://sundialsoc.org.uk/news/ante-diem-bis-sextum-kalend/ "Ante Diem Bis Sextum Kalendras Martii"], 2016.</ref> In this form, the date functioned as a single indeclinable noun and could serve as the object of prepositions such as {{m|la|ex}} and {{m|la|in}}.<ref>Beck, Charles, [https://books.google.com/books?id=clMQAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover ''Latin Syntax, Chiefly from the German of C. G. Zumpt''] (1838), Boston: Charles C. Little & James Brown, [https://books.google.com/books?id=uJgQAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA176 p. 176].</ref>

* Unlike most fifth-declension nouns, ''diēs'' is not exclusively feminine. It was typically masculine, particularly in the plural. It appears as a feminine noun when being personified as a goddess, in some specific dates, in reference to the passing of time, and occasionally in other contexts.

====Declension====
{{la-ndecl|diēs<5>}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|daytime}} {{l|la|nox}}

====Derived terms====
{{der4|la
|a.d.
|biduus
|carpe diem
|diārium
|diēcula
|diēs Dominica
|diēs Dominicus
|diēs fēstus
|diēs hebdomadis
|diēs intercalārius
|diēs Iovis
|Diēs Īrae
|diēs Lūnae
|diēs Mārtis
|diēs Mercuriī
|diēs Sabbatī
|diēs Sōlis
|diēs Sāturnī
|diēs Veneris
|diurnus
|Hērōdis diēs
|hodiē
|merīdiēs
|nū̆diū̆s
|perendiē
|postrīdiē
|prīdiē
|quadriduum
|sēsquidiēs
|trīduum
}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|la|diū}}
* {{l|la|dōnec}}

====Descendants====
{{top3}}
* Balkan Romance:
** {{desc|rup|dzuã}}
** {{desc|ruo|zi}}
** {{desc|ruq|zuu̯ă}}
** {{desc|ro|zi}}
* Dalmato-Romance:
** {{desc|dlm|dai}}
** {{desc|ist|dèi}}
* Italo-Romance:
** {{desc|roa-oit|die}}
*** {{desc|it|dì||daytime}}
* Padanian:
** {{desc|fur|dì}}
** {{desc|lld|dì}}
** {{desc|lmo|dì}}
** {{desc|pms|di}}
** {{desc|rm|di}}, {{l|rm|gi}}
** {{desc|vec|dì}}
* Northern Gallo-Romance:
** {{desc|frp|di}}
** {{desc|fro|di}}
*** {{desc|fr|midi|der=1||noon}}
** {{desc|pcd|di}}
* Southern Gallo-Romance:
** {{desc|pro|di}}
* Ibero-Romance:
** {{desc|mwl|die}}
* Insular Romance:
** {{desc|sc|dí}}, {{l|sc|die}}
* Vulgar Latin:
** {{desc|la-vul|*dia|nolb=1}} {{see desc}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

====Further reading====
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Elementary Lewis}}
* {{R:du Cange}}
* {{R:Gaffiot}}
* {{R:M&A}}
* {{R:Peck}}
* {{R:Smith's Antiquities}}
* {{R:Sihler 1995}}
* {{R:FEW|30|71|dīes}}
* Enrico Olivetti. [https://www.dizionario-latino.com/dizionario-latino-italiano.php?lemma=DIES100 Dizionario] Latino

{{c|la|Time}}

----

==Latvian==

===Verb===
{{head|lv|verb form}}

# {{lv-inflection of|diet|3rd|s|fut|ind|v}}
# {{lv-inflection of|diet|3rd|p|fut|ind|v}}

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Adverb===
{{dum-adv}}

# [[therefore]], [[because]] of that, for that [[reason]]

===Conjunction===
{{head|dum|conjunction}}

# [[until]]
# [[because]]

===Determiner===
{{head|dum|determiner form}}

# {{inflection of|dum|die||m//n|gen|s}}

===Contraction===
{{head|dum|contraction}}

# {{contraction of|dum|[[die]] [[es]]}}

----

==Northern Sami==

===Determiner===
{{head|se|determiner form}}

# {{inflection of|se|diet||loc|s}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Verb===
{{nb-verb-form}}

# {{infl of|nb|die||passive|form}}

----

==Papiamentu==
{{cardinalbox|pap|9|10|11|nuebe|diesun|ord=}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|pap|es|diez}} and {{der|pap|pt|dez}} and {{der|pap|kea|dés}}.

===Numeral===
{{head|pap|numeral}}

# {{cln|pap|cardinal numbers}} [[ten]] (10)

----

==Romansch==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|rm|VL.|dossum}}, from {{inh|rm|la|dorsum}}. Compare {{cog|fr|dos}}.

===Noun===
{{head|rm|noun|g=m}}

# {{lb|rm|anatomy}} [[back]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|sh|sla-pro|*dьnьsь}}

===Adverb===
{{sh-adverb}}

# {{lb|sh|Kajkavian}} [[today]]