{{wikipedia}}
{{also|dìg|DIG|dIG}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dɪg/}}, {{SAMPA|/dIg/}}
* {{audio|en-us-dig.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪɡ}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[diggen#Middle english|diggen]]'' "to dig", alteration (possibly due to Danish ''[[dige#Danish|dige]]'') of {{etyl|ang}} ''[[dician#Old English|dīcian]]'' "to dig a ditch, to mound up earth" (cf {{ang}} ''[[dicere#Old English|dīcere]]'' "digger") from ''[[dic#Old Enlgish|dīc, dīċ]]'' "dike, ditch" from {{proto|Germanic|dīkaz, dīkian|pool, puddle|lang=en}} from {{proto|Indo-European|dhīgw-, dheigw-|to stab, dig|lang=en}}. Akin to {{etyl|dan|-}} ''[[dige#danish|dige]]'' "to dig, raise a dike", {{etyl|swe|-}} ''[[dika#Swedish|dika]]'' "to dig ditches". Related to, but not derived from {{etyl|frm|-}} ''[[diguer#Middle French|diguer]]'' "to dig", itself a borrowing of the same {{etyl|gem}} root (< {{etyl|dum|-}} ''[[dijk#Middle Dutch|dijk]]''), as the {{frm}} word appears later than the {{enm}} word. More at [[ditch]], [[dike]].

===Verb===
{{en-verb|digs|digging|dug}}

# To move hard-packed earth out of the way, especially downward to make a hole with a shovel.  Or to drill etc. through rocks, roads, etc.
#: ''They '''dug''' an eight foot deep ditch along the side of the road.''
#: ''In the wintertime, heavy truck tires '''dig''' into the road, forming potholes.''
#: ''If the plane can't pull out of the dive it is in, it'll '''dig''' a hole in the ground.''
# {{italbrac|with "into"}} To research a particular subject.
#: ''She is going to '''dig''' into Egyptian basket-weaving this semester.''
# {{slang}} To appreciate, or like.
#: ''Baby, I '''dig''' you.''
# {{slang}} To understand or show interest in.
#: ''You '''dig'''?''

====Derived terms====
* [[dig in]]
* [[dig into]]
* [[dig over]]
* [[dig out]]
* [[dig up]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to move hard-packed earth out of the way}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حفر|tr=Hafara}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փորել|tr=p'orel}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|капаць|tr=kapác'|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|рыць|tr=ryc’|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|копая|tr=kopaja}},  {{t|bg|разкопавам|tr=rovja}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|cavar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|挖|tr=wā|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|挖掘|tr=wājué|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|掘|tr=jué|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kopat}},  {{t-|cs|rýt}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|grave}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|graven}}, {{t+|nl|delven}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|fosi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaivaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|creuser}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|cavar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|graben}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חפר|tr=khafár}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|खोदना|tr=khōdnā|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ás}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scavare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|掘る|tr=[[ほる]], horu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|파다|tr=pada|sc=Hang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[هه‌ڵکوڵین]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[هه‌ڵقه‌ندن]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|fodio}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|کندن|tr=kandan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kopać}}, {{t+|pl|wykopywać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cavar}}, {{t+|pt|escavar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|săpa}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t|rm|stgavar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|копать|tr=kopát’}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|выкапывать|tr=vykápyvat'}} {{impf}}, ,  {{t|ru|выкопать|tr=výkopat'}} {{pf}},  {{t|ru|копнуть|tr=kopnút'}} {{pf}}, {{t+|ru|рыть|tr=ryt’}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|вырыть|tr=výryt’}} {{pf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cladhaich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{tø|sh|копати|sc=Cyrl|xs=Serbo-Croatian}},  {{tø|sh|kopati|xs=Serbo-Croatian}},  {{tø|sh|рити|sc=Cyrl|xs=Serbo-Croatian}},  {{tø|sh|riti|xs=Serbo-Croatian}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|kopať}},  {{t|sk|ryť}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kopati}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|excavar}}, {{t-|es|ahondar}},  {{t+|es|cavar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gräva}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ขุด|tr=kùt}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|копати|tr=kopáty|xs=Ukrainian}} {{impf}},  {{t-|uk|рити|tr=rýty|xs=Ukrainian}} {{impf}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|کھودنا|tr=khōdnā|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đào|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t|vi|bới|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to research a particular subject}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ровя}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|hrabat}} se
* Danish: [[grave]] sig ned i, [[begrave]] sig i
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaivella}}, {{t-|fi|tonkia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|creuser}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cladhaich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: [[adentrarse]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''slang'') to appreciate, or like}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|žrát}}
* Danish: [[kunne]] [[lide]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|digata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|curto}}
* Spanish: [[caer bien]], [[simpatizar]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|digga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''slang'') to understand or show interest in}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|brát}}
* Danish: [[forstå]], [[være med]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tajuta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: [[picar el interés]]
* Swedish: [[vara med]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[spit]], [[grawe]]
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[gërmoj]]
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[kopati]]
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[fosi]]
* {{ttbc|Gothic}}: [[graban]]
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[ás]], [[túr]]
* {{ttbc|Ilocano}}: [[kali]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[gali]], [[gali|menggali]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[excavar]], [[fossar]], [[vi foder]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[파다]] (pada)
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: {{t|ku|kolîn}}, {{t|ku|kêlan}}, {{t|ku|kolandin}}
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[cavare]]
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[keri]]
* {{ttbc|Old English}}: [[delfan]]
* {{ttbc|Persian}}: [[kandan]]
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[kopać]]
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[escavar]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}:  [[escava]]
* {{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[hukay]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[తవ్వు]] (tavvu)
* {{ttbc|Tongan}}: [[keli]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[archeological]] [[investigation]]
# ''See'' '''[[digs]]'''

====Synonyms====
* [[excavation]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|archeological investigation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|разкопки|p}}
* Danish: [[udgravning]] {{c}}
* Dutch: [[opgraving]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaivaus|p|alt=kaivaukset}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Grabung]] {{f}}, [[Ausgrabung]] {{f}}
* Hebrew: [[חפירות]] (khafirot) {{f|p}}
* Russian: [[раскопки]] (raskópki) {{f|p}}
* Slovene: [[izkop]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|dgi}}
* [[GDI#English|GDI]]
* [[IgD#English|IgD]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Pronoun===
'''dig'''

# {{personal}} accusative and dative of [[du#Danish|du]]

====Usage notes====
* Also used as reflexive pronoun

===See also===
* [[Dem#Danish|Dem]] (formal counterpart)

[[Category:Danish pronouns]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-dig.ogg|audio}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[dej]] (''strongly colloquial'')

===Pronoun===
'''dig'''

# [[you]] (''objective case, singular'')
#: ''Jag såg '''dig''' aldrig där = I never saw '''you''' there ''
# ''reflexive case of '''du'''''; c.f. [[yourself]]
#: ''Skulle du vilja lära '''dig''' jonglera?'' = ''Would you like to learn how to juggle?''
#: ''Skar du '''dig''' på kniven?'' = ''Did you cut '''yourself''' on the knife?''

====See also====
* [[dig själv]]

====Usage notes====
Note that some verbs have special senses when used reflexively. For example, do not confuse ''du lär dig att...'' ("you learn to...") [reflexive] while ''jag lär dig att...'' ("I teach you to...") and ''du lär dig själv att...'' ("you teach yourself to..."). Here, ''lär'' means ''teach(es)'' if it is not reflexive, but ''learn(s)'' if it is reflexive. Hence the need for the separate pronoun "dig själv" to be used when object and subject agree, but the verb nevertheless should not be used in the reflexive case.

Important to note is also that in the imperative, when there's usually no explicit subject given, the "själv" is dropped.

[[Category:Swedish pronouns]]

[[cs:dig]]
[[da:dig]]
[[et:dig]]
[[el:dig]]
[[es:dig]]
[[eu:dig]]
[[fa:dig]]
[[fr:dig]]
[[gl:dig]]
[[ko:dig]]
[[hr:dig]]
[[io:dig]]
[[id:dig]]
[[it:dig]]
[[kn:dig]]
[[kk:dig]]
[[li:dig]]
[[hu:dig]]
[[ml:dig]]
[[nl:dig]]
[[pl:dig]]
[[pt:dig]]
[[ru:dig]]
[[simple:dig]]
[[fi:dig]]
[[sv:dig]]
[[ta:dig]]
[[te:dig]]
[[tr:dig]]
[[uk:dig]]
[[vi:dig]]
[[vo:dig]]
[[wo:dig]]
[[zh:dig]]