==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|dignitee}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|dignite}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|dignitas|lang=la||worthiness, merit, dignity, grandeur, authority, rank, office}}, from {{term|dignus||lang=la|worthy, appropriate}}, probably akin to {{term|decus||honor, esteem|lang=la}} and {{term|decet||it is fitting|lang=la}}. Cognate to {{term|deign|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈdɪɡnɪti/}}
* {{audio|en-us-dignity.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|dignities}}

# A quality or state worthy of esteem and respect.<!--?-->
#* '''1752''', {{w|Henry Fielding}}, ''[[w:Amelia (novel)|Amelia]]'', I. viii
#*: He uttered this ... with great majesty, or, as he called it, '''dignity'''.
#* '''1981''', ''African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights'', art. 5
#*: Every individual shall have the right to the respect of the '''dignity''' inherent in a human being.
#* '''2008''', Federal Ethics Committee on Non-Human Biotechnology (ECNH) <nowiki>[Switzerland]</nowiki>
#*: 'The '''dignity''' of living beings with regard to plants: Moral consideration of plants for their own sake', 3: ... the ECNH has been expected to make proposals from an ethical perspective to concretise the constitutional term '''dignity''' of living beings with regard to plants.<ref>[http://www.ekah.admin.ch/fileadmin/ekah-dateien/dokumentation/publikationen/e-Broschure-Wurde-Pflanze-2008.pdf Dignity of Plants]</ref>
# [[decorum|Decorum]], [[formality]], [[stateliness]].<!--?-->
#* '''1934''', Aldous Huxley, "Puerto Barrios", in ''Beyond the Mexique Bay'':
#*: Official '''DIGNITY''' tends to increase in inverse ratio to the importance of the country in which the office is held.<ref>''Columbia World of Quotations'' 1996.</ref>
# High [[office]], [[rank]], or [[station]].<!--This is in other dictionaries, and is good.-->
#* '''1781''', Edward Gibbon, ''The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'',  F. III. 231:
#*: He ... distributed the civil and military '''dignities''' among his favourites and followers.

====Synonyms====
* [[worth]]
* [[worthiness]]

====Coordinate terms====
* [[augustness]], [[humanness]], [[nobility]], [[majesty]], [[grandeur]], [[glory]], [[superiority]], [[wonderfulness]]

====Related terms====
* [[deign]]
* [[dignified]]
* [[dignify]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|quality or state}}
* {{trreq|ady}}
* {{trreq|sq}}
* {{trreq|am}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|كرامة|f|tr=karama|sc=Arab}}
* {{trreq|an}}
* {{trreq|hy}}
* {{trreq|as}}
* {{trreq|ast}}
* {{trreq|az}}
* {{trreq|be}}
* {{trreq|bn}}
* {{trreq|br}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|достойнство}}
* {{trreq|ny}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|důstojnost|f}}
* {{trreq|da}}
* {{trreq|dv}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waardigheid|c}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|digno}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|väärikus}}
* {{trreq|ee}}
* {{trreq|ext}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|arvokkuus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dignité|f}}
* {{trreq|fur}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Würde|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αξιοπρέπεια|f|sc=Grek}}
* {{trreq|gu}}
* {{trreq|ha}}
* {{trreq|haw}}
* Hebrew: [[כבוד]] (kavod) {{m}}
* {{trreq|hi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|méltóság}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|virðuleiki|m}},  {{t-|is|reisn|f}}
* {{trreq|io}}
* {{trreq|ig}}
* {{trreq|id}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|ia}}
* {{trreq|ie}}
* {{trreq|ga}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dignità|f}}
* {{trreq|kn}}
* {{trreq|lo}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|dignitas|f}}
* {{trreq|lg}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|Dignitéit}}
* {{trreq|mr}}
* {{trreq|mwl}}
* {{trreq|nov}}
* {{trreq|or}}
* {{trreq|ps}}
* {{trreq|fa}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|godność|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dignidade|f}}
* {{trreq|pa}}
* {{trreq|raj}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|demnitate|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|достоинство|n|tr=dostóinstvo}}
* {{trreq|sd}}
* Sinhalese: {{t-|si|අභිමානය|sc=Sinh}},  {{t|si||tr=Abhimanaya|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|dôstojnosť|f}}
* {{trreq|so}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dignidad|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|värdighet|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t-|tl|dignidad}}
* {{trreq|ta}}
* {{trreq|te}}
* {{trreq|th}}
* {{trreq|uk}}
* {{trreq|vi}}
* {{trreq|vo}}
* {{trreq|wa}}
* {{trreq|wo}}
* {{trreq|xh}}
* {{trreq|yi}}
* {{trreq|yo}}
* {{trreq|zu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|formality, stateliness}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|plechtigheid|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|juhlavuus}}, {{t-|fi|muodollisuus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|illem}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|high office or rank}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waardigheid|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|arvoasema}} (''office''); {{t-|fi|arvonimi}} (''rank'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|méltóság}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[affirmation]]
* [[integrity]]
* [[self-respect]]
* [[self-esteem]]
* [[self-worth]]

====References====
<references/>
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* [[tidying#English|tidying]]

[[cs:dignity]]
[[cy:dignity]]
[[de:dignity]]
[[et:dignity]]
[[el:dignity]]
[[es:dignity]]
[[eo:dignity]]
[[fr:dignity]]
[[ko:dignity]]
[[io:dignity]]
[[it:dignity]]
[[kn:dignity]]
[[lt:dignity]]
[[li:dignity]]
[[hu:dignity]]
[[mg:dignity]]
[[ml:dignity]]
[[my:dignity]]
[[nl:dignity]]
[[no:dignity]]
[[pl:dignity]]
[[simple:dignity]]
[[fi:dignity]]
[[sv:dignity]]
[[ta:dignity]]
[[te:dignity]]
[[tr:dignity]]
[[vi:dignity]]
[[zh:dignity]]