{{slim-wikipedia|dab=Discrete}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|discret|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|discretus|lang=la}}, from past participle of {{term|discernere|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-discrete.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{homophones|discreet}} ''(avoiding attention)''
* {{rhymes|iːt}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[separate|Separate]]; [[distinct]]; [[individual]]; Non-[[continuous]].
# Something that can be perceived individually and not as connected to, or part of something else.
# {{context|electrical engineering}} Having separate electronic components, such as individual resistors and inductors — the opposite of integrated circuitry.
# {{context|audio engineering}} Having separate and independent channels of audio, as opposed to [[multiplexed]] stereo or quadraphonic, or other multi-channel sound.
# {{topology}} Having each [[singleton]] [[subset]] [[open]]: said of a [[topological space]] or a [[topology]].

====Usage notes====
* Often confused with {{term|discreet|}}.

====Derived terms====
* [[discrete variable]]
* [[discreteness]]

====Antonyms====
* [[continuous]]
* {{sense|electrical engineering}} [[integrated]]
* {{sense|audio engineering}} [[multiplexed]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Separate; distinct; individual}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|отделен}}
* French: {{t+|fr|distinct|m}}, {{t+|fr|distincte|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διάκριτος}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|distinto|m}},  {{t+|it|separato|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отдельный|tr=otdél’nyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: {{t+|de|diskret}}, {{t+|de|eigenständig}}, {{t+|de|einzeln}}, {{t-|de|unstetig}}, {{t+|de|separat}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t-|it|discreto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|cdeeirst}} [[discreet#English|discreet]]

----
==BCA Lingo==
===Definition===
An extremely strong math student who goes to BCA and takes 'discrete math' (The name is in qoutes as the class does not learn discrete mathematics for 2/3 of the year)  Commonly referred to as 'a discrete'.

===Noun===
Person in Algebra 2 and Trig: "Hey are you in Discrete?"
Other person: "Nope, I'm in [Advanced Anal]."
Person in Algebra 2 and Trig: "Oh, ok.  I'm in Algebra 2"

Person in Algebra 2: "Hey! Are you in Discrete?"
Other person: "Nope.  I'm in your Algebra 2 class"
Person in Algebra 2: "Oh, sorry.  I'm not in discrete and therefore didn't remember that"

===Adjective===
Person in Algebra 2: "Hey!  Are you Discrete?"
Person in Discrete Math: "Uhhmmmm, yeah"
Person in Algebra 2: "Can you help me with my math homework?"
Person in Discrete Math:"Ehhh, we didn't learn trig yet"
Person in Algebra 2: "What? Really? You guys didn't learn SOHCAHTOA?!??!"
Person in Discrete Math: "Oh, that basic trig stuff.  Yeah, I know that stuff, but if you ever say SOHCAHTOAH again, something bad will happen"

Person in Algebra 2: "Hey! Are you Discrete?"
Other person: "Nope.  I'm in Advanced Anal"
Person in Algebra 2: "AGHHH! I need help with my math homework!"

Person in Algebra 2: "Hey are you Discrete?"
Actual person in discrete: "If I was, I would be too discrete to tell you"
Person in Algebra 2: "Wait, so are you discrete?  You've confused me.  Back to SOHCAHTOA"
*Boom* *something bad happens*

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{infl|it|adjective form|g=f}}

# Feminine plural form of [[discreto]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|cdeeirst}}
* [[credesti#Italian|credesti]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[disˈkre.te]|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ro|adjective form}}

# indefinite feminine plural nominative/accusative form of '''[[discret]]'''
# indefinite neuter plural nominative/accusative form of '''[[discret]]'''

[[ar:discrete]]
[[el:discrete]]
[[et:discrete]]
[[fa:discrete]]
[[fr:discrete]]
[[io:discrete]]
[[it:discrete]]
[[kn:discrete]]
[[lt:discrete]]
[[hu:discrete]]
[[nl:discrete]]
[[pl:discrete]]
[[pt:discrete]]
[[ru:discrete]]
[[fi:discrete]]
[[sv:discrete]]
[[ta:discrete]]
[[te:discrete]]
[[tr:discrete]]
[[vi:discrete]]
[[zh:discrete]]