{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[disc#Old English|disc]]'' < West {{Ger.}} ''* disk(s)'' < {{L.}} ''[[discus]]''.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[disch]]'' ‘table’, German ''[[Tisch]]'' ‘table’.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dɪʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-dish.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[vessel]] such as a [[plate]] for holding or serving food, often flat with a depressed region in the middle.
# The contents of such a vessel.
#: ''a '''dish''' of stew''
# A specific type of prepared food.
#: ''a vegetable '''dish'''''
#: ''this '''dish''' is filling and easily made''
# {{in plural}} Tableware (including [[cutlery]], etc, as well as [[crockery]]) that is to be or is being washed after being used to prepare, serve and eat a meal.
#: ''It's your turn to wash the '''dishes'''.''
# {{slang}} A sexually attractive woman.
# {{context|UK|slang}} A sexually attractive person of either sex.

====Synonyms====
* (''vessel''): [[plate]]
* (''contents''): [[dishful]], [[plate]], [[plateful]]
* (''type of prepared food''):
* (''sexually attractive woman''): [[babe]], [[fox]]
* (''sexually attractive person of either sex''):

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Derived terms}}
* [[chafing dish]]
* [[covered-dish]]
* [[deep-dish]]
* [[dish aerial]]
* [[dish antenna]]
* [[dish out]]
* [[dish pig]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[dish the dirt]]
* [[dish towel]]
* [[dish up]]
* [[dishcloth]]
* [[dished]]
* [[dishy]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[do the dishes]]
* [[gratin dish]]
* [[Petri dish]]
* [[satellite dish]]
* [[serving dish]]
* [[side dish]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|vessel for holding/serving food}}
* Dutch: [[bord]] {{n}}, [[taloor]] {{f}} (Only in Flanders and only in dialect)
* Esperanto: [[telero]]
* Finnish: [[tarjoiluvati]], [[vati]], [[lautanen]], [[astia]]
* French: [[assiette]] {{f}}
* German: [[Teller]] {{m}}
* Greek: [[πιάτο]] {{n}} (pçáto)
* Hebrew: [[צלחת]] (tzalakhat) {{f}}
* Italian: [[piatto]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[皿]] (さら, sara)
* Portuguese: [[prato]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[тарелка]] {{f}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[mias]] {{f}}, [[soitheach]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[plato]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|contents of such a vessel}}
* Dutch: [[bord]] {{n}}, [[gerecht]] {{n}}
* Finnish: [[vadillinen]], [[lautasellinen]], [[astiallinen]]
* Hebrew: [[מנה]] (mana) {{f}}
* Japanese: [[皿]] (さら, sara)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[prato]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[блюдо]] {{n}}
* Spanish: [[plato]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|specific type of food}}
* Czech: [[pokrm]] {{m}}
* Dutch: [[gerecht]] {{n}}
* Esperanto: [[manĝaĵo]]
* Finnish: [[ruokalaji]]
* French: [[plat#French|plat]] {{m}}
* Greek: [[πιάτο]] {{n}} (pçáto)
* Hebrew: [[מאכל]] (maakhal) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[piatto]] {{m}}
* Japanese: [[料理]] (りょうり, ryouri)
* Portuguese: [[prato]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[блюдо]] {{n}}
* Spanish: [[plato]] {{m}}
*Vietnamese: [[món]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tableware to be/being washed}}
* Czech: [[nádobí]] {{n}}
* Dutch: [[vaat]] {{m}}
* Esperanto: [[manĝilaro]]
* Finnish: [[astia|astiat]] {{p}}, [[tiski|tiskit]] {{p}}
* French: [[vaisselle]] {{f}}
* Greek: [[πιάτα]] {{n|p}} (pçáta)
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[כלים]] (kelym) {{m|p}}
* Italian: [[piatto|piatti]] {{m|p}}
* Portuguese: [[louça]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[посуда]] {{f|p}}
* Spanish: [[plato]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: sexually attractive woman}}
<!--Note: put SLANG terms in this table, where these exist-->
* Dutch: [[stoot]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[gostosa]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: sexually attractive person of either sex}}
<!--Note: put SLANG terms in this table, where these exist-->
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[piring]] (1), [[hidang]]an / [[saji]]an / [[makan]]an (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[plate]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|dish|es}}

# To [[gossip]]; to relay information about the personal situation of another.

[[ar:dish]]
[[fa:dish]]
[[fr:dish]]
[[ko:dish]]
[[io:dish]]
[[it:dish]]
[[kk:dish]]
[[lo:dish]]
[[lt:dish]]
[[hu:dish]]
[[nl:dish]]
[[ja:dish]]
[[pl:dish]]
[[simple:dish]]
[[fi:dish]]
[[ta:dish]]
[[te:dish]]
[[vi:dish]]
[[zh:dish]]