==English==

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|dismember|ment}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{countable}} The act of [[dismember]]ing.
#*'''1911''', [[w:R._Austin_Freeman|R. Austin Freeman]], ''The Vanishing Man'', ch 13,
#*:The skill is shown by the neat way in which the '''dismemberment''' has been carried out. The parts have not been rudely hacked asunder, but have been separated at the joints.
#*'''1986''', Lewis Binford ''et al.'', "Zhoukoudian: A Closer Look," ''Current Anthropology'', vol. 27, no. 5., p. 460,
#*:The metapodials appear to have been marked during '''dismemberment''' from the lower limbs.
# {{uncountable}} The [[state]] or [[condition]] of being dismembered.
#*'''1831''', [[w:Thomas_Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''Sartor Resartus'', ch. 11,
#*:Is not the fair fabric of Society itself, with all its royal mantles and pontifical stoles, whereby, from nakedness and '''dismemberment''', we are organized into Polities, into nations, and a whole co-operating Mankind, the creation, as has here been often irrefragably evinced, of the Tailor alone?
# {{countable}} [[removal|Removal]] from [[membership]]; [[detachment]] from an [[organization]], [[group]], etc.
#*'''1867''', "Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Ex Parte Magruder," ''The American Law Register (1852-1891)'', vol. 15, no. 5, New Series Volume 6, (Mar.), p. 295,
#*:The decision of the Supreme Court involved a '''dismemberment''' from the bar.
#*'''1946''', William Platt, "Studies in War-Time Organisation: (6) East African Command," ''African Affairs'', vol. 45, no. 178, p. 27,
#*:As the Italian East African Empire was on the verge of extinction in the autumn of 1941, East African Command was created by '''dismemberment''' from Middle East.

===References===
*{{R:Webster 1913}}
*{{R:Dictionary.com}}
*''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed., 1989.

[[el:dismemberment]]
[[fr:dismemberment]]
[[hu:dismemberment]]
[[fi:dismemberment]]
[[vi:dismemberment]]
[[zh:dismemberment]]