==English==
{{rfv}}
===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or pertaining to the [[dithyramb]]s, choral hymns sung in ancient [[w:Athens, Greece|Athens]] in honor of the god [[Dionysus]].
#*'''2000''', Ian C. Johnston, ''The Birth of Tragedy'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=ufCCJUFo-LMC] by Friedrich Nietzsche, page 104:
#:The '''dithyrambic''' chorus is a chorus of transformed people, for whom their social past, their civic position, is entirely forgotten.
# {{by extension}} [[passionate|Passionate]], intoxicated with enthusiasm.
#*'''1907''', William James, ''[[wikisource:Pragmatism:_A_New_Name_for_Some_Old_Ways_of_Thinking|Pragmatism]]'':
#:Signor Papini, the leader of italian pragmatism, grows fairly '''dithyrambic''' over the view that it opens, of man's divinely-creative functions.
#*'''1985''', Paul Binding, ''Harmonica's Bridegroom'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=tabbzcV5ej8C], ISBN 0552991384, page 131:
#:... thighs appear to be continuously alighting and pausing in mid-air, detached from their '''dithyrambic''' owners, like luminous birds on the wing. 
#*'''2005''', William Forbes Gray, ''Some Old Scots Judges: Anecdotes and Impressions'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=zY-1gt20e-EC], ISBN 1584774967, page 25:
#:Nevertheless, if one has time and, still more, the patience to search whole acres of '''dithyrambic''' prose, he shall have his reward.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[dithyramb]], or a poem or oration in the same style.
#*'''1775''', Anonymous, review of the West translation of Pindar's ''Olympic Odes'', in ''The Critical Review'' vol. 40 [http://books.google.com/books?id=ZB8FAAAAYAAJ], page 451:
#:As we have no remains of the '''dithyrambics''' of the ancients, we cannot exactly ascertain the measure.

====Usage notes====
* This term is primarily used in contexts relating (explicitly or implicitly) to [[w:Dionysus|Dionysus]], the Greek god of [[wine]].

[[io:dithyrambic]]
[[te:dithyrambic]]
[[vi:dithyrambic]]