==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/"daIv/}}
* {{IPA|/ˈdaɪv/}}
* {{audio|en-us-dive.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|aɪv}}

===Etymology 1===
From merged meanings of Old English weak verb ''[[dyfan]]'' and strong verb ''[[dufan]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|dives|diving|''' [[dived]]''' or '''[[dove]]'''}}

# To [[swim]] under [[water]].
# To jump into water head-first.
# To descend sharply or steeply.
# (especially with ''in'') To undertake with [[enthusiasm]].
#: ''She '''dove''' right in and started making improvements.''
# {{sport}} To deliberately fall down after a challenge, imitating being [[foul]]ed, in the hope of getting one's opponent penalised
# To [[cause]] to [[descend]], [[dunk]]

=====Usage notes=====
The past tense ''dove'' is found chiefly in North American English, where it is used alongside the regular (and earlier) ''dived'', with regional variations; in British English ''dived'' is the standard past tense, ''dove'' existing only in some dialects.  As a past participle, ''dove'' is relatively rare. (Cf. ''Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary''; ''The American Heritage Dictionary''; ''The Cambridge Guide to English Usage'')

=====Related terms=====
* [[scuba diving]]
* [[duck dive]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to swim under water}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|غاص|tr=ghaaDa}} (present tense: {{Arab|[[يغوص]]}} (yaghuuD)
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|潛水|潜水|qiánshuǐ}}
* Dutch: [[duiken]] (1), [[onderwaterzwemmen]] (1)
* Esperanto: [[plonĝi]] (1), [[subakviĝi]] (1)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukeltaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|tauchen}}
* Hebrew: [[לצלול]] (litzlol)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|immergersi}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|潜る|tr=kuguru, moguru}}
* Korean: [[무자맥질|무자맥질하다]] (mujamaegjil-hada)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mergulhar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|нырять|tr=nyrját'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|нырнуть|tr=nyrnút'}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bucear}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|jump into water}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|غطس|tr=ghaTsa}}, {{Arab|[[يقفز الى الماء]]}}
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|跳水|tr=tiàoshuǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duiken}}
* Esperanto: [[plonĝi]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukeltaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plonger}}
* German: ''ins [[Wasser]]'' [[springen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|קפיצת ראש}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|tuffarsi}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|飛び込む|tr=とびこむ, tobikomu}}
* Portuguese: [[mergulhar]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|нырять|tr=nyrját'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|нырнуть|tr=nyrnút'}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: hacer un [[clavado]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to descend}}
* Dutch: [[duiken]], een [[duikvlucht]] maken
* Esperanto: [[plonĝi]]
* German: [[abtauchen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[לצלול]] (litzlol)
* Russian: [[погружаться]] (pogružát'sja)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|undertake enthusiastically}}
* Russian: [[погружаться]] (pogružát'sja), [[уйти с головой]] (ujtí s golovój) ''idiom''
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[dyka]] (in)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Imitate a foul}}
* German: eine Schwalbe [[vortäuschen]]
* Hebrew: [[לצלול]] (litzlol)
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|нырять, симулировать}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|filma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}} <!--The definitions have changed since these translations were added. Please place them in their proper locations and *combine the two sets of verb definitions*-->
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[plunjar]]
* Indonesian:[[selam]], [[selam|menyelam]], [[selam|menyelami]], [[terjun]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[jump]] or [[plunge]] into [[water]].
# A [[swim]] under water.
# A [[decline]].
# {{slang}} A [[seedy]] [[bar]], [[nightclub]], etc.
# {{aviation}} [[fast|Fast]] [[descend]] with the [[nose]] of a [[craft]] [[pointed]] [[down]].
# {{sport}} A deliberate fall after a challenge.

=====Related terms=====
* [[divebomb]]
* [[nosedive]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a jump into water}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukellus}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|clavado}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[dyk]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a swim under water}}
* German: [[Tauchen]] {{n}}
* Hebrew: [[צלילה]] (tzlila) {{f}}
* Korean: [[무자맥질]] (mujamaegjil), [[잠수]] ([[潛水]], [[潜水]], jamsu)
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|buceo}}
* Swedish: [[dyk]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a decline}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|seedy bar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|antro|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|aviation}}
* Hebrew: [[צלילה]] (tzlila) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пике|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
See ''[[diva]]''

====Noun====
'''dive'''

# {{plural of|[[diva]]}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''dive''' {{f}} {{p}}

# Plural of [[diva]].

[[Category:Swimming]]

[[ar:dive]]
[[de:dive]]
[[et:dive]]
[[es:dive]]
[[fa:dive]]
[[fr:dive]]
[[ko:dive]]
[[io:dive]]
[[id:dive]]
[[it:dive]]
[[kk:dive]]
[[ku:dive]]
[[hu:dive]]
[[ml:dive]]
[[ja:dive]]
[[oc:dive]]
[[pl:dive]]
[[pt:dive]]
[[ru:dive]]
[[simple:dive]]
[[fi:dive]]
[[ta:dive]]
[[te:dive]]
[[uk:dive]]
[[vi:dive]]
[[zh:dive]]