{{also|dna}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

==={{initialism}}===
'''DNA'''

# {{genetics}} [[deoxyribonucleic acid]], the [[genetic]] material of nearly all forms of life.
# [[w:Defense Nuclear Agency|Defense Nuclear Agency]].
# Did Not Answer.
# Did Not Arrive (used when someone fails to keep an appointment).
# Did Not Attend.
# Do Not Assume.
# Drugs 'n' alcohol.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A substance  in living beings which determines their form, and can be used to uniquely identify a person.
# {{biochemistry}} A [[biopolymer]] of [[deoxyribonucleic acid]]s (a type of [[nucleic acid]]) that has four different chemical groups, called [[bases]]: [[adenine]], [[guanine]], [[cytosine]], and [[thymine]].

====Derived terms====
* [[junk DNA]]
* [[mitochondrial DNA]]
* [[chloroplast DNA]]
* [[DNA test]]
* [[mtDNA]]
* [[rDNA]]
* [[ssDNA]]
* [[dsDNA]]

====Related terms====
* [[RNA]]
* [[PNA]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|deoxyribonucleic acid}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t|af|DNS}} (''deoksiribonukleïnesuur'')
* Arabic: {{t|ar|دنا|f|tr=dinaa|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|الحمض النووي الريبي منقوص الأكسجين|m|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ԴՆԹ|tr=DNT’}}
* Bosnian: [[DNK#Bosnian|DNK]] (''dezoksiribonukleinska kiselina'') {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|ADN}} (''àcid desoxiribonucleic'')
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|核酸|tr=hésuān|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|脫氧核糖核酸|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|脱氧核糖核酸|tr=tuōyǎnghé táng hésuān|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|dna}}
* Dutch: DNA, {{t|nl|DNZ}} (''Desoxyribonucleïnezuur''; rarely used)
* Finnish: {{t|fi|DNA}} (''deoksiribonukleiinihappo'')
* French: {{t|fr|ADN}} (''acide désoxyribonucléique'') {{m}}
* German: {{t|de|DNS}} (''Desoxyribonukleinsäure'') {{f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|डीएनए|tr=ḍī'ēn'ē|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|DNS}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|DNA|n}}, {{qualifier|rare|deoxýríbósakjarnsýra}} {{t|is|DKS|n}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[ADN]] (acido desoxyribonucleic), DNA
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ADN}} (''acido desossiribonucleico'') {{m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|デオキシリボ核酸|tr=deokishiribo kakusan|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|ＤＮＡ|tr=dī-enu-ē|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|ディー・エヌ・エー|tr=dī-enu-ē|sc=Jpan}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|DNS}} (''dezoksiribonukleīnskābe'')
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|DNR}} (''deoksiribonukleininė rūgštis'')
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|ДНК|f|tr=дезоксирибонуклеинска киселина}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|DNA}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|ADN}} (''ácido desoxirribonucléico''), DNA
* Romanian: {{t|ro|ADN}} (''acid dezoxiribonucleic'') {{m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|ДНК|f|tr=de-en-ká}} ([[дезоксирибонуклеиновая кислота]]) {{f}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sr|ДНК}} (''дезоксирибонуклеинска киселина'') {{f}}
*: Roman: [[DNK#Serbian|DNK]] (''dezoksiribonukleinska kiselina'') {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|DNK}} (''deoxyribonukleová kyselina'') {{f}}, DNA {{n}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|DNK}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|ADN}}, {{qualifier|written out}} [[ácido desoxirribonucleico]] {{m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|DNA}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|ڈی این اے|tr=ḍī 'ēn 'ē|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ADN#English|ADN]]
* [[and#English|and]], [[AND#English|AND]]
* [[dan#English|dan]], [[Dan#English|Dan]], [[Dan.#English|Dan.]], [[DAN#English|DAN]]
* [[nad#English|nad]], [[NAD#English|NAD]]
* [[NDA#English|NDA]]

----

==Dutch==

===Initialism===
{{infl|nl|initialism}}

# ''[[desoxyribonucleïnezuur]]'' (deoxyribonucleic acid)

===Anagrams===
* [[dan#Dutch|dan]]

----

==French==

==={{abbreviation|French}}===
'''DNA'''

# ''Dernière Nouvelles d'Alsace'' ("Latest News from Alsace"), a French periodical.

===Anagrams===
* [[ADN#French|ADN]]

----

==Turkish==

===Abbreviation===
{{infl|tr|abbreviation}}

# ''"'''D'''eoksiribo'''n'''ükleik '''a'''sit"'', [[deoxyribonucleic acid]], the [[genetic]] material of nearly all forms of life.

[[ar:DNA]]
[[de:DNA]]
[[et:DNA]]
[[es:DNA]]
[[fr:DNA]]
[[ko:DNA]]
[[it:DNA]]
[[he:DNA]]
[[hu:DNA]]
[[nl:DNA]]
[[ja:DNA]]
[[no:DNA]]
[[pl:DNA]]
[[pt:DNA]]
[[fi:DNA]]
[[sv:DNA]]
[[ta:DNA]]
[[tr:DNA]]
[[zh:DNA]]