==English==

===Etymology===
From , , , , , , (), from , from . See , and compare , , . See also .

===Pronunciation===
* 
* 
* 
* 

===Noun===
<br />

# A geographic area owned or controlled by a single person or organization.
#:''The king ruled his '''domain''' harshly.''
# A field or sphere of activity, influence or expertise.
#:''Dealing with complaints isn't really my '''domain''': get in touch with customer services.''
#: ''His '''domain''' is English history.''
# A group of related items, topics, or subjects.
#* 
# The set of all possible mathematical entities (points) where a given function is defined.
# The set of input (argument) values for which a function is defined.
# A  with no zero divisors; that is, in which no  of nonzero elements is zero.
#: 
# An open and connected set in some topology. For example, the interval (0,1) as a subset of the real numbers.
# Any DNS domain name, particularly one which has been delegated and has become representative of the delegated domain name and its subdomains.
#*'''2000''', ''BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual (9.3.2)'', Internet Software Consortium 
#*: Every name in the DNS tree is a '''domain''', even if it is terminal, that is, has no subdomains.
# A collection of DNS or DNS-like domain names consisting of a delegated domain name and all its subdomains.
# A collection of information having to do with a domain, the computers named in the domain, and the network on which the computers named in the domain reside.
# The collection of computers identified by a domain's domain names.
# A small region of a magnetic material with a consistent magnetization direction.
# Such a region used as a data storage element in a bubble memory.
# {{lb|en|data processing}} A form of technical metadata that represent the type of a data item, its characteristics, name, and usage.
#*: A characteristic of a field. A data domain specifies a data type and applies the minimum and maximum values allowed and other constraints.
# The highest rank in the classification of organisms, above kingdom; in the three-domain system, one of the taxa ''Bacteria'', ''Archaea'', or ''Eukaryota''.
# A folded section of a protein molecule that has a discrete function; the equivalent section of a chromosome

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|collection of information}} Used in a context in which domain name services, or kindred services, are managed in a fashion that is integrated with the management of other computer and network related information.
* {{sense|collection of computers}} Used in the same context as the ''collection of information'' '''domain''' sense.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|geographic area}} 
* {{sense|where a function is defined}} 
* {{sense|collection of DNS names}} , 

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|domain of definition of a function}} 
* {{sense|domain of definition of a function}} 

====Hyponyms====
====Derived terms====
====Related terms====
====Translations====
====Further reading====
* 
* 
* 

===Anagrams===
* 

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m|domains}}

# {{lb|es|internet}} {{l|en|domain}}