{{was wotd|2009|December|17}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[never look a gift horse in the mouth]]

===Etymology===
This phrase, it seems, can be traced back to St. Jerome, who referred to it as a common saying in his introductory remarks to the ''Epistle to the Ephesians'' in his translation of the New Testament: "Equi donati dentes non inspiciuntur." A rather mangled literal translation would go something like this: "A given horse's teeth are not inspected." This is evident from parsing the original Latin sentence: Equi (masculine genitive singular) donati (perfect passive (supine) masculine genitive singular) dentes (masculine accusative plural) non (negative adverb) inspiciuntur (3rd person plural present passive indicative). It is likely that English versions are translations of this original Latin; furthermore, the Latin form seems to explain the use of "given" (geuen) in the 1546 version.

From early modern English [[given]] [[horse]]: ''"No man ought to looke a geuen hors in the mouth."'' —[[w:John Heywood|John Heywood]], 1546.

Horses' gums recede as they age making their teeth appear longer (hence the term, "[[long in the tooth]]"). Inspecting the teeth of a horse given as a gift was considered ungrateful.  It would mean that recipient is trying to see if the horse is old (undesirable) or young (more desirable).

The substitution of "gift" for "given" occurred in 1663 in [[w:Samuel Butler (poet)|Butler’s]] ''[[w:Hudibras|Hudibras]]'', because the iambic tetrameter required a shortening:
: ''He ne’er consider'd it, as loth''
: ''To look a Gift-horse in the mouth.''


'''THE PHRASE AS INTERPRETED BY MANY IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:'''  

A "gift horse" is the same thing as a "rocking horse"...a children's toy.  "Rocking horses" used to be called "gift horses" back in the day.  One should reference older dictionaries, encyclopedias, books about toys, toy catalogs, etc. to locate the actual definition of a "gift horse".  The toy was called a "gift horse" because it was a common gift to give when a child was born, experienced a birthday, or experienced a gift-giving holiday (like Christmas, for instance).  

The original gift/rocking horses were typically assembled, carved pieces of wood.  The wood was sometimes ornately decorated with paint and/or a coating of some kind.  The material of choice was usually wood, however other materials were also used.  Most of the original versions of the toy were hand made.   

If a child was rocking the toy and someone was sitting on the floor in front of it or bending/kneeling in front of it, the person sitting/bending/kneeling could get injured in the face or other areas of the body.  The phrases, "Don't look a gift horse in the mouth" and "Never look a gift horse in the mouth" were born out of the safety problems with this particular toy if you were at the front of it while a child was rocking on it.  

Outside of the injuries that could be sustained at the front of the gift/rocking horse, injuries could also occur at the rear of the toy where the tail was.  The toy could also flip over either forward or backward or tip over sideways if the act of rocking on it was uneven and/or too severe.  Four curved rail stops would later be carved into the ends of the two lower arched rails to prevent the flipping problems, but the rail stops were somewhat rounded and could still cause forward or backward flipping as well as the sideways tipping of the toy.  When in use, the two arched rails at the bottom of the toy could crush human and animal body parts, objects, etc.  Serious injuries to people, animals, etc. resulted with this toy.  The injuries included skull fractures, concussions, severe eye injuries (including vision loss), broken noses, broken teeth, broken bones, bruises, cuts, etc.  Property damage also occurred with this toy.  The property damages usually involved scraped/cracked walls, scuffed/scratched floors, torn furniture, broken decorative objects, etc.  

Due to the injuries and/or property damages, later versions of gift/rocking horses were mounted on a wider base apparatus with four or more springs to attach the horse to the apparatus.  These toys were usually manufactured and not hand made.  On the newer versions of the gift/rocking horses, the horse could only go so far forward and so far backward as mandated by U.S. federal laws.  The wider base apparatus with springs was not accident-free, but most considered it to be safer than its predecessors.  This toy had more of an up and down bouncing effect.  Rocking either forward or backward was difficult if the toy was not weighted properly or if the springs were worn.  The danger with the wider base, spring version of the toy was that the springs would expand and contract during use.  Body parts and other objects such as fingers, toes, skin, hair, animal tails, clothing, other toys, etc. could get crushed in the springs.  A person, animal, object, etc. could crawl or be placed underneath this version of the toy and get injured or broken if a child was sitting on the toy and playing with it.  All gift/rocking horses have floor shifting issues when in use, making them especially dangerous in areas near staircases, fireplaces, etc.  The toy, in general, was and is considered to be dangerous.  

Manufacturers of these toys are required by U.S. federal law to issue safety warnings about the dangers of this toy on the outside of the package (if there is a package).  Whether or not there is a package, the manufacturer is required to provide detailed assembly/usage instructions and safety warnings as specified by the U.S. Federal Government.  The assembly/usage instructions and safety warnings come in the form of document(s) and pamphlet(s). These assembly/usage instructions and safety warnings are to be saved by the purchaser just in case the package is thrown away or misplaced after purchase.  If the purchaser of the toy re-sells it or gives it to someone else afterwards, the complete assembly/usage instructions and safety warnings are to be given to the new owner(s).  Regarding the purchase/sale/gifting, etc. of this product in the U.S., the purchaser(s), seller(s), giftor(s), grantee(s), etc. in all cases should be at least the legal age of majority in the U.S. state where the toy is to be purchased AND the legal age of majority in the U.S. state where the toy is to be used (may not be the same U.S. state).  The legal age of majority varies from state to state.  The inherent dangers that are possible with this toy make the legal age of majority a necessary consideration, although it may or may not be the law.  One should always evidence that the purchaser(s)/seller(s)/giftor(s)/grantee(s), etc. is/are able to read/speak the same language as found on the package(s)/document(s)/pamphlet(s), etc.  Always check U.S. federal, state, local, and other applicable laws regarding the purchase/sale/gifting, etc. of this and all other toys.  Some toys are more dangerous than many people, animals, etc. are aware of.  

In general, when someone says to a person "Don't look a gift horse in the mouth" or "Never look a gift horse in the mouth", they are warning the other person that they are certain to get hurt by doing something a particular way.  The saying is not always a reference to physical injury or death, but it ''could'' be.  Some people who use the phrase are essentially saying to you, "If you do it that way, you will be killed."  The phrase can also be used to point out other ways of getting hurt.  For instance, let's say a person wants to borrow money from you and that person is known by others to not pay people back.  Another person who is aware of the conversation between you and this person and knows the person's ways will use the phrase and is essentially saying to you, "If you give that person the money, you will never get paid back."  In general, the phrase is a way of saying, "If you do it that way, you will not be happy in the end".  A person's meaning of the phrase when said to you depends upon the person's personality profile, the person's tone of voice, and the topic of conversation when the phrase is being said to you.--[[Special:Contributions/71.52.48.194|71.52.48.194]] 03:27, 21 October 2013 (UTC)

===Proverb===
{{head|en|proverb|head=[[don't]] [[look]] a [[gift]] [[horse]] [[in]] [[the]] [[mouth]]}}

# Do not [[unappreciatively]] [[question]] a [[gift]] or [[handout]] too closely.

====Related terms====
* [[long in the tooth]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a phrase referring to unappreciatively questioning of a gift or handout too closely}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|a cavall regalat, no li miris el dentat}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|[[不要]][[對]][[禮物]][[吹毛求疵]]|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|[[不要]][[对]][[礼物]][[吹毛求疵]]|tr=bùyào duì lǐwù chuīmáoqiúcī|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|[[不要]][[對]][[禮物]][[挑三揀四]]|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|[[不要]][[对]][[礼物]][[挑三拣四]]|tr=bùyào duì lǐwù tiāosānjiǎnsì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|darovanému koni na zuby nekoukej}}, {{t|cs|darovanému koni na zuby nehleď}}
* Danish: {{t|da|sku ikke en given hest i munden}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|een gegeven paard niet in de bek kijken}}, {{t|nl|Men moet een gegeven paard niet in de bek kijken}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kingitud hobuse suhu ei vaadata}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lahjahevosen suuhun ei saa katsoa}}
* French: {{t|fr|à cheval donné, on ne regarde pas la bouche}}, {{t+|fr|à cheval donné on ne regarde pas les dents}}, {{t+|fr|à cheval donné on ne regarde pas la bride}}
* German: {{t+|de|einem geschenkten Gaul schaut man nicht ins Maul}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ajándék lónak ne nézd a fogát}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{qualifier|look a gift horse in the mouth}} {{t|is|kunna ekki gott að meta}}, {{qualifier|don't look a gift horse in the mouth}} {{t|is|vanþakklátur|m|alt=ekki vera vanþakklátur}}
* Italian: {{t|it|a caval donato non si guarda in bocca}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|darowanemu koniowi nie zagląda się w zęby}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|a cavalo dado não se olha os dentes}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|calul de dar nu se caută la dinți}}, {{t|ro|calul de dar nu se caută în gură}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дарёному коню в зубы не смотрят|tr=darjónomu konjú v zúby ne smótrjat}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|poklonjenom konju se ne gleda u zube}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|darovanému koňovi sa na zuby nepozeraj}}!
* Spanish: {{t|es|a caballo regalado no se le miran los dientes}}, {{t|es|a caballo regalado no le mires el diente}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|skåda inte en given häst i munnen}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|üzümünü ye bağını sorma}}, {{t|tr|hediye atın dişine bakılmaz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[beggars can't be choosers]]
* [[Trojan horse]]

===References===
* Gregory Y. Titelman, ''Random House Dictionary of Popular Proverbs and Sayings'', 1996, ISBN 0-679-44554-4, p. 69.

[[ko:don't look a gift horse in the mouth]]
[[hu:don't look a gift horse in the mouth]]