{{also|Donner}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|af|en}} {{m|af|donder||thrash}}, from {{etyl|nl|en}} {{m|nl|donder||thunder}}.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|South Africa|slang}} To [[beat up]], [[clobber]], [[thrash]]
#* '''2005''', [[w:Al Lovejoy|Al Lovejoy]], ''Acid Alex'', Zebra Press (2005), ISBN 1770070931, [http://books.google.com/books?id=5zqks5PBUowC&pg=PT191 page 167]:
#*: They went into the pub and started a fight. One that was just bad enough for someone to call the boere. When the gattas arrived they got '''donnered''' for their trouble.

===References===
* ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=5GpLcC4a5fAC&pg=PA428 Cassell's Dictionary of Slang]''
* ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=tvRp1whVFUsC&pg=PA328 A Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English]''

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fr|frm|donner}}, from {{inh|fr|fro|doner}}, from {{inh|fr|la|dōnāre}}, present active infinitive of {{m|la|dōnō}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-donner.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{IPA|/dɔ.ne/|lang=fr}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb}}

# to [[give]], to transfer the possession/holding of something to someone else.
# to [[donate]]
# {{lb|fr|intransitive}} To [[come across]]
#* {{quote-book|year=1837|author=Louis Viardot|title=L’Ingénieux Hidalgo Don Quichotte de la Manche|url=[s:fr: L’Ingénieux Hidalgo Don Quichotte de la Manche{{!}}fr.Wikisource]|original=El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quijote de la Mancha|by=Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra|section=Chapter I|passage=Finalement, ayant perdu l’esprit sans ressource, il vint à '''donner''' dans la plus étrange pensée dont jamais fou se fût avisé dans le monde.}}
#*:: Finally, having lost his mind completely, he happened to '''come across''' the strangest thought in the world of which a crazy person ever conceived.

====Related terms====
* {{l|fr|donner sur}}
* {{l|fr|don}}
* {{l|fr|donner le jour}}

====Conjugation====
{{fr-conj-auto}}

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==German==

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|donnern|1|s|g}}
# {{de-verb form of|donnern|i|s}}

----

==Middle French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|frm|fro|doner}}, from {{inh|frm|la|dono|dōnō, dōnāre}}.

===Verb===
{{head|frm|verb}}

# to [[give]]

====Conjugation====
{{frm-conj-er|donn}}

====Descendants====
* French: {{l|fr|donner}}

----

==Norman==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|nrf|dounnaïr}} {{qualifier|Guernsey}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nrf|fro|doner}}, from {{inh|nrf|la|dono|dōnō, dōnāre|give a present; bestow, grant}}, from {{m|la|dōnum||gift, present}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Jer-donner.ogg|Audio (Jersey)|lang=nrf}}

===Verb===
{{nrf-verb}}

# {{lb|nrf|Jersey}} to [[give]]
# {{lb|nrf|Jersey|card games}} to [[deal]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nrf|bailli}}

====Antonyms====
* {{l|nrf|prendre||to take}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|{{l|nrf|donner du fouet||to lash}}
|{{l|nrf|donner la tchêne||to cane}}
|{{l|nrf|donner un clyîn||to give a wink}}
|{{l|nrf|donner un pâssage||to give a lift}}}}

----

==Scots==

===Verb===
{{sco-verb}}

# to [[stun]], [[shock]], [[stupefy]]
#* '''1879''', Mrs. Finlay Cameron, ''The Auld Hoose: Glimpses of Scottish Life'', The Edinburgh Publishing Company (1879), [http://books.google.com/books?id=yxkCAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA69 page 69]:
#*: "Doited or no doited, it's a fact thae hae queer daein's aboot thae toons. I haena seen mony o' them; but as for Glasgow, it quite '''donnered''' me; and Edinburgh wasna muckle better. {{…}}

===References===
* ''[http://www.scots-online.org/dictionary/read.asp?letter=D&CurPage=32 The Online Scots Dictionary]''

[[ar:donner]]
[[ast:donner]]
[[cs:donner]]
[[co:donner]]
[[cy:donner]]
[[da:donner]]
[[de:donner]]
[[et:donner]]
[[el:donner]]
[[es:donner]]
[[eu:donner]]
[[fr:donner]]
[[gl:donner]]
[[ko:donner]]
[[hr:donner]]
[[io:donner]]
[[id:donner]]
[[ie:donner]]
[[it:donner]]
[[kn:donner]]
[[ku:donner]]
[[lv:donner]]
[[lt:donner]]
[[li:donner]]
[[hu:donner]]
[[mk:donner]]
[[mg:donner]]
[[mn:donner]]
[[fj:donner]]
[[nl:donner]]
[[ja:donner]]
[[no:donner]]
[[oc:donner]]
[[pl:donner]]
[[ro:donner]]
[[ru:donner]]
[[fi:donner]]
[[sv:donner]]
[[chr:donner]]
[[tr:donner]]
[[ug:donner]]
[[vi:donner]]
[[wa:donner]]
[[zh:donner]]