==English==

===Etymology===
[[double]] + [[dip]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{informal}} An [[ice cream]] [[cone]] with [[two]] scoops of ice cream.
#:''We each got '''double-dips''' with chocolate on top and strawberry on the bottom.''
# ''(roller coaster)'' A hill that levels off for a bit about halfway down.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|double-dip|p|ed}}

# {{informal}} To [[dip]] a piece of [[food]] (e.g. a [[chip]]) into a communal [[sauce]] container after already having taken a [[bite]] of the food.
#:''I don't mind '''double-dipping''' when eating with my family, but I'd be embarrassed to do it when out with friends.''
# {{informal}} To be illegitimately [[compensate]]d a second time for the same activity.
#:''He got caught '''double-dipping''' by billing the government directly as well as the primary contractor.''
#* '''2006''', Wulf Kansteiner, ''In pursuit of German memory: history, television, and politics after Auschwitz''
#*: They worried about the possibility that some forced laborers, in particular Jewish survivors, might be '''double-dipping''', that is, that they might be collecting compensation for their work as forced laborers while continuing to receive payments as Holocaust survivors and thus absorbing funds that should be directed toward other groups of victims...
# {{informal}} To draw a government pension or benefit for one job while also working in the government at another job or to draw two pensions at the same time as a result of reaching the retirement criteria twice for the same entity.
# {{context|entertainment industry}} To re-release a movie or TV series, sometimes as a compilation or with additional features.
# {{US|finance}} To use a single debt instrument to obtain interest tax expense (and therefore a lower tax base) in two or more tax jurisdictions.  As long as the practice follows the tax law of each jurisdiction, the practice is legal and can be likened to the use of a tax loophole.
# {{softball}}  To defeat a team twice in the finals.
#: ''SPC Ladies double dipped the Sudbury Storm in the NSA Canadian World Series.''
# {{rfv-sense}} {{context|pornography}} To have sex anally and then vaginally immediately afterwards.

===Adjective===
'''double-dipped'''
# {{slang|drugs}} Double the standard potency