{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Down}}
==English==

{{rank|much|after|first|97|down|good|never|shall}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/daʊn/}}, {{SAMPA|/daUn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-down.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aʊn}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|doun}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|dun|dūn}}, from British Celtic ''dunon'' 'hill; hillfort' (compare Welsh ''din'' 'hill', Irish ''dún'' 'hill, fort'), from {{proto|Indo-European}} *''dheue'' or ''dhwene''. More at {{term|town}}; akin to {{term|dune}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{context|obsolete|_|except in place-names}} [[hill|Hill]], rolling grassland (such as "Churchill Downs", "Upson Downs" from ''Auntie Mame'', by Patrick Dennis).
# {{context|usually plural}} Field, especially for racing.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|hill, rolling grassland}}
* Danish: {{t|da|højdedrag}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|heuvel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hügel|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λοφάκι|n|tr=lofáci}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|field, especially for racing}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|bane}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veld|n}}, {{t+|nl|baan|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|میدان|tr=meydân|xs=Persian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: {{t|ca|plomissol|m}}, {{t|ca|plomissa|f}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: {{t+|fr|duvet|m}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: {{t-|it|piumino|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[綿毛]] ([[わたげ]], watage), [[ダウン]] (daun)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t|es|plumón|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|dune|dūne|lang=ang}}, aphetic form of {{term|adune|adūne}}, from {{term||of dūne|off the hill}}.

====Adverb====
{{infl|en|adverb|head=down '''''([[incomparable]] and [[comparable]]), ([[comparative]]''''' farther down, '''''[[superlative]]''''' farthest down''''')''}}

# {{comparable}} From a higher position to a [[lower]] one; [[downwards]].
#: ''The cat jumped '''down''' from the table.''
# {{comparable}} At a lower [[place]] or [[position]].
#: ''His place is '''farther down''' the road.''
# [[south|South]] (as south is at the bottom of typical maps).
#: ''I went '''down''' to Miami for a conference.''
# {{Ireland}} Away from the city (even if the location is to the North).
#: ''He went '''down''' to Cavan.''
#: '''''Down''' on the farm.''
#: '''''Down''' country.''
# Into a state of non-[[operation]].
#: ''The computer has been shut '''down'''.
#: ''They closed the shop '''down'''.''
# {{rail transport}} The direction leading away from the principal terminus, away from milepost zero.
# {{context|sentence substitute}} [[get down|Get down]].
#: '''''Down''', boy!'' {{qualifier|said to a dog}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|from a high to a low position, downwards}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|надолу}}
* Chinese: [[下]] (xià)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dolů}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|ned}}, {{t|da|nedad}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beneden|alt=naar beneden}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|malsupren|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|suben|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alas}}, {{t-|fi|alaspäin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|à bas}}, {{t+|fr|en bas}}
* German: {{t-|de|runter}}, {{t+|de|herunter}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κάτω}} (cáto)
* Hebrew: [[מטה]] (mat'a)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|le}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|síos|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbasso}},  {{t+|it|giù}}
* Japanese: [[下]]に (した に, shitá ni)
* [[Lao]]: {{t-|lo|ລົງ|tr=long|sc=Laoo|xs=Lao}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|deorsum}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|baxx|xs=Maltese}}
* Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|下|sc=Hani}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ned}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|na dół}}, {{t-|pl|w dół}}
* Portuguese: [[abaixo]], [[para baixo]].
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|jos}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ниже|tr=níže}}, {{t+|ru|вниз|tr=vniz}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sìos|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|a-bhuas|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|a-bhàn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|a-nuas|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|spodaj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abajo}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chini|xs=Swahili}},  {{t+|sw|chini|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ned}}, {{t+|sv|ner}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|del|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in a lower position}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|долу}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dole}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|nede}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|thíos|xs=Irish}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|nede}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|внизу|tr=vnizú}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|shìos|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|a-bhuas|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|a-bhàn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chini|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|south}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|юг}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dolů}}, {{t+|cs|dole}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|ned}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beneden|alt=naar beneden}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|suden|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sud}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|suas|xs=Irish}}
* Japanese: [[南]]に (みなみ に, minami ni)
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|isfel|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|deas|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|južno}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|away from the city}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ven}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|malurben|xs=Esperanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|a-mach|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|into a state of non-operation}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|nede}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uit}}, {{t+|nl|af}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sìos|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chini|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|away from principal terminus in railroads}}
* Japanese: [[下り]]の (くだり の, kudari no)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sentence substitute for "get down"}}
* French: [[couché]] {{italbrac|said to a dog}}, [[descends]] {{italbrac|said to a person; informal}}, [[descendez]] {{italbrac|said to a person; formal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|giù}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chini|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[poshtë]]
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[avall]]
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[dolje]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[infre]], [[adinfre]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bawah]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: (in) [[giù]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[jêr]], [[binî]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[jos]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[abajo]]
* {{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[खाली]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Preposition====
{{en-prep}}

# From the [[higher]] [[end]] to the [[lower]] of.
#: ''The ball rolled '''down''' the hill.''
# From one end to another of.
#: ''The bus went '''down''' the street.''
#: ''They walked '''down''' the beach holding hands.''

=====Derived terms=====
* {{sense|from the higher end to the lower}} [[sell someone down the river]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|from one end to another}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|по}}
* Danish: {{t|da|ned ad}}, {{t|da|hen ad}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|af}}, {{t+|nl|beneden|alt=naar beneden}}
* Esperanto: [[sub]] [[-n]] (i.e. with an object in the accusative case)
* Russian: [[вниз]] (vniz), [[вдоль]] (vdol'), [[по]] (po)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[a-bhàn]], [[sìos]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dol}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|por}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|ลง|tr=long}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# [[depressed|Depressed]], feeling [[low]].
#: ''So, things got you '''down'''? / Is Rodney Dangerfield giving you no respect? / Well, bunky, cheer up!''
# On a lower level than before.
#: ''The stock market is '''down'''.''
#: ''Prices are '''down'''.''
# {{colloquial}} With "[[on]]", negative about, hostile to
#: ''Ever since Nixon, I've been '''down''' on Republicans.''
# {{not comparable|US|slang}} With "[[with]]", relaxed about, accepting of
#: ''I'm '''down''' with him hanging with us.''
# {{not comparable}} [[inoperable|Inoperable]]; [[out of order]]; out of service.
#: ''The system is '''down'''.
# Of a task; [[finished]] in phrases like:
#: ''Two '''down''' and three to go.'' (Two tasks completed and three more still to be done.)
# Committed to [[memory]]; [[memorised]], in phrases like:
#: ''It's two weeks until opening night and our lines are still not '''down''' yet.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|depressed}}
* Danish: {{t|da|langt nede}}, {{t|da|nede}}, {{t|da|deprimeret}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|down}}, {{t-|nl|depri}}, {{t+|nl|depressief}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|allapäin}}, {{t-|fi|alakuloinen}}
* German: {{t+|de|down}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|sedih|xs=Malay}}, {{t|ms|murung|xs=Malay}}
* Russian: [[печальный]] (pečál’nyj)
* [[Scots]]: [[dowie]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|on a lower level than before}}
* Danish: {{t|da|lav}}, {{t|da|nedadgående}}, {{t|da|aftagende}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|laag}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|malsupra|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|suba|xs=Esperanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|unten}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|снижающийся|tr=snižájuščijsja}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ต่ำ|tr=dtàm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[deprimit]], [[deprimido]]
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[korpremata]] or [[korpremita]] or perhaps [[korprema]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[dépressif]], [[dépri]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[giù]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[depresîf]], [[moralşkestî]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To drink or [[swallow]], especially without stopping before the [[vessel]] containing the liquid is empty.
#: ''He '''downed''' an ale and ordered another.''
# {{transitive}} To cause to come down.
#: ''The storm '''downed''' several old trees along the highway.''
# {{transitive|pocket billiards}} To put a ball in a pocket; to [[pot]] a ball.
#: ''He '''downed''' two balls on the break.''
# {{transitive|American football}} To bring a play to an end by touching the ball to the ground or while it is on the ground.
#: ''He '''downed''' it at the seven-yard line.''
# {{transitive}} To [[write off]]; to [[make fun of]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|drink}} See also [[Wikisaurus:drink]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to drink or swallow}}
* Danish: {{t|da|sluge}}, {{t|da|hælde ned}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|atten}}, {{t+|nl|drinken}}, {{t+|nl|zuipen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|trinkegi|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|faire cul sec}}
* German: {{t-|de|exen}}, {{t-|de|runterkippen}}, {{t-|de|drinken}}, {{t+|de|schlucken}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|lehajt}}, {{t|hu|felhajt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{transitive}} [[daqurtandin]], [[daûrandin]], [[dabelandin]], {{intransitive}} [[daqurtîn]], [[daûrîn]], [[dabelîn]]
* Malay: {{t|ms|teguk|xs=Malay}}
* Russian: [[выпить залпом]] (výpit’ zálpom), [[залпом]] (zálpom)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pogoltniti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to pot a ball}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|potten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|versenken}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to drop}}
* Danish: {{t|da|tabe}}, {{t|da|lade falde}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|laten}} {{t+|nl|vallen}}, {{t|nl|droppen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laisser tomber}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|fallen lassen}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|daxistin}}, {{t+|ku|dahanîn}}, {{t+|ku|daketin}}, {{t+|ku|dahatin}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|American football}} A single play, from the time the ball is snapped (the start) to the time the whistle is blown (the end) when the ball ''is down'', or ''is downed''.
#* ''I bet after the third '''down''', the kicker will replace the quarterback on the field.''
# a [[negative]] thing.
#:''I love almost everything about my job. The only '''down''' is that I can't take Saturdays off.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|American football – a single play}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|down|m}}, {{t-|nl|ronde|f}}, {{t+|nl|kwart|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adjective, adverb, preposition, noun, or verb ''down''}}
* [[down and out]]
* [[down at heel]]
* [[down in the dumps]]
* [[down in the mouth]]
* [[down memory lane]]
* [[down on one's luck]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[down payment]]
* [[down pat]]
* [[downed]] ''(US and Canadian football)''
* [[downer]]
* [[down to the short strokes]]
* [[first down]] ''(US and Canadian football)''
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[fourth down]] ''(US football)''
* [[second down]] ''(US and Canadian football)''
* [[third down]] ''(US and Canadian football)''
* [[top-down]]
* [[upside down]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|non}} {{term|dún}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Soft, [[fluffy]] immature [[feather]]s which grow on young birds. Used as insulating material in [[duvet]]s, [[sleeping bag]]s and [[jacket]]s.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|soft, immature feathers}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|пух|m}}, {{t|bg|мъх|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|chmýří|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|dun}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dons|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|lanugo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|untuva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|duvet|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Daune|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πούπουλα|f|p}} (poópoola)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Greenlandic]]: {{t|kl|qivioq|xs=Greenlandic}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|pihe}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|puch|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пух|m|tr=pux}}
* [[Scots]]: [[doon#Scots|doon]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[clòimh]] {{f}}, [[clòimhteach]] {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|puh}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dun|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Directions]]
[[Category:English adverbs]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From English ''[[#Adjective|down]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/daʊn/|lang=nl}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|pred}}

# [[#Adjective|Down]], [[depressed]].

====Synonyms====
* [[depressief]], [[depri]]

===Anagrams===
* [[wond#Dutch|wond]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From English ''[[#Adjective|down]]''.

===Adjective===
{{de-adj|-}}

# [[#Adjective|Down]], [[depressed]].

[[ar:down]]
[[zh-min-nan:down]]
[[cy:down]]
[[de:down]]
[[et:down]]
[[el:down]]
[[es:down]]
[[fa:down]]
[[fr:down]]
[[ko:down]]
[[io:down]]
[[it:down]]
[[kn:down]]
[[kk:down]]
[[sw:down]]
[[ku:down]]
[[li:down]]
[[hu:down]]
[[ml:down]]
[[my:down]]
[[nl:down]]
[[ja:down]]
[[no:down]]
[[pl:down]]
[[ru:down]]
[[simple:down]]
[[fi:down]]
[[sv:down]]
[[ta:down]]
[[te:down]]
[[th:down]]
[[tr:down]]
[[uk:down]]
[[vi:down]]
[[zh:down]]