{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non}} {{term|draga||lang=non}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/dɹæɡ/}}, {{SAMPA|/dr\{g/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/dɻæɡ/}}, {{SAMPA|/dr\`{g/}}
*: {{audio|En-us-drag.ogg|audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æɡ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|drags|dragging|'''[[dragged]] '''or, in some dialects,''' [[drug]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To [[pull]] along a [[surface]] or through a [[medium]], sometimes with difficulty.
# {{intransitive}} To move slowly.
#: ''Time seems to '''drag''' when you’re waiting for a bus.''
# {{idiom|drag one's feet}} To act or proceed slowly or without enthusiasm; to be reluctant.
# {{computer}} To move a mouse [[cursor]] while holding down a [[button]] on the [[mouse]], often to move something on the screen.
#: '''''Drag''' the file into the window to open it.''

====Derived terms====
* [[drag one's feet]]
* [[dragnet]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to pull along a surface}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|քաշել|tr=k'ašel}}, {{t|hy|քարշ տալ|tr=k'arš tal}}, {{t-|hy|ձգել|tr=jgel}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|táhnout}},  {{t-|cs|vléct}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|slepen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|raahata}}, {{t+|fi|kiskoa}}, {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|traîner}}
* German: [[schleifen]], [[schleppen]],
* Hebrew: {{t|he|גרר|m|tr=garar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|trainare}}
* Japanese: [[引く]] ([[ひく]], hiku), [[引きずる]] (ひきずる, hikizuru), [[引き離す]] (ひきはなす, hikihanasu)
* Latin: {{t-|la|trahere}},  {{t-|la|trahi|alt=trahī}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arrastar}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|slaod|xs=Scottish Gaelic}},  {{t-|gd|tarraing|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: [[ťahať]], [[vliecť]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|arrastrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move slowly}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vléct se}}
* Finnish: [[raahautua]] ([[eteenpäin]]), [[laahustaa]], [[madella]] (esp. of time)
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: [[ťahať sa]], [[vliecť sa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[ఈడ్చు]] (eeDchu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} Resistance of the air (or some other fluid) to something moving through it.
#: ''When designing cars, manufacturers have to take drag into consideration.''
# {{countable|foundry}} The bottom part of a sand [[casting]] [[mold]].
# A device dragged along the bottom of a body of water in search of something, e.g. a dead body.
# A puff on a cigarette or joint.
# {{countable|slang}} Someone or something that is [[annoying]] or [[frustrating]].
# {{countable|slang}} Someone or something that is [[disappointing]].
# {{uncountable|slang}} Women’s [[clothing]] worn by men for the purpose of [[entertainment]].
# {{uncountable|slang}} Any type of [[clothing]] or [[costume]] associated with a particular [[occupation]] or [[subculture]] ([[corporate]] drag).
# {{slang}} Horse-drawn wagon or buggy. {{defdate|from mid-18th c.}}
# {{slang}} Street, as in '[[main drag]]'. {{defdate|from mid-19th c.}}

====Derived terms====
* [[drag queen]]
* [[drag racing]]
* [[main drag]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|resistance of the air or some other fluid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|luchtweerstand}}
* Finnish: [[väliaine|väliaineen]] [[vastus]], [[ilmanvastus]], [[vesi|veden]] [[vastus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Widerstand]] {{m}}, [[Luftwiderstand]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[odpor]] [[vzduch|vzduchu]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|foundry: bottom part of a sand casting mold}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device for dragging along the bottom of a body of water}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|naara}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|puff on cigarette}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|savut|p}}, {{t|fi|blossi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taffe|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|someone or something that is annoying or frustrating}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|belemmering}}, {{t|nl|hinderpaal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[harmi]], [[harminkappale]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|someone or something that is disappointing}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pettymys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: women’s clothing worn by men}}
<!-- Only SLANG here, please -->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|drag}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Mongolian}}: [[татах]] (tatakh), [[зурах]] (zurakh)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adgr}}
* [[grad#English|grad]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Gaits]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|sla|ro}} ''[[dragŭ]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[drag]|lang=ro}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj|4}}

# [[dear]]

====Declension====
{{ro-adj-4|drag}}

====Usage notes====
This word can be used as a term of address, in the same way as "dear," "honey," and "sweetie" are used in English.

====Derived terms====
* [[dragoste]]
* [[drăgălaş]]
* [[drăguţ]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/drâːg/|lang=sh}}

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|dorgъ|lang=sh}}.

===Adjective===
{{sh-adjective|head=drȃg|def=dragi|def_a=drȃgī|comp=draži|comp_a=drȁžī|r|драг|дра̑г}}

# [[dear]]

====Declension====
{{sh-adj-full|drag|o|draž|e}}

----

==Slovene==

===Adjective===
{{infl|sl|adjective|g=m}}

# [[dear]] (loved; lovable)

{{tbot entry|Slovene|dear|2008|April|sl}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-drag.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}
'''drag''' {{n}}

# [[feature]], [[trait]], [[characteristic]]
# [[lure]], [[trolling spoon]]
# {{chess|lang=sv}} [[move]], [[stroke]]

====See also====
* [[dra]]

[[ar:drag]]
[[de:drag]]
[[el:drag]]
[[es:drag]]
[[fa:drag]]
[[fr:drag]]
[[io:drag]]
[[it:drag]]
[[kn:drag]]
[[hu:drag]]
[[ml:drag]]
[[pl:drag]]
[[pt:drag]]
[[ru:drag]]
[[simple:drag]]
[[sl:drag]]
[[fi:drag]]
[[sv:drag]]
[[ta:drag]]
[[te:drag]]
[[ur:drag]]
[[vi:drag]]
[[zh:drag]]