==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[drive train]]
A family owned and operated business established in 1978 in Las bldg1_large.jpgVegas, Nevada, we are an automotive parts warehouse distribution system for automobiles and light and heavy-duty trucks with several shipping locations through out the United States. We specialize in drivetrain related areas and provide experience and expertise to assist you in getting the correct parts the first time. Free diagnostics and road testing are offered, as well as free troubleshooting support via telephone. Purchase your parts at drivetrainsuperstore.com and receive free technical telephone support during installation if required, by skilled mechanics and staff.

Your orders will be shipped quickly with freight services through FedEx or the United States Postal Service from our warehouse facility closest to you to help keep freight costs low. International orders will also be shipped via FedEx or the United States Postal Service. Heavy items typically ship with BAX Global.

We have a driveline manufacturing and repair facility in Las Vegas as well as a large four bay automotive differential and drivetrain shop with expert mechanics on staff. We also have the capability to work on large motorhomes and heavy-duty vehicles.

Our Las Vegas facility is located at 3852 Pioneer Avenue. This street runs west off Valley View Blvd., between Desert Inn Road and Spring Mountain Road, west of Las Vegas Blvd.. Spring Mountain Road runs west off of Las Vegas Blvd. on the north side of Treasure Island.

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# [[powertrain]]

[[fi:drivetrain]]