{{see also|друг}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/dɹʌɡ/|[dɹʌɡ]|[d͡ʒɹʌɡ]|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-drug.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʌɡ|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|drogge||medicine}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{m|frm|drogue||cure, pharmaceutical product}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|drogue}}, {{m|fro|drocque||tincture, pharmaceutical product}}, from {{etyl|dum|en}} or {{etyl|gml|en}} {{m|dum|droge}}, as in {{m|dum|droge}} {{m|dum|vate||dry vats, dry barrels}}, mistaking {{m|dum|droge}} for the contents, which were wontedly dried herbs, plants or wares. ''Droge'' comes from [[Middle Dutch]] {{m|dum|droghe|drōghe|dry}}, from {{etyl|odt|en}} {{m|odt|drōgi||dry}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*draugiz||dry, hard}}. Cognate with English {{m|en|dry}}, Dutch {{m|nl|droog||dry}}, German {{m|de|trocken||dry}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|pharmacology}} A [[substance]] used to treat an [[illness]], relieve a [[symptom]], or modify a [[chemical]] [[process]] in the [[body]] for a specific purpose.
#: ''Aspirin is a '''drug''' that reduces pain, acts against inflammation and lowers body temperature.''
#: ''The revenues from both brand-name '''drugs''' and generic '''drugs''' have increased.''
#* Milton
#*: whence merchants bring their spicy '''drugs'''
# A [[psychoactive]] [[substance]], especially one which is [[illegal]] and [[addictive]], [[ingest]]ed for [[recreational]] use, such as [[cocaine]].
#* '''1971''', [[w:Hunter S. Thompson|Hunter S. Thompson]], ''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'', Harper Perennial 2005 edition, page 3:
#*: We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the '''drugs''' began to take hold.
#* '''March 1991''', unknown student, "Antihero opinion", ''SPIN'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=QurB9YiFO9QC&pg=PA70 page 70]:
#*: You have a twelve-year-old kid being told from the time he's like five years old that all '''drugs''' are bad, they're going to screw you up, don't try them. Just say no. Then they try pot.
#* '''2005''', Thomas Brent Andrews, ''The Pot Plan: Louie B. Stumblin and the War on Drugs'', Chronic Discontent Books, ISBN 0976705605, [http://books.google.com/books?id=o9T5SwXNFE0C&pg=PA19 page 19]:
#*: The only thing working against the poor '''Drug''' Abuse Resistance Officer is high-school students. ... He'd offer his simple lesson: '''Drugs''' are bad, people who use '''drugs''' are bad, and abstinence is the only answer.
# Anything, such as a [[substance]], [[emotion]]{{,}} or [[action]], to which one is [[addict]]ed.
#* '''2005''', Jack Haas, ''Om, Baby! : a Pilgrimage to the Eternal Self'', page 8:
#*: Inspiration is my '''drug'''. Such things as spirituality, booze, travel, psychedelics, contemplation, music, dance, laughter, wilderness, and ribaldry — these have simply been the different forms of the '''drug''' of inspiration for which I have had great need {{...}}
#* '''2009''', Niki Flynn, ''Dances with Werewolves'', page 8:
#*: Fear was my '''drug''' of choice. I thrived on scary movies, ghost stories and rollercoasters. I dreamed of playing the last girl left alive in a slasher film — the one who screams herself hoarse as she discovers her friends' bodies one by one.
#* '''2010''', Kesha Rose Sebert (Ke$ha), with Pebe Sebert and Joshua Coleman (Ammo), ''Your Love Is My '''Drug'''''
#* '''2011''', Joslyn Shy, ''Introducing the Truth'', page 5:
#*: The truth is...eating is my '''drug'''. When I am upset, I eat...when I am sad, I eat...when I am happy, I eat.
# Any [[commodity]] that lies on hand, or is not [[salable]]; an article of slow sale, or in no [[demand]].
#* Fielding
#*: But sermons are mere '''drugs'''.
#* Dryden
#*: And virtue shall a '''drug''' become.

=====Usage notes=====
* Adjectives often used with "drug": dangerous, illicit, illegal, psychoactive, generic, hard, veterinary, recreational

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:pharmaceutical]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''drug'' (noun)}}
* {{l|en|antidrug}}
* {{l|en|blockbuster drug}}
* {{l|en|club drug}}
* {{l|en|counterdrug}}
* {{l|en|date rape drug}}
* {{l|en|designer drug}}
* {{l|en|disease modifying drug}}
* {{l|en|dissociative drug}}
* {{l|en|do drugs}}
* {{l|en|drug abuse}}
* {{l|en|drug addict}}
* {{l|en|drug baron}}
* {{l|en|drug dealer}}
* {{l|en|drug dog}}
* {{l|en|drug of choice}}
* {{l|en|drug on the market}}
* {{l|en|drug test}}
* {{l|en|drug-ridden}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|drugfree}}
* {{l|en|druggist}}
* {{l|en|druggie}}
* {{l|en|drugless}}
* {{l|en|druglord}}
* {{l|en|drugstore}}
* {{l|en|drugtaker}}
* {{l|en|drugtaking}}
* {{l|en|druggy}}
* {{l|en|fertility drug}}
* {{l|en|gateway drug}}
* {{l|en|love drug}}
* {{l|en|multidrug}}
* {{l|en|nondrug}}
* {{l|en|on drugs}}
* {{l|en|orphan drug}}
* {{l|en|polydrug}}
* {{l|en|postdrug}}
* {{l|en|prescription drug}}
* {{l|en|prodrug}}
* {{l|en|recreational drug}}
* {{l|en|small molecule drug}}
* {{l|en|street drug}}
* {{l|en|wonderdrug}}
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|substance used as a medical treatment|medicine}}

{{trans-top|psychoactive substance ingested for recreational use, especially illegal and addictive one}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|narkotik|m}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مُخَدِّر|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|թմրամիջոց}}, {{t+|hy|նարկոտիկ}}
* Azeri: {{t|az|narkotik}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|нарко́тык|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|নেশা|tr=nesha|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|дро́га|f}}, {{t+|bg|нарко́тик|m}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ဆေး|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|droga|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|毒品|tr=dúpǐn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|麻醉品|tr=mázuìpǐn}}, {{t+|cmn|麻醉|tr=mázuì}}, {{t+|cmn|麻藥}}, {{t+|cmn|麻药|tr=máyào}}, {{t+|cmn|麻醉劑}}, {{t+|cmn|麻醉剂|tr=mázuìjì}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|droga|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|stof|n}}, {{t|da|narkotikum}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|drug|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|uimasti}}, {{t|et|narkootikum}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huume}}, {{t+|fi|huumausaine}}
* French: {{t+|fr|drogue|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ნარკოტიკი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Droge|f}}, {{t+|de|Rauschgift|n}}, {{t+|de|Rauschmittel|n}}, {{t+|de|Betäubungsmittel|n}} {{qualifier|officialese}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ναρκωτικό|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|סַם|m|tr=sam}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|मादक|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|नशा|m|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|drog}}, {{t+|hu|kábítószer}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|eiturlyf|n}}, {{t+|is|fíkniefni|n}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|narkoba}}, {{t+|id|narkotik}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|麻薬|tr=まやく, mayaku}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|еліткіш|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|kk|есірткі|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|kk|есірткіш|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|kk|наша|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ថ្នាំញៀន|sc=Khmr|tr=tnam nyiən}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|마약|sc=Kore}} ({{t|ko|麻藥|sc=Kore}})
{{trans-mid}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|наркотик|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ky|баңгизат|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ຢາເສບຕິດ|sc=Laoo}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|narkotika|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|narkotikas|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|дрога|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|наркотик|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|narkotik}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|rusmiddel|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مخدر|tr=moxadder|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|narkotyk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|droga|f}}, {{t+|pt|narcótico|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|narcotică|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|нарко́тик|m}}, {{t+|ru|наркота́|f}} {{qualifier|slang}}, {{t+|ru|дурь|f}} {{qualifier|slang}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|дро́га|f}}, {{t|sh|наркотик|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|dróga|f}}, {{t+|sh|narkotik|m}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|droga|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|droga|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|droga|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|droga|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|drog|c}}, {{t+|sv|knark|n}}, {{t+|sv|narkotika|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|droga}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|мухаддир}}, {{t|tg|анвои нашъа}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ยาเสพติด|tr=yaa sèep dtìt|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uyuşturucu}}, {{t+|tr|narkotik}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|нарко́тик|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|مادک|m|tr=mādak|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t|ur|نشہ|m|tr=naśā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|narkotik}}, {{t|uz|tinchlantiruvchi}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thuốc mê}}, {{t+|vi|ma túy}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|cyffur|m}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|נאַרקאָטיק|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Catalan: {{t-check|ca|droga|f}}
* Danish: {{t-check|da|rusmiddel}}, {{t-check|da|narkotikum}}, {{t-check|da|narko}}, {{t-check|da|narkotika}}
* Hungarian: {{t+check|hu|kábítószer}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|droga|f}}, {{t-check|it|narcotico|m}}
* Kurdish: {{t+check|ku|tilyak|f}}, {{t+check|ku|narkotîk|f}}
* Malagasy: {{t-check|mg|zava-mahadomelona}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t-check|ms|dadah}}
* Norwegian: {{t-check|no|narkotikum|n}}, {{t-check|no|droge}}
* Persian: {{t+check|fa|دارو|tr=dâru}}
* Slovak: {{t-check|sk|narkotikum|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|droga|f}}
* Telugu: {{t+check|te|మత్తుమందు}}
* Turkish: {{t+check|tr|drog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|drugg}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To administer intoxicating drugs to, generally without the recipient's knowledge or consent.
#: ''She suddenly felt strange, and only then realized she'd been '''drugged'''.''
# {{label|en|transitive}} To add intoxicating drugs to with the intention of drugging someone.
#: ''She suddenly felt strange. She realized her drink must have been '''drugged'''.''
# {{label|en|intransitive}} To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines.
#: {{rfquotek|Ben Jonson}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to administer intoxicating drugs}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|дрогирам се}}, {{t|bg|взимам наркотици}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|fetovat|impf}}, {{t|cs|zdrogovat se|pf}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huumata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|droguer}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ναρκώνω}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|narkotigar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|narkošintis|impf}}, {{t|lt|kaifuoti|impf}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|дрогирати|alt=дроги́рати се}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|drogirati|alt=drogírati se}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|drogar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|droga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to add intoxicating drugs to something}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|drogeren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|[[βάζω]] [[ναρκωτικό]]}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|drogare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to prescribe or administer medicines}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lääkitä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Hebrew: {{t-check|he|לסמם|tr=lesamém}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Germanic ablaut formation, cognate with {{etyl|nl|-}} {{m|nl|droeg}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{m|de|trug}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{m|sv|drog}}, {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|drōg}}.

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|drag}}
#: ''You look like someone '''drug''' you behind a horse for half a mile.''
#* '''2005''', Diane Wilson, ''An Unreasonable Woman: A True Story of Shrimpers'' (ISBN 1603580417), page 193:
#*: When Blackburn called, I '''drug''' the telephone cord twenty feet out of the office and sat on the cord while I talked with him.

=====Usage notes=====
* Random House says that {{m|en||drug}} is "nonstandard" as the past tense of {{m|en|drag}}. Merriam-Webster once ruled that {{m|en||drug}} in this construction was "illiterate" but have since upgraded it to "dialect". The lexicographers of New World, American Heritage{{,}} and Oxford make no mention of this word.

===Etymology 3===

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} A [[drudge]].
#* William Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens''
#*: Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded / The sweet degrees that this brief world affords / To such as may the passive '''drugs''' of it / Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself / In general riot {{...}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:en:Drugs]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sh|ro}} {{m|sh|drug}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|m|drugi}}

# [[pole]], [[stick]]

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|druguri}}

# {{rfdef|lang=ro}}

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|sh|sla-pro|*drugъ}}, from {{etyl|ine-bsl-pro|sh}} {{m|ine-bsl-pro|*draugas}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sh}} {{m|ine-pro|*dʰrowgʰos}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/drûːɡ/|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=drȗg|r|друг|дру̑г}}

# [[friend]]
# [[comrade]]
# A common word used to address countrymen in the period of communist [[Yugoslavia]] (male)

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|drȗg|drȕgovi / drȗzi
|druga|drugova / druga
|drugu|drugovima / druzima
|druga|drugove / druge
|drȗže|drugovi / druzi
|drugu|drugovima / druzima
|drugom|drugovima / druzima
}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* {{l|sh|drúga}}
* {{l|sh|drùgār}}
* {{l|sh|drugòvati}}
* {{l|sh|drùškan}}
* {{l|sh|drúštvo}}
* {{l|sh|drùžba}}
{{mid2}}
* {{l|sh|drȕžbenīk}}
* {{l|sh|druželjùbiv}}
* {{l|sh|drùžica}}
* {{l|sh|drùžina}}
* {{l|sh|drúžiti}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|sh|drugàrica}}
* {{l|sh|drúga}}
* {{l|sh|drùžica}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|sh|prijatelj}}
* {{l|sh|drugar}}
* {{l|sh|frend}}

----

==Slovene==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=sl|/ˈdrúːk/}}
* {{sl-tonal|drȗg}}

===Adjective===
{{sl-adj|drúg|-}}

# [[other]], [[another]], [[different]]

====Declension====
{{sl-decl-adj|drúg}}

===See also===
* {{l|sl|drúgi}}

[[ar:drug]]
[[az:drug]]
[[ca:drug]]
[[cs:drug]]
[[de:drug]]
[[et:drug]]
[[el:drug]]
[[es:drug]]
[[eo:drug]]
[[eu:drug]]
[[fa:drug]]
[[fr:drug]]
[[ko:drug]]
[[hy:drug]]
[[hr:drug]]
[[io:drug]]
[[id:drug]]
[[it:drug]]
[[kn:drug]]
[[ku:drug]]
[[lo:drug]]
[[lt:drug]]
[[hu:drug]]
[[mg:drug]]
[[ml:drug]]
[[my:drug]]
[[nl:drug]]
[[ja:drug]]
[[pl:drug]]
[[pt:drug]]
[[ro:drug]]
[[ru:drug]]
[[simple:drug]]
[[sl:drug]]
[[sr:drug]]
[[sh:drug]]
[[fi:drug]]
[[sv:drug]]
[[ta:drug]]
[[te:drug]]
[[chr:drug]]
[[tr:drug]]
[[vi:drug]]
[[zh:drug]]