==English==

===Adjective===
{{head|en|adjective|pos=[[dry]] as a [[dead]] [[dingo|dingo's]] [[donger]]}} (''[[Appendix:Glossary#comparative|comparative]] [[drier than a dead dingo’s donger|drier than a dead dingo’s donger]], '''no superlative''''')

# {{context|Australia|simile|informal|lang=en}} Very dry, extremely dry.
#* '''2008''', Di Morrissey, ''Heart of the Dreaming'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=3KF4QA7alu4C&pg=PA376&dq=%22dry+as+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=utzJTq_RMuXFmAWKp-gt&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22dry%20as%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false page 376],
#*: ‘Not on a Sunday, mate. Town's as '''dry as a dead dingo′s donger'''. This is Queensland,’ explained one of the station hands.
#* '''2010''', Jessica Rudd, ''Campaign Ruby'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=jGmVMcx9IW8C&pg=PA180&dq=%22dry+as+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=atLJTv2zIMjEmAXP1ckc&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22dry%20as%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false page 181],
#*: ‘It′s been an absolute bloody stinker today, hasn′t it?’ said the tanned octogenarian in an almost indecipherable Australian accent. ‘'''Dry as a dead dingo′s donger'''.’
#* '''2010''', Peter FitzSimons, ''Tobruk'', eBook, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=UWRr3qHmH_YC&pg=PT299&dq=%22dry+as+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=DtjJTrLRK4T_mAXf99UX&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22dry%20as%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: Not a blade of anything seemed to grow in those parts; the whole place was as '''dry as a dead dingo′s donger''', and yet, somehow, just, the local population seemed to hang on.
# {{context|Australia|simile|informal|lang=en}} Very thirsty.
#* '''2001''', David Franklin, ''Looking for Sarah Jane Smith'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=T2Gax6htdHwC&pg=PT106&dq=%22drier+than+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=KePJTqPMJeTFmQXHh_AC&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&sqi=2&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22drier%20than%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: ‘No worries,’ Frank said, paying for his drink. ‘Boy, I need this. I′m '''drier than a dead dingo′s donger'''.’
#* '''2005''', Patrick Taylor, ''Now and in the Hour of Our Death'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ANLHQB_ATVoC&pg=PA70&dq=%22dry+as+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=dt_JTt2tCsLQmAWp7eQK&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22dry%20as%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false page 70],
#*: “Let′s have a bottle.” Tim leant across and whispered, “I′m as '''dry as a dead dingo′s donger'''.”
#* '''2010''', Gabrielle Lord, ''The Sharp End'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=rT70g0ba80sC&pg=PT86&dq=%22dry+as+a+dead+dingo%27s+donger%22&hl=en&ei=DtjJTrLRK4T_mAXf99UX&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22dry%20as%20a%20dead%20dingo%27s%20donger%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: ‘Christ, I need a beer,’ Brennan muttered. ‘I'm '''dry as a dead dingo′s donger'''.’

====Synonyms====
* [[dry as a nun's nasty]]