==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la}} {{term|dualis||lang=la|two}}, from {{term|duo|duo|lang=la|two}}, + adjective suffix {{term|-alis|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|dyo͝oəl}}, {{IPA|/djʊəl/}}, {{SAMPA|/djU@l/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|do͞o'əl}}, {{IPA|/ˈdu.əl/}}, {{SAMPA|/"du.@l/}}
*: {{rhymes|ʊəl}}
* {{homophones|duel}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Characterized by having two (usually equivalent) components.
# Double.
#: ''[[dual-headed]] computer''
# {{grammar}} Pertaining to [[grammatical]] [[number]] (as in singular and plural), referring to two of something, such as a pair of shoes, in the context of the '''[[singular]]''', '''[[plural]]''' and in some languages, '''[[trial number|trial]]''' grammatical number. Modern Arabic displays a dual number, as did Homeric Greek.

====Derived terms====
* [[duality]]
* [[dualism]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having two components}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|от две части}}
* Dutch: [[tweeledig]]
* Esperanto: [[duparta]], [[duala]], [[duobla]], [[binara]]
* Finnish: [[kaksikko]]- (''in compounds''), [[kaksois]]- (''in compounds'')
* French: {{t+|fr|double|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|duel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|dwi|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Manx]]: {{t|gv|dooblit}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|podwójny|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|двойной|tr=dvojnój}}, {{t+|ru|двойственный|tr=dvójstvennyj}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|doble}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|double}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|двоен}}
* Dutch: [[dubbel]]-
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|duobla|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[kaksikko]]- (''in compounds''), [[kaksinkertainen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|double|m|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|ganda|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Manx]]: {{t|gv|dooblit}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|podwójny|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|двойной|tr=dvojnój}}, {{t+|ru|двоякий|tr=dvojákij}}, {{t+|ru|сдвоенный|tr=sdvójennyj}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|doble}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|çift}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in grammar}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|duálový}}
* Finnish: [[kaksikko]]- (''in compounds''), [[duaalinen]], [[duaali]]- (''in compounds'')
* French: {{t+|fr|duel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|dual|xs=Indonesian}}
* Russian: [[двойственный]] (dvójstvennyj) {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dual}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|ia}}: dual
* {{ttbc|la}}: [[dualis]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: dual

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Of an item that is one of a pair, the other item in the pair.
# {{geometry}} Of a [[regular]] [[polyhedron]] with ''V'' vertices and ''F'' faces, the regular polyhedron having ''F'' vertices and ''V'' faces.
#: ''The octahedron is the dual of the cube.''
# {{grammar}} [[dual number]] The grammatical number of a noun marking two of something (as in singular, dual, plural), sometimes referring to two of anything ('''a couple of''', '''exactly two of'''), or a [[chirality]]-marked  [[pair]] (as in left and right, as with gloves or shoes) or in some languages as a discourse marker, "between you and me". A few languages display [[trial number]].
# {{mathematics}} Of a [[vector]] in an [[inner product space]], the [[linear]] [[functional]] corresponding to taking the [[inner product]] with that vector. The set of all duals is a [[vector space]] called the [[dual space]].

====See also====
* {{list|en|grammatical numbers}}
* [[unal]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|grammatical number of a noun marking two of something}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[مثنى]]}} (muṯánna)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|duál|m}}, {{t+|cs|dvojné číslo|n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|duel|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Dual|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[liczba]] [[podwójna]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[двойственное число]] (dvójstvennoje čisló) {{m}}
* {{trreq|sl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adlu}}
* [[auld#English|auld]]
* [[laud#English|laud]]
* [[udal#English|udal]]

[[Category:Two]]

----

==Irish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sga|ga}} {{term|dúal||tress, lock of hair|lang=sga}} < {{proto|Celtic|doklo-|lang=ga}} < {{proto|Indo-European|dok̑-lo-|lang=ga}} (compare Icelandic {{term|tagl||horse's tail|lang=is}}, Old English {{term|tægel|lang=ang}}, English {{term|tail}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[d̪ˠuəl̪ˠ]}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ga|noun|g=m}}

# [[tuft]]

====Declension====
{{ga-noun-m1|d|ual|uail}}

====Mutation====
{{ga mut cons|d|ual}}

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Noun===
{{gd-noun|g=m|gen=duail|pl=dualan}}

# [[birthright]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|gd|còir-bhreith}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|gd|bu dual do dh'isean an ròin a dhol chun na mara}}

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|pl=duales}}

# [[#English|dual]]
# {{grammar|lang=es}} [[#English|dual]]

[[ar:dual]]
[[de:dual]]
[[et:dual]]
[[es:dual]]
[[eo:dual]]
[[fr:dual]]
[[io:dual]]
[[kn:dual]]
[[lt:dual]]
[[hu:dual]]
[[ml:dual]]
[[my:dual]]
[[pl:dual]]
[[pt:dual]]
[[ru:dual]]
[[simple:dual]]
[[sv:dual]]
[[ta:dual]]
[[te:dual]]
[[tr:dual]]
[[vi:dual]]
[[zh:dual]]