==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=dub}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ʌb}}

===Etymology 1===
From a Late {{etyl|ang}} (11th century) word {{term|dubban||to knight by striking with a sword|lang=ang}} <!--(dubbade his sunu . . . to rīdere)''--> perhaps borrowed from Old French {{term|aduber||lang=fro}}, {{term|adober||lang=fro}} "equip with arms; adorn" (also 11th century, Modern French ''[[adouber]]''), of uncertain origin, but possibly from a  Frankish *{{term||dubban}}, cognate with Icelandic {{term|dubba|lang=is}}  (''dubba til riddara''). Compare also {{term|drub|lang=en}} for an English reflex of the Germanic word.

The modern sense of "to name" is from the 1590s.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|dub|b|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To confer [[knighthood]]; the conclusion of the ceremony was marked by a tap on the shoulder with the sword.
# {{transitive}} to [[name]], to [[entitle]], to [[call]]
# {{transitive}} to [[deem]]
#: ''A man of wealth is '''dubbed''' a man of worth.'' [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to confer knighthood}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|посвещавам}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|tot ridder slaan}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|lyödä ritariksi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|adouber}}
* Russian: [[посвящать]] в [[рыцарь|рыцари]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to name, to entitle, to call}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|наричам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nimittää}}, {{t+|fi|kutsua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|reconnaître}} (en tant que...)
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[дать]] [[прозвище]] или [[кличка|кличку]], [[окрестить]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apodar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From a shortening of the word {{term|double}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|dub|b|ing}}

# To make a [[copy]] from an [[original]] or [[master]] audio tape.
# To copy the [[audio]] track onto a film.
# To [[replace]] the original [[soundtrack]] of a film with a [[synchronized]] [[translation]]
# To [[mix]] audio tracks to produce a new sound; to [[remix]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[overdub]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to make a copy from an original or master audio tape}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|انتسخ|tr=intásakha}}, {{t+|ar|نسخ|tr=násakha}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|複製|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|复制|tr=fùzhì|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kopioida}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|写す|tr=うつす, utsusu}}, {{t+|ja|コピー|alt=コピーする|tr=kopī-suru}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дублировать|tr=dublírovat’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|копировать|tr=kopírovat’}} {{impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to copy the audio track onto a film}}
* Finnish: [[jälkiäänittää]], [[dubata]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szinkronizál}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дублировать|tr=dublírovat’}} {{impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to replace soundtrack with translation}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|配音|tr=pèiyīn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dabovat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|dubata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|doubler}}
* German: {{t-|de|synchronisieren}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μεταγλωττίζω}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szinkronizál}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|doppiare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|吹き替える|tr=ふきかえる, fukikaeru}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|menyuara}}, {{t-|ms|mengalih suara}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dublar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дублировать|tr=dublírovat’}} {{impf}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|พากย์|tr=pâak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mix audio tracks to produce a new sound; to remix}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|sämplätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{music}} A mostly [[instrumental]] remix with all or part of the vocals removed.
# {{music}} A style of [[reggae]] music involving mixing of different audio tracks.
# {{music}} A growing trend of music from 2009 to current in which bass [[distortion]] is synced off timing to electronic dance music.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[dub ska]]
* [[overdub]]
* [[dubstep]]

===Etymology 3===
Compare Irish word for "mire, stream", Welsh word for "water".

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{UK|dialect}} A [[pool]] or [[puddle]].
#: {{rfquotek|Halliwell}}

===Etymology 4===
{{rfe|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{slang}} A twenty dollar sack of [[marijuana]].
# {{slang}} Wheel [[rim]]s measuring 20 inches or more.

===Anagrams===
* [[BDU#English|BDU]]
* [[bud#English|bud]], [[Bud#English|Bud]]

[[Category:en:Music genres]]
[[Category:en:Recreational drugs]]

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dup/|lang=cs}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}, ''inanimate''

# [[oak]], [[oak tree]]

====Declension====
{{cs-decl-noun|dub|dubu|dubu|dub|dube|dubu|dubem|duby|dubů|dubům|duby|duby|dubech|duby}}

====Derived terms====
* [[dub balkánský]]
* [[dub cer]]
* [[dub červený]]
* [[dub letní]]
* [[dub pýřitý]]
* [[dub slovenský]]
* [[dub zimní]]

[[Category:cs:Trees]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{rafsi of|du}}

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|sla-pro|dǫbъ|lang=sh}}, from {{proto|ine-pro|dʰanw-|lang=sh}}.

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=dub|r|дуб}}

# [[oak]] {{gloss|wood}}
# {{archaic|lang=sh}} [[oak tree]]

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
{{sk-noun|g=m}}

# [[oak]], [[oak tree]]

====Declension====
{{sk-decl-noun|dub|duba, dubu|dubu|dub|dube|dubom|duby|dubov|dubom|duby|duboch|dubmi, dubami}}

[[Category:sk:Trees]]

----

==Volapük==

===Preposition===
'''dub'''

# [[by]]

[[Category:Volapük prepositions]]

[[cs:dub]]
[[de:dub]]
[[et:dub]]
[[el:dub]]
[[fa:dub]]
[[fr:dub]]
[[ko:dub]]
[[io:dub]]
[[id:dub]]
[[it:dub]]
[[kn:dub]]
[[lt:dub]]
[[hu:dub]]
[[mg:dub]]
[[ml:dub]]
[[my:dub]]
[[nl:dub]]
[[no:dub]]
[[pl:dub]]
[[pt:dub]]
[[ru:dub]]
[[sk:dub]]
[[fi:dub]]
[[ta:dub]]
[[te:dub]]
[[vi:dub]]
[[vo:dub]]
[[zh:dub]]