==English==

===Etymology===
Akin to Old Norse {{term|dumpa||to thump}} ( > Danish {{term|dumpe||to fall suddenly}})

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dʌmp/}}, {{SAMPA|/dVmp/}}
* {{rhymes|ʌmp}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A place where [[waste]] or [[garbage]] is left; a ground or place for [[#Verb|dumping]] ashes, refuse, etc.
#: ''A toxic waste '''dump'''.''
# A [[car]] or [[boat]] for dumping [[refuse]], etc.
# That which is [[#Verb|dumped]], especially in a [[chaotic]] way; a [[mess]].
# {{computing}} An act of [[#Verb|dumping]], or its result.
#: ''The new XML '''dump''' is coming soon.''
# A storage place for supplies, especially military.
# An [[unpleasant]], [[dirty]], [[disreputable]], or [[unfashionable]], [[boring]] or [[depressing]] looking place.
#: ''This place looks like a '''dump'''.''
#: ''Don't feel bad about moving away from this '''dump'''.''
# {{vulgar}} An act of [[defecation]]; a [[defecating]].
#: ''To take a '''dump'''.''
# A dull, gloomy state of the mind; sadness; melancholy; low spirits; despondency; ill humor (''usually plural'').
#: ''March slowly on in solemn '''dump'''.'' -- [[w:Hudibras|Hudibras]].
#: ''Doleful '''dumps''' the mind oppress.'' --[[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#: ''I was musing in the midst of my '''dumps'''.'' --[[w:John Bunyan|John Bunyan]].
# Absence of mind; revery.
# {{mining}} A pile of ore or rock.
# {{obsolete}} A melancholy strain or tune in music; any tune.
#: ''Tune a deploring '''dump'''.''
#: ''Play me some merry '''dump'''.'' --[[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
# {{obsolete}} An old kind of [[dance]].
# {{historical}} {{Australia}} A small [[coin]] made by [[punch]]ing a hole in a larger coin.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a place where waste or garbage is left}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|աղբանոց|tr=aġbanoc’|sc=Armn}}, {{t-|hy|զիբիլանոց|tr=zibilanoc’|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|бунище|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|bg|отвал|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|vuilnisbelt|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kaatopaikka}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|śmietnik|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|свалка|f|tr=sválka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|basural}}, {{t|es|tiradero}}, {{t|es|vertedero}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t|es|depósito}}, {{t|es|basurero|m}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t|it|discarica}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[release]], especially in large quantities and [[chaotic]] manner.
# {{transitive}} To [[discard]]; to [[get rid of]] something one does not want anymore.
# {{transitive}} {{computing}} To [[copy]] [[data]] from a [[system]] to another place or system, usually in order to [[archive]] it.
# {{transitive}} {{informal}} To end a [[relationship]] with.
# {{transitive}} To [[knock]] heavily; to [[stump]].
# {{transitive}} {{US}} To put or throw down with more or less of violence; hence, to unload from a cart by tilting it; as, to dump sand, coal, etc.
# {{transitive}} {{US}} To precipitate (especially snow) heavily.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:junk]]

====Derived terms====
* [[dumping car]], [[dump car]]
* [[dumping cart]], [[dump cart]]
* [[dump on]]
* [[dump and burn]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to release}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|стоварвам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|upuścić}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|dumpa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to discard, to get rid of}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|weggooi|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|отървавам се от|sc=Cyrl}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scaricare}}, {{t+|it|rovesciare}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|pozbyć się}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Sotho]]: {{t|st|lahla|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: [[tirar]] a la basura, {{t|es|arrojar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slänga}}, {{t+|sv|kasta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to copy data from a system to another place or system}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|riversare}}, {{t|it|scaricare dati}}
* Spanish: [[volcar]] en memoria
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|dumpa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to end a relationship}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|dumpen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tehdä bänät}}, {{t|fi|dumpata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|larguer}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|mollare}}, {{t+|it|piantare}}, {{t+|it|scaricare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zerwać}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lämna}}, {{t|sv|dumpa}}, {{t+|sv|fimpa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Dances]]

----

==Dutch==

===Verb===
{{infl|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|dumpen}}
# {{nl-verb-form|m=imp|dumpen}}

[[ar:dump]]
[[et:dump]]
[[es:dump]]
[[fr:dump]]
[[ko:dump]]
[[io:dump]]
[[kn:dump]]
[[mg:dump]]
[[ml:dump]]
[[nl:dump]]
[[pl:dump]]
[[ru:dump]]
[[simple:dump]]
[[sv:dump]]
[[ta:dump]]
[[tr:dump]]
[[vi:dump]]
[[zh:dump]]