{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "duo"}}
==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[twosome]], especially [[musicians]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|twosome, especially musicians}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duo|n}}, {{t+|nl|paar|n}}, {{t-|nl|koppel|n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|duo|m}}
* German: {{t-|de|Duo|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|duó}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[dúó]] {{n}}, [[par]] {{n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|duo|m}}, {{t+|it|duetto|m}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|duet|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dúo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[duet]]

===See also===
* [[trio]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|dou}}
* [[oud#English|oud]]


----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-duo.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=n}}

# [[twosome]]

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{infl|fi|noun}}

# [[#English|duo]], [[twosome]]

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-valo|du}}

----

==French==
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dyo/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|duo}} (combination of two things)
# [[duet]] (a musical composition for two performers)

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[d'où#French|d'où]]}} 

[[Category:fr:Music]]
----

==Interlingua==

===Cardinal number===
'''duo'''

# [[two]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''duo''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|duo]]
# {{music|lang=it}} [[duet]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

----

==Latin==
{{cardinalbox|la|I|II|III|unus|tres|ord=secundus|adv=bis|mult=duplex|dis=bini|disalt=bīnī|headlink=Appendix:Latin cardinal numerals|wplink=Duo}}

===Alternative forms===
* Symbol: '''II'''

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Indo-European|dwóh₁|lang=la}}. Cognates include Ancient Greek {{term|δύο|tr=duo|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}, Sanskrit {{term|sc=Deva|द्व|tr=dvá|lang=sa}} and Old English {{term|twa|twā|lang=ang}} (English {{term|two|lang=en}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/ˈdu.o/|lang=la}}
* {{audio|la-cls-duo.ogg|Audio (Classical)}}

===Numeral===
{{la-num-card|num=2}}

# {{cardinal|lang=la}} [[two]]; 2
#: ''Dixit '''duas''' res ei rubori fuisse.''
#:: He said that '''two''' things had abashed him.
#: ''Si versus horum '''duorum''' poetarum neglegetis, magna parte litterarum carebitis.''
#:: If you neglect the verses of these '''two''' poets, you will miss a great part of literature.
#: ''[[ne quidem|Ne]] Hercules [[ne quidem|quidem]] adversus '''duos'''.''
#:: [[not even|Not even]] Hercules fights against '''two'''.

====Usage notes====
See [[Appendix:Latin cardinal numerals#duo|Appendix:Latin cardinal numerals]]

====Inflection====
Irregular.  (Note: the word "duo", by definition, has no singular.)
{| class="prettytable"
!style="background:#{{Latincolour3}};"| ''Number''
!style="background:#{{Latincolour3}};" colspan=3| ''Plural''
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"|''Case \ Gender''
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| Masculine
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| Feminine
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| Neuter
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| ''[[nominative]]''
|style="background:#{{Latincolour2}};"| {{Notred|duo#Latin|duo}} || {{Notred|duae#Latin|duae}} || {{Notred|duo#Latin|duo}}
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| ''[[genitive]]''
|style="background:#{{Latincolour2}};"| {{Notred|duorum#Latin|duōrum}} || {{Notred|duarum#Latin|duārum}} || {{Notred|duorum#Latin|duōrum}}
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| ''[[dative]]''
|style="background:#{{Latincolour2}};"| {{Notred|duobus#Latin|duōbus}} || {{Notred|duabus#Latin|duābus}} || {{Notred|duobus#Latin|duōbus}}
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| ''[[accusative]]''
|style="background:#{{Latincolour2}};"| {{Notred|duos#Latin|duōs}} / {{Notred|duo#Latin|duo}}  || {{Notred|duas#Latin|duās}} || {{Notred|duo#Latin|duo}}
|-
!style="background:#{{Latincolour1}};"| ''[[ablative]]''
|style="background:#{{Latincolour2}};"| {{Notred|duobus#Latin|duōbus}} || {{Notred|duabus#Latin|duābus}} || {{Notred|duobus#Latin|duōbus}}
|}

====Related terms====
* [[dualis|duālis]]
* [[duplex]]
* [[duplico|duplicō]]
* [[duplus]]

====Derived terms====
* [[duabus sellis sedeo]]

====Descendants====
{{top2}}
* Catalan: {{l|ca|dos}}
* Esperanto: {{l|eo|du}}
* French: {{l|fr|deux}}
* Galician: {{l|gl|dous}}
* Interlingua: {{l|ia|dua}}
* Italian: {{l|it|due}}
{{mid2}}
* Novial: {{l|nov|du}}
* Occitan: {{l|oc|dos}}
* Portuguese: {{l|pt|dois}}
* Romanian: {{l|ro|doi}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|dos}}
* Walloon: {{l|wa|deus}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
* [[Appendix:Latin cardinal numerals]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Adjective===
{{cmn-adj|p|pin=duō|pint=duo1|tas=多}}

# [[many]]; [[much]]; [[more]]
#: ''[[zhe]] [[fen]] [[baozhi]] [[you]] '''[[hen]] [[duo]]''' [[guanggao]].''  "This newspaper has '''a lot of''' advertisement."
#: ''[[he]] [[tai]] [[duo]] [[kafei]] [[dui]] [[shenti]] [[bu]] [[hao]].''  "To drink coffee too '''much''' is bad for health."
#: ''[[women]] [[xuexiao]] [[de]] [[jianshenfang]] [[you]] [[hen]] [[duo]] [[tiyu]] [[qixie]].''  "There're '''many''' sports apparatuses in the gymnasium of our school.
#: ''[[zhe]] [[jian]] [[yiyuan]] [[li]] [[you]] [[hen]] [[duo]] [[bingren]]. (zhè jiàn yīyuàn li yǒu hěn duō bìngrén. 这间医院里有很多病人.)'' &mdash; There are '''many''' patients in this hospital.
#* [[Tangrenjie]] [[you]] '''[[hen]] [[duo]]''' [[Zhongguo]] [[fandian]].
#: there are '''many''' Chinese restaurants in Chinatown.

===Prefix===
{{cmn-pref|p|pin=duo1|pint=duo1|tas=多}}

# {{alternative spelling of|duo-#Mandarin|duo-}}

===Measure word===
{{rfc-header|Measure word|lang=cmn}}
{{cmn-mw|p|pin=duo3|pint=duo3|tas=朵}}

# a measure word (for flowers/clouds/etc.)
#* [[yi]]-[[duo]] [[dujuanhua]]
#: An azalea (flower).

===Pinyin syllable===
'''duo'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|[[duō]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|[[duó]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|[[duǒ]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|[[duò]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-irreg-c|2=duon|3=duor}}
'''duo''' {{c}}

# [[#English|duo]], [[duet]]

[[de:duo]]
[[et:duo]]
[[fr:duo]]
[[gl:duo]]
[[ko:duo]]
[[hr:duo]]
[[io:duo]]
[[is:duo]]
[[it:duo]]
[[kn:duo]]
[[ku:duo]]
[[la:duo]]
[[lt:duo]]
[[hu:duo]]
[[nl:duo]]
[[no:duo]]
[[pl:duo]]
[[pt:duo]]
[[ru:duo]]
[[sr:duo]]
[[fi:duo]]
[[sv:duo]]
[[te:duo]]
[[th:duo]]
[[tr:duo]]
[[uk:duo]]
[[vi:duo]]
[[zh:duo]]