==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# a formulaic phrase for a [[miller]], related to the dust generated in the milling process.
# one of several species of plants with leaves of a dusty appearance: [[w:Centaurea cineraria|Centaurea cineraria]], [[w:Senecio cineraria|Senecio cineraria]], and [[w:Lychnis coronaria|Lychnis coronaria]].

===Quotations===
*'''1829:''' Robert Chambers, ''The Scottish Songs'' p. 539:
*:Hey, the '''dusty miller''',<br>And his dusty coat!<br>He will win a shilling,<br>Ere he spend a groat.<br>Dusty was the coat,<br>Dusty was the colour;<br>Dusty was the kiss,<br>That I gat frea the miller.<br><br>Hey, the '''dusty miller''',<br>And his dusty sack!<br>Leeze me on the calling<br>Fills the dusty peck;<br>Fills the dusty peck,<br>Brings the dusty siller:<br>I wad gie my coatie<br>For the '''dusty miller'''.

*'''2005''': Baitinger, A, CAB abstract of "Miller - a job with promotion and opportunities for the future!", ''Mühle + Mischfutter'', (Vol. 142) (No. 8) 233-272
*:The stereotypical image of the '''"dusty miller"''', as depicted in popular legend and some traditional literature, is a barrier, and milling is seen by younger people as low-status. There is an urgent need to change this perception through measures such as changing the designation to something like "grain and feed processing technician" and improving training provision and prospects." 

===Reference===
*For more on the "dusty miller" occupational stereotype, see the following document fragment:[http://www.uwasa.fi/hut/english/occupation_as_metaphor.rtf].