==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|dwellan}}, which is from or cognate to {{cog|non|dvelja}}, itself from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*dwelaną||to go astray}}, which underwent semantic change in its descendants.<ref>[http://ordnet.dk/ods/opslag?id=437404 According to] [[:da:ODS|ODS]] "''(eng. dwell er '''laan fra nord.''')''", "English dwell is a loanword from Old Norse"</ref> Cognates include Danish {{m|da|dvæle}} and Swedish {{m|sv|dväljas}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|dwĕl}}, {{IPA|/dwɛl/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-dwell.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

* {{rhymes|ɛl|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|engineering}} A period of time in which a system or component remains in a given state.
# {{lb|en|engineering}} A brief [[pause]] in the motion of part of a [[mechanism]] to allow an operation to be completed.
# {{lb|en|electrical engineering}} A planned [[delay]] in a timed control program.
# {{lb|en|automotive}} In a petrol engine, the period of time the ignition [[points]] are closed to let current flow through the ignition coil in between each spark. This is measured as an angle in degrees around the camshaft in the distributor which controls the points, for example in a 4-cylinder engine it might be 55° (spark at 90° intervals, points closed for 55° between each).

===Verb===
{{en-verb|dwells|dwelling|dwelt|past2=dwelled|past2_qual=mostly US}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|now|_|literary}} To [[live]]; to [[reside]].
#* Peacham
#*: the parish in which I was born, '''dwell''', and have possessions
#* C. J. Smith
#*: The poor man '''dwells''' in a humble cottage near the hall where the lord of the domain resides.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[linger]] ('''[[on]]''') a particular thought, idea etc.; to remain [[fixated]] (on).
# {{lb|en|intransitive|engineering}} To be in a given state.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To abide; to remain; to continue.
#* Shakespeare
#*: I'll rather '''dwell''' in my necessity.
#* Wordsworth
#*: Thy soul was like a star and '''dwelt''' apart.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|dwelling}}
* {{l|en|dwell on}}, {{l|en|dwell upon}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|live, reside}}
* Arabic:
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|سْكن|tr=skən}}
* Armenian: {{t-needed|hy}}
* Basque: {{t-needed|eu}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|пражыва́ць|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|пражываць|impf|alt=жыць|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|живе́я|impf}}, {{t+|bg|обита́вам|impf}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|居住|tr=jūzhù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|住|tr=zhù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|居留|tr=jūliú|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bydlet}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|leve}}, {{t|da|forblive}}, {{t|da|bebo}}, {{t+|da|bo}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rondhangen}}, {{t+|nl|verblijven}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|loĝi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|asua}}, {{t+|fi|oleskella}}, {{t+|fi|asustaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|résider}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|leben}}, {{t+|de|verbleiben}}, {{t+|de|wohnen}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ναίω|sc=polytonic}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lakik}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tinggal}}, {{t+|id|diam|alt=berdiam}}, {{t+|id|diam|alt=mendiami}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cónaigh}}, bheith i do {{t|ga|cónaí|m|alt=chónaí}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|abitare}}, {{t-check|it|dimorare}}<ref>''Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese (in collaborazione con Oxford University Press)''. Edited by Maria Cristina Bareggi. Torino: Paravia, 2003. [[W:Wikipedia:book sources|ISBN 8839551107]]. Online version [http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ here]</ref><!-- what do we do with this? -->
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|住む|tr=sumu}}, {{t+|ja|居住|tr=kyojū suru|alt=居住する}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|នៅ|sc=Mymr}}, {{t|km|រស់នៅ|sc=Mymr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|살다}}, {{t+|ko|거주하다}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|mist}}, {{t+|lv|dzīvot}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|noho}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|būan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mieszkać}}, {{t+|pl|zamieszkiwać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|habitar}}, {{t+|pt|morar}}, {{qualifier|Brazil}} {{t+|pt|viver}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|trăi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прожива́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|жить|impf}}, {{t+|ru|обита́ть|impf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|còmhnaich}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|boraviti|impf}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|bivati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|habitar}}, {{t+|es|morar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bo}}, {{t+|sv|leva}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|నివసించు}}
* Thai: {{t-needed|th}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oturmak}}, {{t+|tr|ikamet etmek}}, {{t+|tr|eğleşmek}}, {{t+|tr|kalmak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|ме́шкати|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|жи́ти|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|uk|прожива́ти|impf|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|dimorer}}, {{t+|wa|dimani}}, {{t+|wa|lodjî}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|וווינען}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to linger on as thoughts}}
* Danish: {{t|da|dvæle}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|gremdēties}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|rauroha}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|abide}}
* {{l|en|live}}
* {{l|en|reside}}
* {{l|en|stay}}

===References===
<references/>
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]