{{also|dike}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/daɪk/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
Variant of {{m|en|dike}}, from Northern {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|dik}} and {{m|enm|dike}}, from {{etyl|non|en}} {{m|non|díki||[[ditch]]}}. Cognate with Dutch {{m|nl|dijk}} and German {{m|de|Teich}}. ''See also'' '''[[ditch]]'''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|UK}} A [[ditch]] (rarely also refers to similar natural features, and to one natural valley, Devil's Dyke, Sussex, due to a legend that the devil dug it).
# {{label|en|British}} An [[embankment]] to prevent [[inundation]], or a [[causeway]].
#* '''1891''': {{quote-book|last=Hale|first=Susan|title=Mexico|series=The Story of the Nations|volume=27|location=London|publisher=T. Fisher Unwin|page=100}}
#*: The king of Texcuco advised the building of a great '''dike''', so thick and strong as to keep out the water.
# {{label|en|UK|mainly Scotland and N England}} A mound of earth, stone- or turf-faced, sometimes topped with [[hedge]] planting, or a hedge alone, used as a [[fence]].
# {{label|en|UK|mainly Scotland and N England}} A dry-stone [[wall]] usually forming a [[boundary]] to a [[wood]], [[field]] or [[garden]].
# {{label|en|British|geology}} A body of once molten [[igneous]] [[rock]] that was injected into older rocks in a manner that crosses bedding planes.
# {{label|en|Australia|slang}} A [[toilet]].
#: '''1977''', ''In Cubbaroo's dim distant past <br> They built a double dyke. <br> Back to back in the yard it stood <br> An architectural dream in wood'' <br> &mdash; Ian Slack-Smith, ''The Passing of the Twin Seater'', from ''The Cubbaroo Tales'', 1977. Quoted in ''Aussie Humour'', Macmillan, 1988, ISBN 0-7251-0553-4, page 235.
# {{label|en|UK|mainly S England}} An earthwork consisting of a ditch and a parallel [[rampart]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|barrier of stone or earth}} [[bank]], [[embankment]], [[dam]], [[levee]], [[breakwater]], [[floodwall]], [[seawall]]
* {{sense|long, narrow excavation}} [[ditch]]
=====Related terms=====
* [[ditch]]
* [[dig]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|ditch}}

{{trans-top|ditch and bank running alongside each other}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|канавка|f}}, {{t|bg|отводнителен канал}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sloot|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vallihauta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fossé|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Graben|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fosso|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|trincheira|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|сто́чная кана́ва|f}}, {{t+|ru|кана́ва|f}}, {{t+|ru|ров|m}}, {{t+|ru|транше́я|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|barrier to prevent flooding}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ամբարտակ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|дига|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hráz|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|dige|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dijk|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tamm}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tulvapato}}
* French: {{t+|fr|digue|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Deich|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cladán|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|diga|f}}, {{t+|it|argine|m}}, {{t+|it|barriera|f}}, {{t+|it|terrapieno|m}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|둑|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t|la|diga|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|канач|m|tr=kánač}}, {{t|mk|трапиште|n|tr=trápište}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|ahuriri}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dique|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|dig|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|да́мба}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dique|m}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|clawdd|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geology: body of once igneous rock injected into older rocks}}
* German: {{t|de|Gesteinsgang|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|dingeán|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|dicco|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{wikipedia|Dyke (slang)}}
{{unk.|en}}. Attested US 1942, in Berrey and Van den Bark’s ''American Thesaurus of Slang''.<ref>"dike, dyke, n.3" ''The Oxford English Dictionary''. 2nd ed. 1989, OED Online, Oxford UP, April 4, 2000.[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50064031].</ref>

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|lang=en|slang|usually|_|pejorative}} A [[lesbian]], [[particularly]] [[one]] with [[masculine]] or [[macho]] [[trait]]s or [[behavior]].

=====Usage notes=====
This term for a lesbian is often derogatory (or taken as such) when used by heterosexuals but is also used by some lesbians and bisexual women to refer to themselves positively. See {{w|reclaimed word}} and {{w|reappropriation}} for discussion.

=====Synonyms=====
* ''See'' '''[[Wikisaurus:female homosexual]]'''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[bulldyke]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top-see|masculine lesbian|lesbian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--generic lesbian words should be at [[lesbian]], not here-->
* Danish: {{t|da|lebbe|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pot|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lesbo}}, {{t+|fi|lepakko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gouine|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Lesbe|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lesbica|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|lesba|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sapatão|m}}, {{t+|pt|fufa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лесбия́нка|f}}, {{t|ru|ле́сби|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|lezbijka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tortillera|f}}, {{t+|es|bollo|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|flata|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|tibo}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sevici}}, {{t+|tr|ablacı}} {{qualifier|slang}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[E.D. Ky.#English|E.D. Ky.]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:LGBT]]

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang|sco}} {{m|ang|dīc}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dəik/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# A dry-stone [[wall]] usually forming a [[boundary]] to a [[wood]], [[field]] or [[garden]].
# A mound of earth, stone- or turf-faced, sometimes topped with [[hedge]] planting, used as a fence between any two portions of land.
# A [[hedge]]

[[et:dyke]]
[[eo:dyke]]
[[fa:dyke]]
[[fr:dyke]]
[[ko:dyke]]
[[io:dyke]]
[[kn:dyke]]
[[ku:dyke]]
[[hu:dyke]]
[[ml:dyke]]
[[nl:dyke]]
[[pl:dyke]]
[[ru:dyke]]
[[simple:dyke]]
[[fi:dyke]]
[[sv:dyke]]
[[ta:dyke]]
[[te:dyke]]
[[vi:dyke]]
[[zh:dyke]]