==Japanese==
===Determiner===
{{ja-pos|h|determiner|kanji=其の|rom=sono}}

# ''([[deictically]])'' [[that]] ... near you (near the adressee)
#: [[私]]が[[読む|読みたい]][[本]][[は]]、'''その'''[[本]][[です]]。
#:: わたしがよみたいほんは、'''その'''ほんです。
#:: ''Watashi ga yomitai hon wa, '''sono''' [[hon]] desu.''
#::: What I want to read is '''that''' [[book]].
# ''([[anaphorically]])'' [[the]] ... we are talking.
# of it. [[its]].

====See also====
{{Japanese demonstratives}}

====Usage notes====
* その is anaphorically used to refer to things and experiences that either the speaker or the listener knows about, but not both. Compare the two following sentences,
*: '''その'''本はやすいですか？
*:: Is that book which you (have/saw/were talking about) cheap? ''(anaphorically)''
*:: Is that book (I'm pointing to/near you/of yours) cheap? ''(deictically)''
*: '''あの'''本はやすいですか？
*:: Is the book (we are talking about) cheap? ''(anaphorically)''
*:: Is that book (over there, which you and I can see) cheap? ''(deictically)''
*The hiragana spelling ([[その]]) is preferred to the kanji spelling ([[其の]]), which is rarely used.

====Related terms====
* [[この]] ([[kono]]): (''demonstrative'') [[this]]
* [[あの]] ([[ano]]): (''demonstrative'') [[that]] (near the listener)
* [[どの]] ([[dono]]): (''demonstrative'') [[which]]
* [[そこ]] ([[soko]]): [[there]]
* [[それ]] ([[sore]]): [[it]], [[that]]
* [[そちら]] ([[sochira]]): (''polite'') [[there]]; that direction

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|h|rom=sono}}

# {{ja-def|園}} [[garden]]; [[park]]; [[plantation]]
# {{ja-def|苑}} [[garden]]

===Kanji reading===
{{ja-kanjireading|rom=sono}}

====Kun-reading of:====
* [[你]]
* [[伱]]
* [[儞]]
* [[尓]]
* [[苑]]
* [[您]]
* [[園]]
* [[爾]]
* [[薗]]
* [[丌]]
* [[其]]
* [[厥]]
* [[囿]]
* [[尔]]
* [[菀]]
* [[該]]

[[ko:その]]
[[la:その]]
[[ja:その]]
[[pt:その]]
[[uk:その]]