{{also|ぞう|Appendix:Variations of "so"|Appendix:Variations of "sou"}}
==Japanese==

===Etymology 1===
{{IPAchar|/sau/}} → {{IPAchar|/sɔː/}} → {{IPAchar|/soː/}}

====Adverb====
{{ja-pos|adverb|hhira=さう}}

# {{ja-def|然う}} [[so]], like that, in such a way

=====See also=====
{{Japanese demonstratives}}

====Interjection====
{{ja-pos|interjection|hhira=さう}}

# {{ja-def|然う}} [[yes]], [[yeah]]; it's like that; that's how it is; I see. (interjection to show that the speaker is paying attention)

=====Synonyms=====
* {{ja-r|はい}}
* {{ja-r|その通り|その とおり}}
* {{ja-r|うん}}

===Etymology 2===
{{IPAchar|/sau/}} → {{IPAchar|/sɔː/}} → {{IPAchar|/soː/}}

Probably either a shift from {{m|ja|様|tr=sama}}, or directly from {{m|ja|相|tr=sō}}.  Appears from the {{w|Muromachi period}}.<ref name="KDJ">{{R:Kokugo Dai Jiten}}</ref><ref name="DJR">{{R:Daijirin}}</ref>

Possibly influenced by, or developed by analogy to, the adverbial and interjectional ''sō'' ({{m|ja|然う}}).

====Pronunciation====
{{ja-pron}}
* In Tokyo accent, the accent of the verb construction depends on the suffixed verb:<ref>[http://www.gavo.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp/ojad/kouzokugo Online Japanese Accent Dictionary (OJAD)]</ref>
{| class=wikitable
! !! Suffixed verb is accented !! Suffixed verb is non-accented
|-
! Continuative stem + {{ja-r|そう}} (evidential)
| Result has the accent on the {{ja-r|そ}} mora<br>Example: <span lang="ja" class="Jpan">つ<span style="border-top:1px solid black;position:relative;padding:1px;">くりそ<span style="position:absolute;top:0;bottom:67%;right:0%;border-right:1px solid black;">&#8203;</span></span>ーだ</span> <span class="Latn"><samp>[tsùkúrísóꜜòdà]</samp></span>
| Result is non-accented<br>Example: <span lang="ja" class="Jpan">あ<span style="border-top:1px solid black">そびそーだ</span></span> <span class="Latn"><samp>[àsóbísóódá]</samp></span>
|-
! Finite form + {{ja-r|そう}} (hearsay)
| Result keeps the original accent<br>Example: <span lang="ja" class="Jpan">つ<span style="border-top:1px solid black;position:relative;padding:1px;">く<span style="position:absolute;top:0;bottom:67%;right:0%;border-right:1px solid black;">&#8203;</span></span>るそーだ</span> <span class="Latn"><samp>[tsùkúꜜrùsòòdà]</samp></span>
| Result is accented on the {{ja-r|そ}} mora<br>Example: <span lang="ja" class="Jpan">あ<span style="border-top:1px solid black;position:relative;padding:1px;">そぶそ<span style="position:absolute;top:0;bottom:67%;right:0%;border-right:1px solid black;">&#8203;</span></span>ーだ</span> <span class="Latn"><samp>[àsóbúsóꜜòdà]</samp></span>
|}

====Suffix====
{{ja-pos|suffix}}

# {{lb|ja|jodōshi}} [[seem]]ing that, seeming like, [[appear]]ing that

=====Usage notes=====
This productive suffix meaning ''seeming like'' can come after a full phrase in plain form, or after a verb or adjective stem, thereby forming a "-na" adjective.

* After a full phrase in plain form, the resulting phrase implies reported speech, something heard from someone else. For example, the verb {{l|ja|降る|tr=''furu'', "to fall from the sky"}} plus this suffix forms 降る'''そう''' (''furu '''sō''''', "'''I've heard that''' it will rain" or "'''someone told me that''' it will rain"). The adjective {{l|ja|美味しい|tr=''oishii'', "delicious"}} plus this suffix forms 美味しい'''そう''' (''oishii '''sō''''', "'''I've heard that''' it's delicious").

* After a verb or adjective stem, the resulting word means ''it looks like X''. For example, the stem 降り of the verb {{l|ja|降る|tr=''furu'', "to fall from the sky"}} plus this suffix forms 降り'''そう''' (''furi'''sō''''', "it '''looks''' like it will rain"). The stem 美味し of the adjective {{l|ja|美味しい|tr=''oishii'', "delicious"}} plus this suffix forms 美味し'''そう''' (''oishi'''sō''''', "'''looks''' delicious"). However, {{l|ja|良い|いい}}＋そう becomes よさそう and {{l|ja|ない}}＋そう becomes なさそう.

The suffix should not be used after stem forms describing visually obvious physical traits like color. Although 赤い'''そう''' (''akai '''sō''''', "'''I've heard that''' it's red") would be valid, *赤'''そう''' (''aka'''sō''''', "it '''looks''' red") would not. Another example of this is that かわいい ({{l|ja|可愛い}}) means someone looks cute so it does not need another そう. ({{l|ja|かわいそう}} does exist, but means "pitiful" or "poor".) The suffix should, however, be used when describing another person's mood or mental state. For example, if another person looks glad, one says 嬉し'''そう''' (''ureshi'''sō''''', "you '''look''' glad"), which is more natural and polite than saying {{l|ja|嬉しい|tr=''ureshii'', "you are glad"}}.

===Etymology 3===
Various.

====Adjective====
{{ja-adj|infl=na}}

# {{ja-def|壮}} [[vibrant]], [[manly]], [[brave]]

====Counter====
{{ja-pos|counter}}

# {{ja-def|双}} [[pair]]s
# {{ja-def|壮}}
# {{ja-def|層}} [[floor]]s in a building
# {{ja-def|艘}} small [[boat]]s

====Noun====
{{ja-noun}}

# {{ja-def|双}} [[pair]]
# {{ja-def|壮}} [[vibrancy]], [[powerfulness]]; the [[prime of life]]
# {{ja-def|宗}}
# {{ja-def|奏}} a [[statement]] made to the [[emperor]]; a [[document]] or [[writing]] of such a statement; a [[musical]] [[performance]]
# {{ja-def|相}} [[aspect]], [[phase]], [[dimension]]
# {{ja-def|草}} [[draft]], rough copy
# {{ja-def|荘|庄}} [[manor]]
# {{ja-def|曹}}
# {{ja-def|喪}}
# {{ja-def|惣}}
# {{ja-def|葬}} [[burial]]
# {{ja-def|装}} [[clothing]]; [[binding]] of a [[book]]
# {{ja-def|僧}} [[priest]], [[monk]], [[bonze]]
# {{ja-def|想}} [[idea]], [[thought]]
# {{ja-def|層}} [[stratum]], [[layer]], [[seam]], [[tier]]
# {{ja-def|争}} [[conflict]], [[quarrel]]
# {{ja-def|箏}}
# {{ja-def|甑}}
# {{ja-def|騒}} [[noise]]
# {{ja-def|左右}} [[left]] and [[right]]
# {{ja-def|疎雨|疏雨}} [[sparse]] [[rain]]

====Prefix====
{{ja-pos|prefix}}

# {{ja-def|総}} [[gross]], [[general]]

====Proper noun====
{{ja-pos|proper}}

# {{ja-def|壮}} {{given name|ja|male}}
# {{ja-def|宗}} {{surname|ja}}
# {{ja-def|宋}} [[Song]]

====Suffix====
{{ja-pos|suffix}}

# {{ja-def|走}} [[race]], [[run]]

====Verb====
{{ja-verb}}

# {{ja-def|添う|副う}} to [[accompany]]; to [[comply]] with
# {{ja-def|沿う}} to [[follow]]; to [[run]] [[along]]
# {{ja-def|候}} (''[[auxiliary]]'') [[be]], [[do]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:Japanese basic words]]