{{also|Appendix:Variations of "a"}}
==English==

===Usage notes===
Different Germanic senses of ''a-'' became confused – vaguely “intensive” – and are no longer productive. The Greek sense of “not” (e.g., {{term|amoral}}) remains productive.
: “[I]t naturally happened that all these ''a-'' prefixes were at length confusedly lumped together in idea, and the resultant ''a-'' looked upon as vaguely intensive, rhetorical, euphonic, or even archaic, and wholly otiose.” OED.

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|a-|ā-|lang=ang}}, originally {{term|ar-|lang=ang}}. Cognate with German {{term|er-|lang=de}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ə/}}, {{SAMPA|/@/}}

====Prefix====
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# {{no longer productive}} {{non-gloss definition|forming verbs with the sense ''away'', ''from'', ''out''}}
#: [[arise]], [[await]]

===Etymology 2===
A proclitic form of preposition {{term|a}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ə/}}, {{SAMPA|/@/}}

====Prefix====
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# {{no longer productive}} [[in]], [[on]]
#: [[apace]]<!-- I believe that this is an example; see OED and Online Etymology Dictionary on difficulties distinguishing these -->, [[afire]], [[aboil]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|enm}} variant form of {{term|y-|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|ge-|ġe-|lang=ang}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ə/}}, {{SAMPA|/@/}}

====Prefix====
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# {{no longer productive}} {{non-gloss definition|representing the Anglo-Saxon intensifying prefix, sometimes with little change in meaning}}, e.g. [[aware]]
#* ''[[w:The Twelve Days of Christmas (song)|The Twelve Days of Christmas]]'':
#*: On the sixth day of Christmas my true love gave to me.
#*: Six geese '''a'''-laying
#* '''1939''', [[:w:Alfred Edward Housman|Alfred Edward Housman]], ''Additional Poems'', XIII, lines 6-7:
#*:Oh waste no words '''a-'''wooing
#*:The soft sleep to your bed;

===Etymology 4===
From {{etyl|xno}} {{term|a-|lang=xno}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|e-|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|ex-|lang=la}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ə/}}, {{SAMPA|/@/}}

====Prefix====
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# {{no longer productive}} {{non-gloss definition|forming words with the sense of ''wholly'', ''out''}}, e.g. [[abash]]

===Etymology 5===
From {{etyl|grc}} {{term|sc=polytonic|ἀ-|tr=a-|lang=grc}} ({{term|sc=polytonic|ἀν-|tr=an-|lang=grc}} immediately preceding a vowel).

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ə/|/eɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/@/|/eI/}}

====Prefix====
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Forming words denoting absence or lack, e.g. [[abyss]], [[amoral]], usually with stems beginning with [[consonants]].}}
#* '''1948''' (revised 1952), [[w:Robert Graves|Robert Graves]], ''The White Goddess'', Faber & Faber 1999, p. 7:
#*: When invited to believe in the Chimaera, the horse-centaurs, or the winged horse Pegasus, all of them straightforward Pelasgian cult-symbols, a philosopher felt bound to reject them as '''a-zoölogical''' improbabilities [...].

======Related terms======
* [[an-]]

===References===
* {{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}}

[[Category:English terms with alpha privatives|*]]

----

==Ainu==
{{wrongscript/box}}
[[Category:Requests for language cleanup July]]
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/a/|lang=ain}}

===Etymology===
From older Ainu [[an-]], of the same meaning.

===Prefix===
{{infl|ain|prefix}}

# a passive prefix to verbs

====Usage notes====
* The Sakhalin dialect of Ainu still uses the old form [[an-]].
* This is not always prefixed to the verb it governs; other words may intervene between them.

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|hr}} {{term|sc=polytonic|ἀ-|tr=a-|lang=grc}} ({{term|sc=polytonic|ἀν-|tr=an-|lang=grc}} immediately preceding a vowel).

===Prefix===
{{infl|hr|prefix}}

# Prefix prepended to words to denote a negation, deprivation or absence of a property denoted by base word.
#:* {{term|a-|lang=hr}} + {{term|socijalan|lang=hr}} → {{term|asocijalan|lang=hr}}
#:* {{term|a-|lang=hr}} + {{term|simetrija|lang=hr}} → {{term|asimetrija|lang=hr}}
#:* {{term|a-|lang=hr}} + ''brahija'' → {{term|abrahija|lang=hr}}

----

==French==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro|fr}}, from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|ad-|lang=la}}.

====Prefix====
{{infl|fr|prefix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|A prefix forming words, especially verbs, that denote entering a state, making progress toward a goal, or the like.}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|grc|fr}} {{term|sc=polytonic|ἀ-|tr=a-|lang=grc}} ({{term|sc=polytonic|ἀν-|tr=an-|lang=grc}} immediately preceding a vowel); generalized from the many Latin borrowings using this prefix.

====Prefix====
{{infl|fr|prefix}}

# [[#English|a-]], [[non-]], [[-less]].

===References===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Italian==

===Prefix===
'''a-'''

# [[#English|a-]] (indicating lack or loss)

====Synonyms====
* [[an-]]

[[Category:Italian prefixes]]

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* [[ab-]], [[abs-]]

===Etymology===
From {{term|ab||lang=la|away from}}

===Prefix===
{{infl|la|prefix}}

# [[from]], [[away]], away from
# [[off]]
# at a [[distance]]
# [[completely]], [[thoroughly]]
# [[absence]] of
# more [[remote]]

====Usage notes====
* used before consonants, but not usually not 'c' or 't'.
* before a word beginning with "f," becomes "au-" as in [[auferre]]
* before a word beginning with "p," becomes "as-" as in [[asportare]]

----

==Navajo==

===Prefix===
{{infl|nv|prefix}}

# [[someone]]'s, [[people]]'s

====Usage notes====
This prefix is often used as a neutral possessive pronoun to make the citation forms of [[inalienable]] nouns: {{term|amá|lang=nv||someone’s mother}}, {{term|akʼos|lang=nv||someone’s neck}}, {{term|ajáád|lang=nv||someone’s leg}}, {{term|ajááʼ|lang=nv||someone’s ear}}, {{term|akʼéí|lang=nv||someone’s kin}}. The alternative is to use the prefix {{term|bi-|lang=nv||his/her/its/their}} to make these dictionary forms.

====See also====
*{{l|nv|shi-}}
*{{l|nv|ni-}}
*{{l|nv|bi-}}
*{{l|nv|yi-}}
*{{l|nv|ha-}}
*{{l|nv|á-}}
*{{l|nv|nihi-}}
*{{l|nv|ał-}}
*{{l|nv|ahił-}}

[[Category:Navajo pronouns]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From an earlier form {{term|ar-|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem|ang}}. Cognate with {{etyl|goh|-}} ''[[ar-]]'', ''[[ir-]]'' ({{etyl|de|-}} {{term|er-|lang=de}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɑː/|lang=ang}}

===Prefix===
{{infl|ang|prefix|head=ā-|cat=prefixes}}

# forming words with the sense ''from'', ''away'', ''off'', ''out'', e.g. [[animan|āniman]]

[[ca:a-]]
[[cs:a-]]
[[da:a-]]
[[de:a-]]
[[et:a-]]
[[es:a-]]
[[fr:a-]]
[[gl:a-]]
[[it:a-]]
[[ku:a-]]
[[lt:a-]]
[[li:a-]]
[[hu:a-]]
[[nl:a-]]
[[no:a-]]
[[pt:a-]]
[[sv:a-]]
[[tl:a-]]
[[tr:a-]]
[[uk:a-]]
[[vo:a-]]
[[wa:a-]]