{{also|Appendix:Variations of "aa"|Appendix:ISO 639-1 language codes}}
==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[a'a]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|haw|en}} {{term|ʻaʻā|lang=haw}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ä'ä}}, {{IPA|/ˈɑːɑː/}}, {{SAMPA|/"A:A:/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A form of [[lava]] flow associated with Hawaiian-type volcanoes, consisting of [[basaltic]] [[rock]], usually dark-colored with a [[jagged]] and loose, [[clinkery]] surface. Compare ''[[pahoehoe]]''.
#* '''1859''' - R. C. Haskell in ''American journal of science and arts'', series XXVIII
#*: We...saw ‘pahoihoi’ or solid lava forming, and also ‘'''aa'''’ or clinkers.
#* '''1883''' - Clarence E. Dutton in the fourth ''Annual report'' of the United States Geological Survey
#*: The second form of the lavas is called by the natives '''a-a''', and its contrast with pahoehoe is about the greatest imaginable. It consists mainly of clinkers sometimes detached, sometimes partially agglutinated together with a bristling array of sharp, jagged, angular fragments.
#* '''1944''' - Charles A. Cotton: ''Volcanoes as landscape forms''
#*: Cooling and solidification frequently takes a different course...in lava flows, producing the clinker-like ‘'''aa'''’ lava.
#* '''1999''' - A. Ganeri: ''Violent Volcanoes''
#*: '''A'a''' is thick, sticky lava which forms jagged, chunky rock when it cools.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a form of lava flow associated with Hawaiian-type volcanoes}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|aa-laava}}
* Hawaiian: {{tø|haw|ʻaʻā|xs=Hawaiian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|apalhraun|n}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|aa|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English palindromes]]
[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Acholi==

===Verb===
{{infl|ach|verb}}

# [[come]]

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|Aa (waternaam)|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} *''ā'', from {{proto|Germanic|ahwō|lang=nl}}. Cognate with Old English {{term|lang=ang|ea|ēa}}, Old High German ''[[aha]]'' (German ''[[Ache]]''), Old Norse ''[[á]]'' (Swedish ''[[å]]'').

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=f|aa's|aatje}}

# {{obsolete|lang=nl}} a [[stream]] or [[water]]

----

==Estonian==

===Interjection===
{{infl|et|interjection}}

# An interjection expressing recognition -
#: ''<!-- -->'''Aa''', see oled sina.'' : ''<!-- -->'''Oh''', it's you.''
# An interjection expressing understanding -
#: ''<!-- -->'''Aa''', saan aru.'' : ''<!-- -->'''Ah''', I understand.''

[[Category:Estonian palindromes]]

----

==Filipino==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/a.ˈaʔ/|lang=fil}}

===Noun===
{{infl|fil|noun}}

# [[dirt]], [[filth]], [[feces]] or any dirty thing

====Usage notes====
* This word is used when speaking to small children about anything dirty and also used by the children themselves.

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{infl|fi|noun}}

# The letter '''[[A]]''', '''[[a]]'''.

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-voi|a|a}}

[[Category:Finnish palindromes]]
[[Category:Finnish two-letter words]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|haw|fr}} {{term|ʻaʻā|lang=haw}}.

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{geology|often|attributive|lang=fr}} The [[surface]] of an aa [[lava]] flow.

[[Category:French palindromes]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Letter===
'''aa'''

# {{form of|obsolete form|[[å]]}}

[[Category:no:Obsolete]]

----

==Pennsylvania German==

===Adverb===
{{infl|pdc|adverb}}

# [[also]]
#* {{quote-book|year=1908|author=Astor C. Wuchter|title=A Pennsylvania German Anthology|editor=Earl C. Haag|chapter=Die Mudderschprooch|page=56|pageurl=http://books.google.com/books?id=UAuw2OmZBUMC&pg=PA56
|passage={{...|Datt wu die Palme duffdich sin, Wu's immer Summer iss;}} Datt sin '''aa''' Mensche, graad wie do{{...|, Mei Hatz un Seel, gewiss.}} |translation=There are people there '''too''', just like here}}

===Preposition===
{{infl|pdc|preposition}}

# [[on]]

----

==Scots==

===Alternative forms===
* [[aw]]

===Determiner===
{{sco-det}}

# [[all]]

===Noun===
{{sco-noun|-}}

# [[all]]

----

==Tagalog==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/a.ˈaʔ/|lang=tl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|tl|noun}} (aâ)

# [[dirt]], [[filth]], [[feces]] or any dirty thing

====Usage notes====
* This word is used when speaking to small children about anything dirty and also used by the children themselves.

[[cs:aa]]
[[de:aa]]
[[et:aa]]
[[el:aa]]
[[fr:aa]]
[[gl:aa]]
[[id:aa]]
[[lt:aa]]
[[no:aa]]
[[km:aa]]
[[pt:aa]]
[[ru:aa]]
[[st:aa]]
[[fi:aa]]
[[sv:aa]]
[[tl:aa]]