{{also|Appendix:Variations of "aa"}}
==Translingual==
{{wikipedia}}

===Symbol===
{{head|mul|symbol}}

# A standard size of dry cell battery between [[AAA]] and [[C]].

----

==English==

==={{initialism}}===
'''AA'''

# {{poker}} A starting hand in [[Texas hold 'em]] comprised of two [[ace]]s
# achievement age
# acting appointment
# administrative assistant
# [[affirmative action]]
# [[w:African-American|African American]]
# {{India}} [[w:Airports Authority of India|Airports Authority of India]]
# [[w:Alcoholics Anonymous|Alcoholics Anonymous]]
# [[w:Alzheimer's Association|Alzheimer's Association]]
# [[w:American Airlines|American Airlines]]
# {{chemistry}} [[amino acid]]
# {{w|Ann Arbor Railroad}}
# [[w:Anti-aircraft warfare|Anti-aircraft]]
# approximate absolute
# Armed Forces in the Americas ([[USPS]] abbreviation code)
#* {{quote-news|title=Shipping to soldiers for the holidays|work=Stuttgart (Arkansas) Daily Leader|author=Bill Shrum|date=October 29|year=2010‎}}
#*: •   APO/FPO AE ZIPs 094-098 — Space Available Mail, Nov. 26; Parcel Airlift Mail, Dec. 3; Priority Mail, Dec. 10; First Class Mail Letters and Cards, Dec.10 and Express Mail Military Service, Dec. 18.
#*: •   APO/FPO '''AA''' ZIP 340 — Space Available Mail, Nov. 26; Parcel Airlift Mail, Dec. 3; Priority Mail, Dec. 10; First Class Mail Letters and Cards, Dec. 10 and Express Mail Military Service, Dec. 18.
#*: •   APO/FPO AP ZIPs 962-966 — Space Available Mail, Nov. 26; Parcel Airlift Mail, Dec. 3; Priority Mail, Dec. 10; First Class Mail Letters and Cards, Dec. 10 and Express Mail Military Service, Dec. 18.
# {{military}} assembly area
# [[associate of arts|Associate of arts]]; associate in arts
# Astrum Argenteum (also A.A. or A.'.A.'.), Esoteric Magickal order or Silver star, a magickal order.
# athletic association
# author's alteration
# {{British}} [[w:The Automobile Association|The Automobile Association]]
# {{military}} avenue of approach

====Translations====

{{trans-top|Alcoholics Anonymous}}
* French: {{t-|fr|AA|m|p}},  {{t-|fr|Alcooliques Anonymes|m|p}}
* German: {{t+|de|AA|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|AA|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|American Airlines}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Esoteric Magickal order Astrum Argenteum, or Silver star, a magickal order}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Antiaircraft}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|PL}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|IT}}, {{t+|fi|it}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Alzheimer's Association}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Armed Forces Americas}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Affirmative Action}}
* French: {{t+|fr|discrimination positive|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|African-American}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Automobile Association}} (Australia) [[AANT]], [[NRMA]], [[RAA]], [[RACQ]], [[RACT]], [[RACV]], [[RACWA]]

----

==French==

==={{initialism|lang=fr}}===
'''AA''' {{m|p}}

# {{plurale tantum|lang=fr}} [[Alcooliques Anonymes]]

----

==Turkish==

===Initialism===
{{tr-initialism}}

# {{initialism of|Anadolu Ajansı|lang=tr|nodot=1}} {{gloss|Anadolu Agency}}.
# {{initialism of|Adsız Alkolikler|lang=tr|nodot=1}} {{gloss|Alcoholics Anonymous}}.

[[af:AA]]
[[ar:AA]]
[[cs:AA]]
[[de:AA]]
[[et:AA]]
[[es:AA]]
[[gl:AA]]
[[it:AA]]
[[he:AA]]
[[hu:AA]]
[[nl:AA]]
[[km:AA]]
[[pl:AA]]
[[pt:AA]]
[[ru:AA]]
[[sk:AA]]
[[tr:AA]]
[[zh:AA]]