==English==

===Etymology===
First attested in 1303. From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|abaisen|lang=enm}}, {{term|abaishen}}, {{term|abashen||to gape with surprise|lang=enm}} etc., from {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|abaiss|abaïss|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|abair|lang=frm}}, {{term|abaisser|abaïsser|to astonish, alter|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|esbaïr|lang=fro}}, {{term|ébahir|lang=fro}}, from {{term|es||utterly|lang=fro}} + {{term|bair||to [[astonish]]|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|ex-||out of|lang=la}} + {{term|baer||to gape|lang=la}}, from {{term|batāre||to yawn, gape|lang=la}}.<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=2}}</ref><ref name=WI3>{{R:MW3 1976|page=2}}</ref><ref name=OXF>{{R:OCD2|page=2}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/əˈbæʃ/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/əˈbæʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-abash.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

* {{rhymes|æʃ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|abash|es}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To make [[ashamed]]; to [[embarrass]]; to [[destroy]] the [[self-possession]] of, as by exciting suddenly a [[consciousness]] of [[guilt]], [[mistake]], or [[inferiority]]; to [[disconcert]]; to [[discomfit]]. {{defdate|First attested from around (1150 to 1350).}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: "''He was a man whom no check could '''abash'''''." – [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]].
# {{context|intransitive|obsolete|lang=en}} To lose self-possession; to become ashamed. {{defdate|Attested from around (1350 to 1470) until the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>

====Usage notes====
* Of abash, [[confuse]], [[confound]]: '''Abash''' is a [[stronger]] word than '''confuse''', but not so strong as '''confound'''.
** We are ''abashed'' when struck either with sudden shame or with a [[humbling]] sense of inferiority; as, [[Peter]] was ''abashed'' by the look of his Master. So a [[modest]] youth is ''abashed'' in the presence of those who are greatly his superiors.
** We are ''confused'' when, from some [[unexpected]] or [[startling]] [[occurrence]], we lose [[clearness]] of thought and self-possession. Thus, a witness is often ''confused'' by a severe [[cross-]]examination; a [[timid]] person is apt to be ''confused'' in [[entering]] a room full of [[strangers]].
** We are ''confounded'' when our minds are [[overwhelmed]], as it were, by something wholly unexpected, [[amazing]], dreadful, etc., so that we have nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually ''confounded'' at the [[discovery]] of his guilt.
*::* Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. – John Milton

====Synonyms====
{{checksense}}
* [[confuse]]
* [[confound]]
* [[disconcert]]
* [[shame]]
* [[humiliate]]
* [[embarrass]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:abash]]

====Antonyms====
* [[embolden]]
* [[reassure]]

====Derived terms====
* [[abashed]]
* [[abashedly]]
* [[abashedness]]
* [[abashless]]
* [[abashment]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make ashamed, to embarrass}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|засрамвам}}, {{t+|bg|смущавам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zahanbit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beschamen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saattaa häpeilemään}}, {{t|fi|saattaa hämille}}
* French: {{t+|fr|confondre}}
* German: {{t+|de|beschämen}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|confunder}}
* Japanese: [[狼狽]]させる(ろうばいさせる, roubaisaseru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: [[звунува]] (zbunuva)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|gjøre skamfull}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|envergonhar}}, {{t+|pt|confundir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смущать|impf|tr=smuščát’}}, {{t+|ru|конфузить|impf|tr=konfúžit’|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|приводить в замешательство|impf|tr=privodít’ v zamešátel’stvo|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|confundir}}, {{t+|es|avergonzar}}, {{t+|es|abochornar}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|utandırmak}}, {{t+|tr|mahcup etmek}}
* Vietnamese: [[làm]] [[bối rối]], làm [[lúng túng]], làm [[luống cuống]], làm [[ngượng nghịu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: to lose self-possession; to become ashamed}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смутиться|pf|tr=smutít’sja|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|сконфузиться|pf|tr=skonfúžit’sja|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|прийти в замешательство|pf|tr=prijtí v zamešátel’stvo|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Sabah#English|Sabah]]
* [[sabha#English|sabha]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Emotions]]

[[am:abash]]
[[ar:abash]]
[[de:abash]]
[[et:abash]]
[[es:abash]]
[[fa:abash]]
[[fr:abash]]
[[ko:abash]]
[[hy:abash]]
[[it:abash]]
[[kn:abash]]
[[ka:abash]]
[[ku:abash]]
[[li:abash]]
[[hu:abash]]
[[mg:abash]]
[[ml:abash]]
[[my:abash]]
[[fj:abash]]
[[nl:abash]]
[[ps:abash]]
[[pl:abash]]
[[pt:abash]]
[[ro:abash]]
[[ru:abash]]
[[fi:abash]]
[[sv:abash]]
[[ta:abash]]
[[te:abash]]
[[th:abash]]
[[tr:abash]]
[[uk:abash]]
[[vi:abash]]
[[vo:abash]]
[[zh:abash]]