==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|abaishment}}, from {{der|en|frm|abaissement||astonishment}} alteration of {{m|frm|esbaissement}}, from {{m|frm|esbaiss}} + {{m|frm|-ment}}.<ref>{{R:MW3 1976|page=2}}</ref> Compare French {{m|fr|ébahissement}}. Equivalent to {{suffix|en|abash|ment}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/əˈbæʃ.mənt/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|en|/əˈbæʃ.mənt/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The state of being [[abashed]]; embarrassment from [[shame]]. {{defdate|First attested from 1350 to 1470.}}<ref>{{R:SOED5|page=2}}</ref>
#* '''1540''', {{w|Myles Coverdale}} (translator), ''{{w|Great Bible|The Byble in Englyshe}},'' London: Thomas Berthelet, {{w|Deuteronomy}} 28[.28]<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A10405.0001.001]</sup>
#*: And the lorde shall smyte the with madnesse, and blyndnesse & '''abashment''' of herte.
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}},'' London: William Ponsonbie, Book{{nbsp}}3, Canto{{nbsp}}8, p.{{nbsp}}521,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A12777.0001.001]</sup>
#*: For her faint hart was with the frosen cold
#*: Benumbd so inly, that her wits nigh fayld,
#*: And all her sences with '''abashment''' quite were quayld.
#* '''1768''', {{w|Henry Brooke (writer)|Henry Brooke}}, ''{{w|The Fool of Quality}},'' Dublin: for the author, Volume{{nbsp}}3, Chapter{{nbsp}}13, pp.{{nbsp}}35-36,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004836069.0001.003]</sup>
#*: On my appearing her Spirits again took the Alarm. She scarce ventured a Glance toward me. I was greatly pained by the '''Abashment''' under which I saw she laboured, and I hastened to relieve myself as well as her from the Distress.
#* '''1940''', {{w|Richard Wright (author)|Richard Wright}}, ''{{w|Native Son}},'' London: Jonathan Cape, 1970, Book{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}185,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.499539/page/n221]</sup>
#*: “Did he say he would let you meet some white women if you joined the reds?”
#*: He knew that sex relations between blacks and whites were repulsive to most white men.
#*: “Nawsuh,” he said, simulating '''abashment'''.
#* '''2014''', {{w|Don Gutteridge (writer)|Don Gutteridge}}, ''Death of a Patriot,'' New York: Simon & Schuster, Chapter{{nbsp}}8, p.{{nbsp}}104,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/deathofpatriotma0000gutt]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Marc, who well knew the pangs and '''abashments''' of romantic love, recognized the emotions here as genuine and heartfelt and was encouraged.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the state of being abashed; confusion from shame}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|засраменост|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|смущение|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verlegenheid|f}}, {{t|nl|moeilijk parket}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|häpeä}}, {{t+|fi|hämminki}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|nearey|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zmieszanie|n}}, {{t+|pl|zakłopotanie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|confusão}}, {{t+|pt|vergonha}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|jenă|f}}, {{t+|ro|rușine|f}}, {{t+|ro|rușinare|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|расте́рянность|f}}, {{t+|ru|смуще́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|замеша́тельство|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>