{{wikisource1911Enc|Abated}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/əˈbeɪt/}}
** {{SAMPA|/@"beIt/}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪt|-eɪt]]

===Etymology 1===
From Old French ''[[abatre]]'' "to beat down", from Late Latin ''[[abatere]]'', formed from ''[[ab-]]'' or ''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[battere]]'', from Latin ''[[battuere]]'' "to beat".
* [[cognate|Cognate]]s: French ''[[abattre]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|abat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[bring down]] or [[reduce]] to a lower state, number, degree or estimation; to [[lessen]]; to [[diminish]]; to [[contract]]; to [[moderate]]; to [[cut short]].
#: ''Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.''
#* '''1605''': She hath abated me of half my train — William Shakespeare, ''King Lear'', II.ii
#* '''1611''': His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. — ''Deuteronomy'' 34:7
#* To abate the edge of envy. - Francis Bacon
# {{transitive}} To bring down (a person) physically or mentally; to [[humble]]; to [[depress]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[decrease]], or become less in strength or violence; to experience a [[diminution]] of force or of [[intensity]].
#: ''The pain abates.''
#: ''The storm abated.''
#* The fury of Glengarry ... rapidly abated. - Thomas Macaulay
# {{transitive}} To [[deduct]]; to [[omit]]; as, to abate some amount from a price or count.
#* Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. - Fuller
# {{transitive}} To [[bar]]; to [[except]].
# {{transitive}} {{context|label=[[Appendix:Glossary#obsolete|obsolete]] except in law|topcat=Obsolete|topcat=Law}} To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; to [[destroy]]; to [[level]] with the ground.
#: ''To abate a nuisance.''
#: ''To abate a writ.''
#* The King of Scots ... sore abated the walls. - Edward Hall
# {{intransitive}} To be defeated or come to [[naught]]; to fall through; to fail.
#: ''The writ has abated.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[subside]]
* [[decrease]]
* [[intermit]]
* [[decline]]
* [[diminish]]
* [[lessen]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[abatable]]
* [[abater]]
* [[unabated]]
* [[abate of]]
* [[abate a tax]]
* [[abate into a freehold]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[abatement]]
* [[abator]]
* [[abattoir]]
* [[Abatis]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bring down a person physically or mentally}}
* German: [[nachlassen]], zurückgehen
* Norwegian: [[slå ned]] (physically), [[ydmyke]] (mentally)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[abater]] (physically), [[humilhar]], [[deprimir]] (mentally)
* Vietnamese: [[làm]] [[nhụt]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bring down or reduce to a lower state}}
* Finnish: [[vähentää]]
* German: [[verringern]], [[mindern]]
* Norwegian: [[forringe]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[Reduzir]], [[suprimir]]
* Vietnamese: [[làm]] [[dịu]] [[đi]], làm [[yếu]] đi, (làm) [[giảm bớt]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to decrease or become less}}
* Finnish: [[heiketä]], [[tyyntyä]], [[vähetä]]
* German: [[nachlassen]], sich [[legen]] ''(storm)''
* Norwegian: [[forminske]], [[avta]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[diminuir]], [[descer]], [[declinar]]
* Russian: [[уменьшаться]]
* Vietnamese: [[dịu]] [[đi]], [[yếu]] đi, [[nhụt]] đi, [[ram]], [[đỡ]], [[bớt]], [[ngớt]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to beat down}}
* Dutch: [[neerslaan]]
* Finnish: [[heiketä]], [[vähetä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[slå ned]]
* Portuguese: [[abater]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to deduct}}
* Portuguese: [[deduzir]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Vietnamese: [[hạ]], [[bớt]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bar, to except}}
* Portuguese: [[excluir]], [[barrar]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to blunt}}
* Portuguese: [[embotar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Vietnamese: [[làm]] [[cùn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reduce in estimation}}
* Portuguese: [[deprivar]], [[desprover]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bring entirely down or put an end to}}
* German: [[einstellen]]
* Portuguese: [[cessar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Vietnamese: [[thanh toán]], [[làm]] [[mất hết]], [[huỷ bỏ]], [[hủy bỏ]], [[thủ tiêu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to diminish, to reduce}}
* Finnish: [[vähentää]], [[alentaa]]
* Norwegian: [[forminske]], [[redusere]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[reduzir]], [[diminuir]], [[cortar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be defeated}}
* Portuguese: [[derrotar]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[събарям]] (1), [[понижавам]] (2), [[намалявам]] (2,7),[[притъпявам]] (4), [[прекратявам]] (6)
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[стихвам]] (1), [[утихвам]] (1), [[провалям се]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Irish}}: [[laghdaigh]], [[laghdú]]
* {{ttbc|Irish}}: [[laghdaigh]]
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[azaltmak]] (1)

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} [[abatement]]. - Sir T. Browne

===Etymology 2===
From Italian ''[[#Italian|abate]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An Italian [[abbot]].

====Shorthand====

* Gregg (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): a - b - a - t

----

==Italian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|It-abate.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{it-noun|abat|m|e|i}}

# [[abbot]]

====Related terms====
* [[abbazia]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

----

==Novial==

===Noun===
'''abate'''

# [[abbot]] or [[abbess]]

====Related terms====
* [[abato]]
* [[abata]]
* [[abatia]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
from Italian ''[[abate]]''

===Noun===
'''abate''' {{m}}, pl. ''[[abaţi]]''

# [[abbot]].

[[Category:Romanian nouns]]

[[am:abate]]
[[ar:abate]]
[[de:abate]]
[[el:abate]]
[[es:abate]]
[[fa:abate]]
[[fr:abate]]
[[hy:abate]]
[[io:abate]]
[[it:abate]]
[[li:abate]]
[[hu:abate]]
[[pl:abate]]
[[pt:abate]]
[[ru:abate]]
[[fi:abate]]
[[sv:abate]]
[[ta:abate]]
[[te:abate]]
[[vi:abate]]
[[th:abate]]
[[tr:abate]]
[[uk:abate]]
[[vo:abate]]
[[zh:abate]]