{{also|abc|Abc|A.B.C.}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|noun}} {{l|en|absey}}

===Initialism===
{{rfc-header|Initialism}}
{{head|en|initialism}}

# {{lb|en|business|_|management}} [[w:Activity-based costing|activity-based costing]].
# African Basketball Confederation.
# {{lb|en|emergency medicine}} [[airway|Airway]], [[breathing]], and [[circulation]].
# Alcoholic beverage control.
# {{lb|en|aviation}} {{w|Advance Booking Charter}}
# [[already]] [[been]] [[chew]]ed, as in chewing gum.
# American Book Center.
# [[w:American-born Chinese|American-born Chinese]].
# [[wikipedia:American_Broadcasting_Company|American Broadcasting Company]]: [[United States|U.S.]] [[television]] and [[radio]] [[network]].
# {{lb|en|medical}} Antigen binding capacity.
# {{lb|en|medical}} [[activated B-cell-like]]
# [[anything]] [[but]] [[Chardonnay]]: a backlash against Chardonnay wine, seen as ubiquitous.
# {{lb|en|Japan}} Asahi Broadcasting Corporation.
# Atlanta, Birmingham & Coast Railroad.
# atomic, biological, and chemical.
# Aural brevity code.
# {{lb|en|US}} [[American]]-[[born]] [[Chinese]]
# Australian-born Chinese.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Australian Broadcasting Commission. {{defdate|1932}}.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[w:Australian Broadcasting Company|Australian Broadcasting Company]]. {{defdate|1929}}
# [[wikipedia:Australian_Broadcasting_Corporation|Australian Broadcasting Corporation]]. {{defdate|From July 1983}}
# {{lb|en|geography}} Santo André, São Bernardo do Campo and São Caetano do Sul, satellite cities around the city of São Paulo that form the most important industrial area in Brazil.

====See also====
* {{l|en|ABC Islands}}
* {{sense|atomic, biological, chemical}} {{l|en|NBC}}
* {{sense|American-born Chinese}} {{l|en|CBC}}
* {{sense|American Broadcasting Company}} {{l|en|NBC}}, {{l|en|CBS}}, {{l|en|PBS}}, {{l|en|NPR}}

===Etymology===
The first three letters of the Latin alphabet, standing for the whole alphabet

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA letters|A|B|C|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-ABC.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|ABCs|ABC's}}

# {{lb|en|US|usually|plural only|uncountable}} The [[alphabet]]. {{defdate|First attested from around (1150 to 1350).}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=3}}</ref>
#: ''Do you know your '''ABC'''?'' (U.S.: ''Do you know your '''ABC'''s?'')
# {{lb|en|obsolete|poetry}} A type of poem in which the lines start with the letters of the alphabet in order. {{defdate|Attested from around (1350 to 1470) until the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[primer]] for teaching the [[Latin alphabet]] and first elements of reading. {{defdate|Attested from around (1350 to 1470) until the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# The [[fundamental]]s of any subject. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''the '''ABC''' of finance''
# {{lb|en|poker}} A [[straightforward]], [[uniform]] playing [[style]], often focusing on betting for [[value]], [[fold]]ing weak hands, and avoiding [[bluffing]].
# {{lb|en|UK|rail transport}} A British alphabetized guidebook for trains and their stations.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|alphabet}} {{l|en|absey}}, {{l|en|alphabet}}
* {{sense|rudiments}} {{l|en|basic}}s, [[fundamental]]s

====Translations====
{{trans-see|alphabet}}

{{trans-top|primer for learning the alphabet}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|abetare}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aapinen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abc-Buch|n}}, {{t+|de|ABC-Buch|n}}, {{t+|de|Abecebuch|n}}, {{t+|de|Abecedarium|n}}, {{t+|de|Abcdarium|n}}, {{t|de|Buchstabierbuch|n}}, {{t|de|Lese-Lern-Buch|n}}, {{t|de|Lern-Lese-Buch|n}}, {{t|de|ABC-Fibel|f}}, {{t+|de|Fibel|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|а́збука|f}}, {{t+|ru|буква́рь|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abc-bok|c}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|lafababuk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rudiments}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ABC|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aakkoset|p}}, {{t+|fi|alkeet|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|b.a.-ba|m}} ''invariable''
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אָלֶף בֵּית|m|tr=álef bet}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|aibítir|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|いろは|tr=iroha}}
* Latin: {{t|la|abecedaria|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|abc|m}}, {{t+|pt|abecê|m}}, {{t+|pt|á-bê-cê|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|а́збука|f}}, {{t+|ru|азы́|m-p}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abc|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|ABC book}}<!-- a primer. Shakespeare, ''King John, I-i'', as an "absey" book-->
* [[ABC guide]]

====See also====
Naming an alphabet after the initial letters is common; compare:
* {{l|en|alphabet}}
* {{l|en|bopomofo}}
* {{l|en|futhark}}
* {{l|en|futhorc}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{initialism of|[[already]] [[been]] [[chew]]ed|lang=en}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|-bac-|B. C. A.|B.C.A.|BAC|BCA|CAB|CBA|bac|cab}}

[[Category:English three-letter abbreviations]]
[[Category:en:Computer languages]]

----

==Catalan==

===Proper noun===
{{ca-proper noun|f}}

# [[w:ca:Associació Bíblica de Catalunya|Associació Bíblica de Catalunya]], a Catalonian bible club

----

==Danish==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|da|abc}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/abeseː/|[æb̥eˈseːˀ]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|stem=ABC'|en|er}}

# {{l|en|ABC}} {{gloss|a primer for teaching the Latin alphabet and first elements of reading; the rudiments of any subject}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=ABC'|en|er|4=ABC's}}

====Further reading====
* {{pedialite|lang=da}}
* {{pedialite|ABC (bog)|lang=da}}

----

==German==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|de|Abc}}

===Noun===
{{head|de|noun|g=n|genitive|ABC}}

# {{l|en|ABC}}, [[alphabet]]
#* '''1868''', Friedrich Schmitt, ''Neues System zur Erlernung der deutschen Aussprache nebst neuer Eintheilung des ABC'', München, book title:
#*: Neues System zur Erlernung der deutschen Aussprache nebst neuer Eintheilung des '''ABC'''

====Derived terms====
* {{l|de|ABC-Schütze}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{alternative form of|á-bê-cê|lang=pt}}