{{also|Abecedarian}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|abecedary}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{m|la|abecedarius}} (from the first four letters of the Latin alphabet + {{m|la|-arius}}). Equivalent to {{suffix|abecedary|an|lang=en}}. Compare {{m|en|abecedary}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/eɪ.biː.siːˈdɛː.ɹɪ.ən/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌeɪ.biˌsiˈdɛ.ɹi.ən/|/ˌeɪ.biˌsiˈdæɹ.i.ən/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
{{examples-right|sense=rhetoric|examples=He knew the rhetorical devices, from abecedarian, battologia, and contentio, all the way to zeugma.}}
# Someone who is learning the alphabet. {{defdate|Early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=3}}</ref>
# An [[elementary]] student, a [[novice]]; one in the early steps of learning. {{defdate|Early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.28:
#*: A man may alwaies continue his studie, but not schooling. O fond-foolish for an old man to be ever an '''''Abcedarian''''' {{transterm|abecedaire|lang=frm}}.
# {{label|en|archaic}} Someone engaged in [[teaching]] the alphabet; an elementary teacher; one that teaches the methods and principles of learning.<ref>{{R:MW3 1976|page=2}}</ref> {{defdate|Early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{label|en|rhetoric}} A work which uses words or lines in alphabetical order.
#* '''1996''', in ''Mediaevalia'' (published by the Center for Medieval and Early Renaissance Studies of the State University of New York at Binghamton), vol.19, p.133:
#*: This formal organization is most likely to create obscurity in such elaborate and artificial forms as: palindromes (words, phrases, or verses which read the same backward or forward), abecedarians (poems in which the initial letters of lines or stanzas are arranged to{{nb...}}){{nb...}}.
#* '''2007''', ''A Descriptive Catalogue of the Music Collection of the National Library'' (ISBN 0754651681), p.590:
#*: Abecedarian verses are chanted stichoi/stichera verses in which the first letter of each verse follows an alphabetical order.{{...}}The Amomos, an '''abecedarian''', is the longest psalm in the Psalter{{nb...}}.
#* '''2008''', Erich J. Goller, ''Groovy'', p.165:
#*: An '''Abecedarian''' is any poem constrained by alphabetical order.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:beginner]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{label|en|now|_|rare}} Pertaining to someone learning the alphabet or basic studies; [[elementary]]; [[rudimentary]]. {{defdate|Mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# Pertaining to the alphabet, or several alphabets. {{defdate|Mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1971''', {{w|Brian Lumley}}, ‘Rising with Surtsey’:
#*: The professor [...] had several other translations or feats of antiquarian deciphering to his credit. Indeed, I was extremely fortunate to find him in at the museum, for he planned to fly within the week to Peru where yet another task awaited his '''abecedarian''' talents.
# Arranged in an [[alphabetical]] manner. {{defdate|Mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# Relating to or resembling an [[abecedarius]].

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|abecedarian insult}}
* {{l|en|abecedarian psalms}}
{{der-mid}}
{{der-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[fa:abecedarian]]
[[fr:abecedarian]]
[[ko:abecedarian]]
[[hy:abecedarian]]
[[it:abecedarian]]
[[ka:abecedarian]]
[[ku:abecedarian]]
[[hu:abecedarian]]
[[ml:abecedarian]]
[[my:abecedarian]]
[[nl:abecedarian]]
[[ja:abecedarian]]
[[ps:abecedarian]]
[[pl:abecedarian]]
[[ru:abecedarian]]
[[simple:abecedarian]]
[[fi:abecedarian]]
[[ta:abecedarian]]
[[uk:abecedarian]]
[[vi:abecedarian]]
[[zh:abecedarian]]