==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1594. 
* From {{etyl|la}} {{term|aberratio|aberrātiō|relief, diversion|lang=la}} <ref>[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/aberration Aberration at Dictionary.com]</ref>, from {{term|aberro|aberrō|wander away, go astray|lang=la}}, from {{term|ab||away|lang=la}} + {{term|erro|errō|wander|lang=la}}<ref>{{reference-book | last = Dobbie | first = Elliott K. | coauthors = Dunmore, C. William, et al. | editor = Barnhart, Robert K.| title = Chambers Dictionary of Etymology | origyear = 1998 | year = 2004 | publisher = Chambers Harrap Publishers Ltd | location = Edinburgh, Scotland | isbn =0550142304 | pages = 2}}</ref>.
* Compare French {{term|aberration|lang=fr}}. 
* See [[aberrate]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌæb.əˈreɪ.ʃn̩/}}
* {{audio|en-us-aberration.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of wandering; [[deviation]], especially from truth or moral [[rectitude]], from the natural state, or from a type.
#:* The '''aberration''' of youth
#:* '''Aberrations''' from theory
# A partial [[alienation]] of reason.
#:* Occasional '''aberrations''' of intellect - Lingard
#:* Whims, which at first are the '''aberrations''' of a single brain, pass with heat into epidemic form - I. Taylor
# A [[mental]] [[disorder]], especially one of a minor or temporary character.
# {{astronomy}} A small [[periodical]] change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the [[observer]].
# {{optics}} The [[convergence]] to different [[focus|foci]], by a lens or mirror, of rays of light [[emanating]] from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus.
# {{optics}} The producing of an [[unintended]] effect by the [[glancing]] of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.
# {{physiology}} A [[deviation]] of an organism from the state which is regarded as normal.
# {{context|zoology|botany}} Atypical development or structure.

====Derived terms====
* [[spherical aberration]]
* [[aberrational]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|deviation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отклоняване|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|отклонение|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|poikkeama}}, {{t-|fi|poikkeavuus}}, {{t-|fi|eksyminen}}, {{t+|fi|hairahdus}}, {{t-|fi|harhautuminen}}, {{t-|fi|säännöttömyys}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tévelygés}}, {{t-|hu|tévút}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|seachrán|m|xs=Irish}}, {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|aberrazione|f}}, {{t+|it|deviazione|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aberración|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sapma}},  {{t+|tr|sapkınlık}}
* Vietnamese: ([[sự]]) [[lầm lạc]], [[phút]] lầm lạc
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|partial alienation of reason}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ajatusvirhe}}, {{t+|fi|erehdys}}, {{t-|fi|harhapolku}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|aberráció}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|seachrán|m|xs=Irish}}, {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|alienazione|f}}
* Vietnamese: [[sự]] [[kém]] [[trí khôn]], sự [[loạn trí]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|minor or temporary mental disorder}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|умопомрачение|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|poikkeama}}, {{t+|fi|aberraatio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}, {{t+|de|Abweichung|f}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|saobhadh|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|astronomy: small periodical change of position of heavenly bodies}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|аберация|f|tr=aberátsiya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aberraatio}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|aberrazione|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aberración|f}}
* Vietnamese: [[tính sai]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|optics: convergence to different foci}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|аберация|f|tr=aberátsiya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|poikkeama}}, {{t+|fi|aberraatio}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|aberrazione|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aberración|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|quang sai|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|optics: producing of an unintended effect by the glancing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heijastus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|physiology: deviation from the normal state}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|аберация|f|tr=aberátsiya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|poikkeama}}, {{t+|fi|aberraatio}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|aberrazione|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aberração|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aberración|f}}, {{t-|es|perturbación mental|f}}
* Vietnamese: ([[sự]]) [[khác thường]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|zoology, botany: atypical development or structure}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|аберация|f|tr=aberátsiya|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|harhamuunnos}}, {{t+|fi|aberraatio}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aberration|f}}, {{t+|de|Abweichung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|iomrall|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|aberrazione|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aberración|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[aberration]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[aberration]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: [[avvik]] {{n}}, [[villfarelse]] {{c}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[aberração]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[aberración]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-aberration.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# Something, such as an [[idea]] or [[fact]], that is aberrant; an [[#English|aberration]].
# The state of being [[aberrant]].
# {{astronomy|lang=fr}} An aberration.
# {{optics|lang=fr}} An aberration.
# {{physiology|lang=fr}} An aberration or [[mutation]].

===Anagrams===
* [[abornerait#French|abornerait]]
* [[arboraient#French|arboraient]]

[[am:aberration]]
[[ar:aberration]]
[[be:aberration]]
[[de:aberration]]
[[et:aberration]]
[[el:aberration]]
[[es:aberration]]
[[eo:aberration]]
[[fa:aberration]]
[[fr:aberration]]
[[ko:aberration]]
[[hi:aberration]]
[[io:aberration]]
[[id:aberration]]
[[it:aberration]]
[[kn:aberration]]
[[ka:aberration]]
[[lt:aberration]]
[[li:aberration]]
[[hu:aberration]]
[[mg:aberration]]
[[my:aberration]]
[[ja:aberration]]
[[ps:aberration]]
[[pl:aberration]]
[[pt:aberration]]
[[ru:aberration]]
[[fi:aberration]]
[[sv:aberration]]
[[ta:aberration]]
[[te:aberration]]
[[th:aberration]]
[[tr:aberration]]
[[uk:aberration]]
[[vi:aberration]]
[[vo:aberration]]
[[zh:aberration]]