==English==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|en|la|aberrātus}}, perfect passive participle of {{m|la|aberrō||wander, stray or deviate from}}, formed from {{m|la|ab||from, away from}} + {{m|la|errō||stray}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈæb.ə.ɹeɪt/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|aberrat}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To go [[astray]]; to [[diverge]]; to [[deviate]] (from); deviate from. {{defdate|mid 18th century}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=4}}</ref>
#* '''1765''', {{w|Peter Dollond}}, letter to {{w|James Short (mathematician)|James Short}} dated 7 February, 1765, in ''{{w|Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society}}'', Volume 55, London, 1766, p. 55,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/009654803]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the surfaces of the concave lens may be so proportioned as to '''aberrate''' exactly equal to the convex lens, near the axis {{...}}
#* '''1812''', {{w|John Brady (author)|John Brady}}, ''Clavis Calendaria'', London, for the author, Volume I, p. 229,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/006745708]</sup>
#*: Such, indeed, were the primitive regulations of the greater number of monastic institutions; but the abominable and luxurious indulgences into which they afterwards '''aberrated''', the page of history amply unfolds.
#* '''1839''', {{w|Thomas De Quincey}}, “Lake Reminiscences: No. V, Southey, Wordsworth, and Coleridge” originally published in ''{{w|Tait's Magazine|Tait’s Magazine}}'', August 1839, in {{w|David Masson}} (editor), ''The Collected Writings of Thomas De Quincey'', London: A. & C. Black, 1896, Volume 2, Chapter 5, pp. 340-341,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/collectedwriting02dequuoft]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the barriers, which to them limit the view, and give to it, together with the contraction, all the distinctness and definite outline of limitation, are, in nine cases out of ten, the product of their own defective and '''aberrating''' vision, and not real barriers at all.
#* '''1951''', {{w|William Faulkner}}, ''{{w|Requiem for a Nun}}'', New York: Vintage, 1975, Act Two, Scene 2, pp. 173-174,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/requiemfornun00faul]</sup>
#*: {{...}} after all the Governor of a Southern state has got to try to act like he regrets having to '''aberrate''' from being a gentleman—
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[distort]]; to cause [[aberration]] of. {{defdate|late 19th century}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1893''', {{w|Bret Harte}}, ''Sally Dows'', Chapter 6, in ''Sally Dows and Other Stories'', Boston: Houghton Mifflin, p. 104,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sallydowsandothe00hartiala]</sup>
#*: He saw them through no '''aberrating''' mist of tenderness or expediency—but with the single directness of the man of action.
#* '''1918''', {{w|Theodore Dreiser}}, “The Lost Phœbe” in ''Free and Other Stories'', New York: Boni and Liveright, p. 122,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/freeotherstories00dreiuoft]</sup>
#*: He and Phœbe had had a senseless quarrel {{...}} and she had left. It was an '''aberrated''' fulfillment of her old jesting threat that if he did not behave himself she would leave him.
#* '''1934''', {{w|Grey Owl|Archibald Belaney}}, ''Pilgrims of the Wild'', London: Lovat Dickson & Thompson, 1935, Chapter 1,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20141061/html.php]</sup>
#*: Don’t imagine that there was any sudden and complete renunciation such as overcomes the luckless and often temporarily '''aberrated''' victim of a highly emotionalized revival meeting; this would have been, at best, but temporary.
#* '''1950''', Louis S. London, ''Sexual Deviations'', cited in reviews in ''{{w|Time (magazine)|Time}}'', 17 April, 1950 (“Medicine: The Abnormal”)<sup>[http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,805412,00.html]</sup> and ''Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association'', Volume 43, August, 1950, p. 802,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/journalofindiana4311indi]</sup>
#*: {{...}} sexually '''aberrated''' individuals can be treated most successfully via the method of psycho-analytic psychotherapy.
#* '''2014''', James Adams, “Group of who? A new book paints the fullest picture yet of Canada’s vision of Impressionism,” ''{{w|The Globe and Mail}}'', 5 December, 2014,<sup>[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/arts/art-and-architecture/group-of-who-a-new-book-paints-the-fullest-picture-yet-of-canadas-vision-of-impressionism/article21967828/]</sup>
#*: As these monographs and as these occasional exhibition catalogues on some handful of Canadian Impressionists started to appear, once again, I was surprised (to say it with the utmost respect) that they were '''aberrated''', there was no timeline, there was no continuity.

====Usage notes====
* The transitive sense is chiefly used in the past participle form (as ''[[aberrated]]'').

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|aberr}}
* {{l|en|aberrance}}
* {{l|en|aberrant}}
* {{l|en|aberration}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to deviate from; to go astray}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|aberrar}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|ابیراهیدن|tr=abirahidan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aberrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb form|cat2=past participle forms}}

# {{inflection of|aberrare||2|p|pres|indc|lang=it}}
# {{inflection of|aberrare||2|p|impr|lang=it}}
# {{inflection of|aberrato||f|p|lang=it}}

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|aberrāte}}

# {{inflection of|aberrō||1|p|pres|actv|impr|lang=la}}