==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|abhor|er}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/æbˈhɔɹ.ɘ/|/æbˈhɔɹ.ɚ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-abhorrer.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One who [[abhors]]. {{defdate|Early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Brown, Lesley  | others =  | title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1933| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 5th | date =  | year =2003| month =  | publisher =Oxford University Press  | location =Oxford, UK | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-0-19-860575-7 | lccn = | ol = | pages =4| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>
#* '''1839''', Jeremy Bentham & John Bowring, ''The works of Jeremy Bentham, now first collected; under the superintendence of his executor, John Bowring'', p450
#*: Be they what they may, the barbarities of the Catholics of those times had their limits: but of this '''abhorrer''' of Catholic barbarities, the barbarity has, in respect of the number of intended victims, no limits other than those of time.
#* '''1948''', Joseph Wood Krutch, ''Henry David Thoreau'', p236
#*: The “even be killed” is not comic, for Thoreau the individualist must have found it in theory as difficult to imagine himself dying for others as Thoreau the '''abhorrer''' of violence found it difficult to imagine himself killing another individual.
#* '''1959''', Dorothy Sterling, ''Mary Jane'', p83
#*: Hate, detester, '''abhorrer'''. Enemy, ennemi. With her tongue curled over her lip, she copied them in her notebook, then made them into sentences.
#* '''1970''', Robert Leckie, ''Warfare'', p128
#*: Thus, chiefly through the efforts of this lover of peace and '''abhorrer''' of war, the art of maiming and killing became ever more efficient.
#* '''1999''', Guy A. J. Tops [[et alios]], ''Thinking English Grammar: to honour Xavier Dekeyser'', p59
#*: The problem of usage comes in for '''abhorrer''' in various ways: There are 63 entries with the root abhor, including 3 '''abhorrer''', 17 abhorrence.
# {{context|historical|sometimes|capitalized}} A [[nickname]] given in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century to [[signatories]] of [[addresses]] of a petition to reconvene [[parliament]], adressed to Charles II. {{defdate|Early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1890''', Thomas de Quincey & David Masson, ''The Collected Writings of Thomas de Quincey'', p389
#*: Pretty much as Lincoln is thus supposed to arise out of the word ''fleas'', so (according to Rapin) do the words Whig and Tory arise out of ''addresser'' and '''''abhorrer'''''…
#* '''1949''', Felix Morley, ''The Power in the People'', p76
#*: Whether “Petitioner” or '''“Abhorrer”''', his opinion was asked and use of his undistinguished name was requested…
#* '''1966''', Robert Gourlay, ''General Introduction to Statistical Account of Upper Canada'', p1
#*: He might be assimilated to a madman, but the honourable Gentleman himself was an '''abhorrer''', and an '''abhorrer''' could not reason.
#* '''1999''', Guy A. J. Tops [[et alios]], ''Thinking English Grammar: to honour Xavier Dekeyser'', p59
#*: The terms ''petitioners'' and '''''abhorrer'''s'' in this context were later superseded by Whig and Tory.

====Related terms====
* [[abhor]]
* [[abhorred]]
* [[abhorrence]]
* [[abhorrency]]
* [[abhorrent]]
* [[abhorrently]]
* [[abhorrible]]
* [[abhorring]]

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[harborer#English|harborer]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|abhorrere|abhorrēre|lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|abhorreo|abhorreō|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/a.bɔ.ʁe/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-Paris--abhorrer.ogg|Audio (Paris)}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb}}

# to [[abominate]], to [[abhor]], to[[loathe]]

====Conjugation====
{{fr-conj-er|abhorr|avoir}}

----

==Middle French==

===Verb===
{{head|frm|verb}}

# to [[abhor]]

====Conjugation====
{{frm-conj-er|abhorr}}

[[de:abhorrer]]
[[et:abhorrer]]
[[el:abhorrer]]
[[es:abhorrer]]
[[fr:abhorrer]]
[[ko:abhorrer]]
[[hy:abhorrer]]
[[io:abhorrer]]
[[it:abhorrer]]
[[li:abhorrer]]
[[hu:abhorrer]]
[[nl:abhorrer]]
[[ja:abhorrer]]
[[pl:abhorrer]]
[[pt:abhorrer]]
[[ro:abhorrer]]
[[ru:abhorrer]]
[[tr:abhorrer]]
[[vi:abhorrer]]
[[zh:abhorrer]]