{{slim-wikipedia|dab=ability}}
{{also|-ability}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|obsolete}} [[hability]]

===Etymology===
* First attested from before 1398.
* From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|abilite||suitability, aptitude, ability|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|frm}} {{term|habilite|habilité|lamg=frm}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|ablete||lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|lang=la|habilitas|habilitās|aptness, ability}}, from {{term|lang=la|habilis||apt, fit, skillful, able}}.
* See [[able]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbɪl.ə.ti/|/əˈ.bɪl.ɪ.ti/}}
* {{audio|en-us-ability.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|abilit|ies|-}}

# {{obsolete}} Suitableness. {{defdate|Attested from around (1350 to 1470) until the late 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Brown, Lesley  | others =  | title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1933| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 5th | date =  | year =2003| month =  | publisher =Oxford University Press  | location =Oxford, UK | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-0-19-860575-7 | lccn = | ol = | pages =4| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>
# {{uncountable}} The quality or state of being able; capacity to do; capacity of doing something; having the necessary power. {{defdate|First attested from around (1350 to 1470).}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''This phone has the '''ability''' to have its software upgraded wirelessly.''
#: ''This wood has the '''ability''' to fight off insects, fungus, and mold for a considerable time.''
# Having the legal wherewithal to act. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 17 <sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{nowadays|Scotland|dialectal}} Physical power. {{defdate|First attested from around (1350 to 1470).}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{archaic}} Financial ability. {{defdate|First attested in the early 16 <sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{uncountable}} A unique power of the mind; a faculty. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16 <sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]
#*: Natural '''abilities''' are like natural plants, that need pruning by study -
# {{countable}} A [[skill]] or [[competence]] in doing; mental power; talent; [[aptitude]]. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17 <sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* {{rfdate}} ''[[w:King James Bible|King James Bible]]'', Acts 11:29
#*: Then the disciples, every man according to his '''ability''', determined to send relief unto the brethren.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]]
#*: The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of '''ability'''
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=November 10
|author=Jeremy Wilson
|title=	England Under 21 5 Iceland Under 21 0: match report
|work=Telegraph
|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/england/8882713/England-Under-21-5-Iceland-Under-21-0-match-report.html
|page=
|passage=The most persistent tormentor was Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who scored a hat-trick in last month’s corresponding fixture in Iceland. His '''ability''' to run at defences is instantly striking, but it is his clever use of possession that has persuaded some shrewd judges that he is an even better prospect than Theo Walcott. }}
#: ''They are persons of '''ability''', who will go far in life.''
#: ''She has an uncanny '''ability''' to defuse conflict.''

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|skill or competence}} Usually used in the plural.
* Ability, capacity : these words come into comparison when applied to the higher intellectual powers.
** '''Ability''' has reference to the ''active'' exercise of our [[faculties]]. It implies not only native [[vigor]] of mind, but that ease and [[promptitude]] of execution which arise from mental [[training]]. Thus, we speak of the ''ability'' with which a book is written, an argument maintained, a negotiation carried on, etc. It always supposes something to be ''done'',<ref group="usage">George Crabb, 1826, ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=YEgSAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13 English synonymes explained in alphabetical order]'', Collins & Hannay, p. 13</ref> and the power of ''doing'' it.
** '''Capacity''' has reference to the ''receptive'' powers. In its higher exercises it [[suppose]]s great [[quickness]] of [[apprehension]] and [[breadth]] of [[intellect]], with an uncommon [[aptitude]] for [[acquire|acquiring]] and [[retain]]ing knowledge. Hence it carries with it the idea of ''resources'' and [[undeveloped]] power. Thus we speak of the extraordinary ''capacity'' of such men as [[w:Francis Bacon|Lord Bacon]], [[w:Blaise Pascal|Blaise Pascal]], and [[w:Edmund Burke|Edmund Burke]]. "''Capacity''," says H. Taylor, "is [[requisite]] to [[devise]], and ''ability'' to [[execute]], a great enterprise."
* The word ''abilities'', in the plural, embraces both these qualities, and denotes high mental [[endowments]].
<references group="usage"/>

====Synonyms====

* {{sense|quality or state of being able}} [[capacity]], [[faculty]], [[capability]]
* {{sense|a skill or competence}} See [[Wikisaurus:skill]]
* {{sense|high level of skill or capability}} [[talent]], [[cleverness]], [[dexterity]], [[aptitude]]
* {{sense|suitability or receptiveness to be acted upon}} [[capability]], [[faculty]], [[capacity]], [[aptness]], [[aptitude]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|able}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|quality or state of being able}}
* American Sign Language: {{tø|ase|S@Sternumhigh-PalmDown-S@Sternumhigh-PalmDown S@Chesthigh-PalmDown-S@Chesthigh-PalmDown}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|قدرة|f|tr=qúdra|sc=Arab}}
* Basque: [[gaitasun]], [[trebetasun]], [[abilezia]]
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вещина|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|кадърност|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|ловкост|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|能力|tr=nénglì|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t-|kw|gallos|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|schopnost}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|evne|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vaardigheid}}, {{t+|nl|vermogen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kyky}}
* French: {{t+|fr|capacité|f}}, {{t+|fr|pouvoir|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fähigkeit|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ικανότητα|f|tr=ikanotita}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|יכולת|f|tr=yakhólet}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|योग्यता|f|tr=yogyatā}}, {{t-|hi|योग्यत्व|m|tr=yogyatva}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|ábaltacht|f}}, {{t+|ga|cumas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abilità|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|能力|tr=のうりょく, nōryoku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|능력|tr=neungnyeok, 能力|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ده‌ره‌قه‌ت|tr=daraqat|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|له‌ده‌س هاتن|tr=ladas hAtin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|мүмкүнчүлүк|tr=mjümkjünchülük}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|prudentia|f}}, {{t-|la|calliditas|f}}, {{t-|la|calliditas|f}}, {{t-|la|solertia|f}}, {{t-|la|ars|f}}, {{t-|la|ars|f}}, {{t-|la|ars|f}}, {{t+|la|scientia|f}}, {{t-|la|sollers acumen}}, {{t+|la|potestas|f}}, {{t-|la|potentia|f}}, {{t-|la|habilitas|f}}
* Lithuanian: [[gebėjimas]] {{m}}
* Macedonian: [[способност]] (sposobnost)
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|abilità|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|evne}} ''m1''
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|habilidade}}, {{t|pt|capacidade|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|putință|f}}, {{t+|ro|capacitate|f}}, {{t-|ro|iscusință}}, {{t-|ro|abilitate|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возможность|f|tr=vozmóžnostʹ}}, {{t+|ru|способность|f|tr=sposóbnostʹ}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|способност|f|alt=спосо́бно̄ст|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|sposobnost|f|alt=sposóbnōst}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|zmožnost|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|habilidad|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|uwezo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förmåga|c}}
* Telugu: [[దక్షత]] (dakshata), [[సత్తా]] (sattaa)
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|یوگیتا|f|tr=yogyatā|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t-|ur|یوگیتو|m|tr=yogyatva|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|năng lực}} ({{t-|vi|能力}})
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|fäg}}
* Welsh: [[gallu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a skill or competence}}
* {{ttbc|ase}}: {{tø|ase|S@Sternumhigh-PalmDown-S@Sternumhigh-PalmDown S@Chesthigh-PalmDown-S@Chesthigh-PalmDown}}
* {{ttbc|bg}}: {{t-|bg|способност, умение, дарба}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t+|fr|habileté|f}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|abilite}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|capacità|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|能力|tr=nōryoku}}, [[才能]] (sainō)
* {{ttbc|ku}}:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|توانا|tr=twAnA|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|mt}}: {{t-|mt|kapaċità|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|habilidade}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|abilitate|f}}, {{t-|ro|iscusință|f}}, {{t-|ro|îndemânare|f}}, {{t-|ro|dibăcie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|способность|f|tr=sposóbnost'}}, {{t+|ru|умение|n|tr=uménije}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|capacidad|f}}
* {{ttbc|sw}}: {{t+|sw|uwezo}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t+|vo|skil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a high level of capability or skill}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|destreza|f}}, {{t|pt|perícia|f}}, {{t|pt|habilidade|f}}, {{t|pt|mestria|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|suitability or receptiveness to be acted on}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[năng lực]], [[khả năng]], [[tài năng]], [[tài cán]], [[thẩm quyền]], [[khả năng thanh toán được]], [[vốn sẵn có, nguồn vốn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Shorthand====
* Gregg (Version: [[w:Gregg Shorthand#Centennial Gregg shorthand|Centennial]],[[w:Gregg Shorthand#Series 90 Gregg shorthand|Series 90]],[[w:Gregg Shorthand#Diamond Jubilee Gregg shorthand|DJS]],[[w:Gregg Shorthand#Simplified Gregg shorthand|Simplified]]): a - b - disjoined l
: (Version: [[w:Gregg Shorthand#Anniversary Gregg shorthand|Anniversary]],[[w:Gregg Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary Gregg shorthand|Pre-Anniversary]]): a - disjoined b

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===References===
<references/>

[[am:ability]]
[[ar:ability]]
[[be:ability]]
[[cs:ability]]
[[cy:ability]]
[[da:ability]]
[[de:ability]]
[[et:ability]]
[[el:ability]]
[[es:ability]]
[[eu:ability]]
[[fa:ability]]
[[fr:ability]]
[[ko:ability]]
[[hy:ability]]
[[hi:ability]]
[[io:ability]]
[[id:ability]]
[[it:ability]]
[[kn:ability]]
[[ku:ability]]
[[ky:ability]]
[[li:ability]]
[[hu:ability]]
[[mg:ability]]
[[ml:ability]]
[[my:ability]]
[[fj:ability]]
[[nl:ability]]
[[ja:ability]]
[[no:ability]]
[[ps:ability]]
[[pl:ability]]
[[pt:ability]]
[[ro:ability]]
[[ru:ability]]
[[sm:ability]]
[[simple:ability]]
[[sk:ability]]
[[fi:ability]]
[[sv:ability]]
[[tl:ability]]
[[ta:ability]]
[[te:ability]]
[[th:ability]]
[[chr:ability]]
[[tr:ability]]
[[uk:ability]]
[[vi:ability]]
[[vo:ability]]
[[zh:ability]]