==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ăbʹjĕkt}}, {{IPA|/ˈæb.dʒɛkt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"{bdZEkt/}} ''or'' {{enPR|'ăbjĕkt}}, {{IPA|/æb.ˈdʒɛkt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"{bdZIkt/}}
* {{rhymes|ɛkt}}
* {{audio|en-uk-abject.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Etymology 1===
* First attested before 1415.
* From {{etyl|enm}}, {{term|abiect||outcast, wretched|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|abiectus|lang=la}}, past participle of {{term|abicio|abiciō|to throw away, cast off}}, from {{term|ab||away|lang=la}} + {{term|iacio|iaciō|to throw|lang=la}}<ref>{{reference-book | last = Dobbie | first = Elliott K. | coauthors = Dunmore, C. William, et al. | editor = Barnhart, Robert K.| title = Chambers Dictionary of Etymology | origyear = 1998 | year = 2004 | publisher = Chambers Harrap Publishers Ltd | location = Edinburgh, Scotland | isbn =0550142304 | pages = 3}}</ref>.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# Sunk to or existing in a low condition or state.
#*: ''"So thick bestrown '''abject''' and lost lay these, covering the flood."'' - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
# cast down in spirit or hope; [[degraded]]; [[servile]]; [[grovelling]]; Offered in a [[humble]] and often [[ingratiating]] spirit.
#*: ''"Base and '''abject''' flatterers."'' - [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]]
#*: ''"An '''abject''' liar."'' - [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]]
#*: ''"And banish hence these '''abject''', lowly dreams."'' - Shakespeare, ''Taming of the Shrew, I-ii''
#*: ''"He sat obediently with that tentative and '''abject''' eagerness of a man who has but one pleasure left and whom the world can reach only through one sense, for he was both blind and deaf."'' - 1931 Faulkner, ''Sanctuary, ii''
# Showing utter [[hopelessness]]; [[helplessness]]; showing resignation.

=====Usage notes=====
* Nouns to which "abject" is often applied: poverty, fear, submission, misery, failure, state, condition, apology, humility, servitude, manner, coward.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[beggarly]], [[contemptible]], [[cringing]], [[degraded]], [[groveling]], [[ignoble]], [[mean]], [[mean-spirited]], [[slavish]], [[vile]], [[worthless]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[abjectly]]
* [[abjectness]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Sunk to a low condition; down in spirit or hope}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abject|m}},  {{t+|fr|abjecte|f}},  {{t|fr|méprisable}}
* German: {{t|de|elend}}, {{t|de|kläglich}}, {{t|de|jämmerlich}}
* Interlingua: {{t-|ia|abjecte|xs=Interlingua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|abbietto   }}
* Spanish: {{t|es|abatido}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|aşağılık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Cast down; rejected; low-lying}}
* French: {{t+|fr|misérable}}
* German: {{t|de|bitter}} {{gloss|poverty}}, {{t|de|verächtlich}}
* Interlingua: {{t-|ia|abjecte|xs=Interlingua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|жалкий}}, {{t|ru|униженный}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|aşağılanmış}}, {{t|tr|hakir}}, {{t|tr|zelil}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|showing resignation}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|смиренный|m|tr=smirénnyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[низък, долен, жалък]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[hèn hạ]], [[thấp hèn]], [[đê tiện]], [[đáng khinh]], [[khốn khổ]], [[khốn nạn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} A person in the lowest and most [[despicable]] condition; a [[castaway]]; [[outcast]].
#: ''Shall these '''abjects''', these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of pleasure?''- [[w:Isaac Taylor|Isaac Taylor]]
#: ''We are the queen's '''abjects''', and must obey.'' - W. Shakespeare [Richard III, Act I, Scene I]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|A person in the lowest and most despicable condition}}
* French: {{t+|fr|misérable}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|abjecto|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t|it|abbietto}}
* Sardinian:
*: Campidanese Sardinian: {{tø|sro|indinniu }}
*: Logudorese Sardinian: {{tø|src|indinniu }}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sefil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Derived from the adjective form.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[cast off]] or out; to [[reject]].
#* '''2001''', Jana Evans Braziel, Kathleen LeBesco (editors), ''Bodies out of bounds: fatness and transgression'', page 141:
#*: Rather than '''abjecting''' her own fat body, the Ipecac-taking fat girl is '''abjecting''' diet culture.
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To cast down; hence, to [[abase]]; to [[degrade]]; to [[lower]]; to [[debase]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To cast off or down}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[abjection]]

===Shorthand===
* Gregg (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand  Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS]): a - b - j - k - t
: (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): a - b - j - k

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-abject.ogg|abject}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj}}

# {{literary|lang=fr}} Worthy of utmost [[contempt]] or [[disgust]]; [[vile]]; [[despicable]].
# {{literary|obsolete|lang=fr}} Of the lowest [[social]] position.

====Usage notes====
* {{term||Abject}} lacks the idea of groveling, of moral degradation over time that is present in the English word.

====Derived terms====
* [[abjectement]]
* [[abjection]]

[[am:abject]]
[[ar:abject]]
[[de:abject]]
[[et:abject]]
[[el:abject]]
[[es:abject]]
[[fa:abject]]
[[fr:abject]]
[[ko:abject]]
[[hi:abject]]
[[io:abject]]
[[it:abject]]
[[kn:abject]]
[[hu:abject]]
[[ml:abject]]
[[my:abject]]
[[fj:abject]]
[[nl:abject]]
[[ja:abject]]
[[ps:abject]]
[[pl:abject]]
[[pt:abject]]
[[ru:abject]]
[[fi:abject]]
[[sv:abject]]
[[ta:abject]]
[[te:abject]]
[[th:abject]]
[[tr:abject]]
[[uk:abject]]
[[vi:abject]]
[[zh:abject]]