==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|a|bloom|t1=in|t2=flower}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbluːm/}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{context|postpositive|lang=en}} In or into bloom; in a [[blooming]] state; having flower blooms unfolding. {{defdate|Mid 19<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book|last =|first =|authorlink =|coauthors =|editor =Brown, Lesley|others =|title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary|origdate =|origyear = 1933|origmonth =|url =|format =|accessdate =|accessyear =|accessmonth =|edition = 5th|date =|year =2003|month =|publisher =Oxford University Press|location =Oxford, UK|language =|id =|doi =|isbn =978-0-19-860575-7|lccn =|ol =|pages =5|chapter =|chapterurl =|quote =}}</ref>

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(postpositive) in or into bloom; in a blooming state}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|цъфтящ, разцъфтял, в разцвет}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|in bloei}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|faoi bhláth}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: {{t|vi|đang nở hoa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[blooming|Blooming]]; covered in flowers. {{defdate|Mid 19<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} Having something growing or grown.
#* {{ante|1900}} Gregory Hartswick, [Untitled], in [[w:St. Nicholas Magazine|''St. Nicholas'' (magazine)]], volume 27, number 3, January 1900, reprinted in, 1900, ''St. Nicholas'' volume 27, page 274&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=QWUwAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA274&dq=abloom]:
#*: For Santa Claus comes&nbsp;/ With reindeer and sleigh&nbsp;/ To fill up the stockings on glad Christmas Day.&nbsp;/ And there in the library&nbsp;/ Stands a great tree&nbsp;/ With gifts all '''abloom''', most lovely to see!
#* '''1902''', [[w:Hamilton Wright Mabie|Hamilton Wright Mabie]], ''Under the Trees'', page62&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=sNY8AAAAYAAJ&pg=PA62&dq=abloom]:
#*: Who does not feel the passage of divine dreams over his troubled life when the infinite meadows of heaven are suddenly '''abloom''' with light?
#* '''1998''', [[w:Tom Wolfe|Tom Wolfe]], [[w:A Man in Full|''A Man in Full'']], chapter 15:
#*: He was '''abloom''' with heat and anxiety. The sweat underneath his arms had turned into an oily slick.
# Thriving in health, beauty, and vigor; exhibiting youth-like beauty.
#* '''1987''', Merrill J. Mattes, ''The Great Platte River Road'', page 70:
#*: The Hollywood concept of clean-shaven, square-jawed young men and fragrant young ladies with cheeks '''abloom''' does not seem to square with the facts.
#* '''1997''', [[w:Ruth Langan|Ruth Langan]], ''Jade'', chapter 1:
#*: When they returned, Jade's cheeks were '''abloom''', her eyes alight with anticipation.

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[mabolo#English|mabolo]]

[[et:abloom]]
[[el:abloom]]
[[fa:abloom]]
[[ko:abloom]]
[[io:abloom]]
[[it:abloom]]
[[kn:abloom]]
[[hu:abloom]]
[[ml:abloom]]
[[ps:abloom]]
[[pl:abloom]]
[[ru:abloom]]
[[ta:abloom]]
[[th:abloom]]
[[uk:abloom]]
[[vi:abloom]]