==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm}} {{term|ablucion}}, {{term|ablution|lang=fr}}, and its source, {{etyl|LL.}} {{term|ablutio||washing, cleansing, ablution|lang=la}}, from the stem of {{etyl|la}} {{term|abluo|abluō|I wash away|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|uːʃən}}
* {{audio|en-us-ablution.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{chemistry}} Originally, the [[purifying]] of oils and other substances by emulsification with hot water; now more generally, a thorough [[cleansing]] of a [[precipitate]] or other non-dissolved substance. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
# The act of [[washing]] or [[cleansing]] the body, or some part of it, as a [[religious]] [[rite]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|Western|_|Christianity}} The [[rinse|rinsing]] of the priest's hand following the [[Communion]] with, depending on [[rite]], [[water]] or a mix of it and [[wine]], which may then be drunk by the priest. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# {{literary|or|humorous|usually|in plural}} [[washing|Washing]] oneself; [[bathing]], cleaning oneself up. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1835|author=[[s:Author:William Gilmore Simms|William Gilmore Simms]]|title=[[s:The Partisan|The Partisan]]|publisher=Harper|section=[[s:The Partisan/II|Chapter II]]|page=[[s:Page:The Partisan, v1.djvu/26|25]]|passage=He followed the steps of Bella, who soon conducted him to his chamber, and left him to those '''ablutions''' which a long ride along a sandy road had rendered particularly necessary.}}
# The water used in cleansing. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]
#*: Cast the '''ablutions''' in the main.
# {{context|Orthodox|_|Christianity}} The [[ritual]] consumption by the [[deacon]] or priest of [[leftover]] sacred wine of host after the Communion.

====Related terms====
* [[abluent]]
* [[ablute]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the act of washing or cleansing}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|промивка}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|peseytyminen}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|ionladh|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abluzione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|ablutio|f|alt=ablūtiō}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|омовение|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ablución|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the water used in cleansing}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pesuvesi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Roman Catholic Church: a small quantity of wine and water}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[avdes]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[ablución]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[lễ rửa tội]], [[lễ tắm gội]], [[lễ rửa sạch các đồ thờ]], [[nước tắm gội]], [[nước rửa đồ thờ]], [[sự tắm gội]], [[sự rửa ráy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[abutilon#English|abutilon]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{context|Western|_|Christianity|lang=fr}} Ritual rinsing of the priest's hand; [[#English|ablution]].
# {{rare|lang=fr}} A [[washing]], especially ritual.

====Usage notes====
* The various other meanings of the word are usually only used in the plural.

====Derived terms====
* [[ablutions]]

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* [[oubliant#French|oubliant]]

[[ar:ablution]]
[[et:ablution]]
[[el:ablution]]
[[es:ablution]]
[[fa:ablution]]
[[fr:ablution]]
[[ko:ablution]]
[[io:ablution]]
[[kn:ablution]]
[[ka:ablution]]
[[hu:ablution]]
[[my:ablution]]
[[ps:ablution]]
[[pl:ablution]]
[[ru:ablution]]
[[fi:ablution]]
[[sv:ablution]]
[[ta:ablution]]
[[te:ablution]]
[[th:ablution]]
[[tr:ablution]]
[[uk:ablution]]
[[vi:ablution]]
[[zh:ablution]]