==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|abolisshen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|abolir||to abolish|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term/t|la|abolēre||destroy, cause to die out}},  present active infinitive of {{term/t|la|aboleō||destroy, abolish}}, {{term|abolesco||to wither, to decay|lang=la}},<ref>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Urdang, Laurence    | others =  | title = The Random House College Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1975| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition =  | date =  | year =1984| month =  | publisher =Random House, Inc.  | location = New York, NY | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =0-394-43600-8 | lccn = | ol = | pages =4| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref> from {{term|ab||from, away from|lang=la}} + {{term/t|la|oleō||to grow}}.<ref>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Gove, Philip Babcock    | others =  | title = Webster's Third International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged | origdate =  | origyear = 1909 | origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition =  | date =  | year =1976  | month =  | publisher =G. & C. Merriam Co.  | location = Springfield, MA | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =0-87779-101-5 | lccn = | ol = | pages =4| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|ə-bŏl'ĭsh}} {{IPA|/əˈbɒlɪʃ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@"bQlIS/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbɑl.ɪʃ/|/əˈbɑl.əʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-abolish.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|abolish|es}}

# To end a [[law]], [[system]], [[institution]], [[custom]] or [[practice]]. {{defdate|First attested from around 1350 to 1470.}}<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Brown, Lesley  | others =  | title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1933| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 5th | date =  | year =2003| month =  | publisher =Oxford University Press  | location =Oxford, UK | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-0-19-860575-7 | lccn = | ol = | pages =6| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>
#: ''Slavery was '''abolished''' in the nineteenth century.''
#* '''2002''': William Schabas. ''The '''abolition''' of the death penalty in international law''. Cambridge University Press.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} To or [[destroy]], as a physical object; to [[wipe out]]. {{defdate|First attested from around 1350 to 1470.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* ''And with thy blood '''abolish''' so reproachful blot.'' - [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]]
#* ''His quick instinctive hand Caught at the hilt, as to '''abolish''' him.'' - [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]]

====Synonyms====
{{sense|to end a law}} [[abrogate]], [[annul]], [[cancel]], [[nullify]], [[repeal]], [[revoke]]
<!-- what to do with this? WikiSaurus?
These words have in common the idea of setting aside by some [[overruling]] act.
* ''Abolish'' [[applies]] particularly to things of a permanent nature, such as institutions, usages, customs, etc.; as, to ''abolish'' [[monopolies]], [[serfdom]], slavery. ''Repeal'' [[describes]] the act by which the legislature of a state sets aside a law which it had previously [[enacted]].
* ''Abrogate'' was originally applied to the [[repeal]] of a law by the Roman people; and hence, when the power of making laws was [[usurped]] by the [[emperors]], the term was applied to ''their'' act of setting aside the laws. Thus it came to express that act by which a sovereign or an [[executive]] government sets aside laws, [[ordinances]], [[regulations]], [[treaties]], [[conventions]], etc.
* ''Revoke'' denotes the act of [[recalling]] some previous grant which [[conferred]], privilege, etc.; as, to ''revoke'' a decree, to ''revoke'' a power of [[attorney]], a promise, etc. Thus, also, we speak of the ''revocation'' of the [[Edict]] of [[Nantes]].
* ''Annul'' is used in a more general sense, denoting simply to make void; as, to ''annul'' a contract, to ''annul'' an agreement.
* ''Nullify'' is an old word applied to the setting of things aside either by force or by total [[disregard]]; as, to ''nullify'' an act of Congress.
* ''Cancel'' is to strike out or annul, by a [[deliberate]] exercise of power, something which has [[operative]] force. -->

====Related terms====
* [[abolisher]]
* [[abolition]]
* [[abolitionist]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to end a law}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يبطل|tr=yubṭil|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|يلغي|tr=yulği|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|يبطل|tr=yebṭel|sc=Arab}}, {{t|arz|يلغي|tr=yelği|sc=Arab}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|abolir}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|касаваць|tr=kasavác’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|be|скасаваць|tr=skasavác’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|премахвам}}, {{t+|bg|отменям}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|abolir}}, {{t+|ca|suprimir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|取消|tr=qǔxiāo|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|廢除|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|废除|tr=fèichú|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|廢止|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|废止|tr=fèizhǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zrušit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afschaffen}}
* Esperanto: [[abolicii]], [[forigi]]
* Estonian: [[tühistama]], [[kaotama]]
* Finnish: [[lakkauttaa]], [[lopettaa]]
* French: {{t+|fr|abolir}}, {{t+|fr|supprimer}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|abolir}}
* German: {{t+|de|abschaffen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|καταργώ}}, {{t+|el|καταλύω}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|aboli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ביטל|tr=bitél}}
* Interlingua: [[abolir]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|abolire}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|廃止|tr=はいしする, haishi suru|alt=廃止する|sc=Jpan}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ລົບລ້າງ|tr=lop-laang|sc=Laoo}}
* Norwegian: avskaffe, forkaste
* Novial: [[aboli]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abolir}}, {{t+|pt|suprimir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отменять|tr=otmenjátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|отменить|tr=otmenítʹ}} {{pf.}}
* Slovak: [[zrušiť]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abolir}}, {{t+|es|suprimir}}, {{t+|es|abrogar}}, {{t+|es|quitar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|överge}}, {{t+|sv|förkasta}}
* Thai: [[เลิก]] (lêrk), [[ยกเลิก]] (yok-lêrk), [[ยุบเลิก]] (yoob-lêrk)
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|касувати|tr=kasuváty|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}
* Volapük: [[säkibön]], [[finidön]]
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|diddymu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to destroy}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|унищожавам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vernietigen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|détruire}}
* German: {{t+|de|vernichten}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הרס|tr=harás}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|destroçar}}, {{t+|pt|arrasar}}, {{t|pt|acabar com}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уничтожать|tr=uničtožátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|уничтожить|tr=uničtóžitʹ}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|destrozar}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|dinistrio}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[thủ tiêu]], [[bãi bỏ]], [[huỷ bỏ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[am:abolish]]
[[ar:abolish]]
[[az:abolish]]
[[cy:abolish]]
[[et:abolish]]
[[el:abolish]]
[[fa:abolish]]
[[fr:abolish]]
[[gl:abolish]]
[[ko:abolish]]
[[hi:abolish]]
[[io:abolish]]
[[it:abolish]]
[[kn:abolish]]
[[ku:abolish]]
[[la:abolish]]
[[lt:abolish]]
[[hu:abolish]]
[[mg:abolish]]
[[ml:abolish]]
[[my:abolish]]
[[ja:abolish]]
[[oc:abolish]]
[[ps:abolish]]
[[pl:abolish]]
[[pt:abolish]]
[[ru:abolish]]
[[simple:abolish]]
[[fi:abolish]]
[[sv:abolish]]
[[ta:abolish]]
[[te:abolish]]
[[th:abolish]]
[[chr:abolish]]
[[tr:abolish]]
[[uk:abolish]]
[[vi:abolish]]
[[zh:abolish]]