==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''abortivus'', from ''aboriri''. See [[abort]], (verb)

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{rare}} Produced by [[abortion]]; born [[prematurely]]; as, an '''abortive''' child.
# {{obsolete}} Made from the skin of a [[still-born]] animal; as, '''abortive''' [[vellum]].
# {{obsolete}} Rendering [[fruitless]] or [[ineffectual]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* Plunged in that '''abortive''' gulf. [[Milton]]
# Coming to [[naught]]; [[failing]] in its effect; [[miscarrying]]; [[fruitless]]; [[unsuccessful]]; as, an '''abortive''' attempt.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* An '''abortive''' enterprise. - [[Prescott]]
# {{biology}} [[imperfectly|Imperfectly]] formed or developed; [[rudimentary]]; [[sterile]]; as, an '''abortive''' organ, [[stamen]], [[ovule]], etc.
# {{medicine}} Causing abortion; as, '''abortive''' medicines. - [[Parr]]
# {{medicine}} Cutting short; as, ''abortive'' treatment of [[typhoid]] fever.

====Derived terms====
* [[abortiveness]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} That which is born or brought forth [[prematurely]]; an [[abortion]]. - Shakespeare, ''Richard III, I-iii''
# {{obsolete}} A [[fruitless]] effort or issue.
# A medicine to which is [[attributed]] the property of causing abortion, [[abortifacient]] - [[Dunglison]]

====Translations====
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[avortiu]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[abortif]]
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[erfolglos]] (4,7)
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[abortive]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[abortito]], [[abortivo]]
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[abortivo]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[abortivo]]
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[đẻ non]], [[non yếu]], [[chết non chết yểu]], [[sớm thất bại]], [[không phát triển đầy đủ]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===References===
Webster 1913


----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
'''abortive''' {{f}}

# Feminine plural form of [[abortivo]]

[[Category:Italian adjective forms]]

[[ar:abortive]]
[[fa:abortive]]
[[fr:abortive]]
[[io:abortive]]
[[it:abortive]]
[[pt:abortive]]
[[fi:abortive]]
[[ta:abortive]]
[[te:abortive]]
[[vi:abortive]]
[[tr:abortive]]