==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|aboriginal|ly}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌæb.əˌɹɪd͡ʒ.n̩.ə.li/|/ˌæb.əˌɹɪd͡ʒ.ɪn.ə.li/|lang=en}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# From or in the earliest known times. {{defdate|First attested in the early 19th century.}}<ref>{{R:SOED5|page=6}}</ref>
#* '''1851''', {{w|Herman Melville}}, ''{{w|Moby-Dick}},'' Chapter{{nbsp}}58,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/2701/2701-h/2701-h.htm]</sup>
#*: {{...}} man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea which '''aboriginally''' belongs to it.
#* '''1868''', {{w|Charles Darwin}}, ''{{w|The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication}},'' London: John Murray, Volume{{nbsp}}, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, pp.{{nbsp}}52-53,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/NHM_UK_L_2631475001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} '''aboriginally''' the horse must have inhabited countries annually covered with snow, for he long retains the instinct of scraping it away to get at the herbage beneath.
#* '''2006''', {{w|Stephen Fry}}, ''The Ode Less Travelled: Unlocking the Poet Within,'' New York: Gotham, Part{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}145,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/odelesstravelled00frys]</sup>
#*: {{...}} music, like verse, can do ''rhythm'' but it is only poetry that can yoke words together in rhyme (sometimes, of course, and '''aboriginally''', at the service of music).
# In the period before [[contact]] with [[European]]s (especially with reference to peoples subjected to [[colonization]]).
#* '''1896''', Allan Eric, ''“Buckra” Land: Two Weeks in Jamaica,'' Boston, Appendix,,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/buckraland00will]</sup>
#*: Xaymaca, as the island was '''aboriginally''' known, is situated in the Caribbean Sea {{...}}
#* '''1973''', {{w|Charles F. Hockett}}, ''Man’s Place in Nature,'' New York: McGraw-Hill, Chapter{{nbsp}}31, p.{{nbsp}}523,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/mansplaceinnatur00hock]</sup>
#*: {{...}} in the New World, where pots were never '''aboriginally''' shaped by turning, wheeled vehicles also were absent {{...}}
#* '''1986''', Robert L. Blakely and David S. Mathews, “What Price Civilization?” in Miles Richardson and Malcolm C. Webb (eds.), ''The Burden of Being Civilized: An Anthropological Perspective on the Discontents of Civilization,'' Athens: University of Georgia Press, p.{{nbsp}}12,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/burdenofbeingciv0000unse]</sup>
#*: The question is, was the disease [tuberculosis] present '''aboriginally''' in the New World, or was it introduced to Native Americans by European explorers?
# {{lb|en|Canada}} By [[indigenous]] [[Canadian]]s (often capitalized in this sense). {{defdate|First attested in the 1980s.}}
#* '''1987''', Kate Irving, ''What Government Does in the Western Northwest Territories,'' Yellowknife: Western Constitutional Forum,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/whatgovernmentdo0000irvi]</sup>
#*: All land subject to the claim becomes either Crown land or '''aboriginally'''-owned land.
#* '''1991''', Jim Harding, ''An Annotated Bibliography of Aboriginal-controlled Justice Programs in Canada,'' Prairie Justice Research, School of Human Justice, University of Regina, p.{{nbsp}}80,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/annotatedbibliog0000hard]</sup>
#*: It appears that lack of funding and control led to the demise of this program, but that with further refinement the idea has merit especially within an '''Aboriginally'''-controlled justice system.
#* '''2002''', Bradford W. Morse and Robert K. Groves, “Métis and Non-status Indians and Section 91(24) of the ''Constitution Act, 1867” in Paul L.A.H. Chartrand (ed.), ''Who Are Canada’s Aboriginal Peoples?'' Saskatoon: Purich Publishing, pp.{{nbsp}}209-210,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/whoarecanadasabo0000unse]</sup>
#*: These areas {{...}} relate to the identity of '''Aboriginally''' predominant communities.
# To the [[utmost]] [[degree]] (modifying an adjective).
#: {{syn|en|absolutely|thoroughly|utterly}}
#* '''1920''', {{w|Greville MacDonald}}, ''The Sanity of {{w|William Blake}},'' London: George Allen and Unwin, p.{{nbsp}}24,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sanityofwilliamb00macduoft]</sup>
#*: Though his rage against iniquity is '''aboriginally''' simple and childlike, and is certainly not always level-headed, it is never divorced from reason {{...}}
#* '''1931''', {{w|G. K. Chesterton}}, “Dickens at Christmas” in Marie Smith (ed.), ''The Spirit of Christmas: Stories, Poems, Essays,'' New York: Dodd, Mead, 1985, p.{{nbsp}}77,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/spiritofchristma00ches]</sup>
#*: There is something '''aboriginally''' absurd in the idea of the old gentleman staring wild-eyed at his own legs; and half recalling something familiar about them; as if he were revisiting the landscape of his youth.
#* '''1978''', {{w|Iris Murdoch}}, ''{{w|The Sea, the Sea}},'' London: Chatto & Windus, Chapter{{nbsp}}3,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/seas00murd]</sup>
#*: Dried apricots eaten with cake should be soaked and simmered first, eaten with cheese they should be '''aboriginally''' dry.
#* '''2005''', Bella Bathurst, ''The Wreckers,'' Boston: Houghton Mifflin, Chapter{{nbsp}}5, p.{{nbsp}}152,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/wreckersstoryofk00bath]</sup>
#*: {{...}} those travellers who did make the trip [to the {{w|Outer Hebrides|Western Isles}}] returned with stories which made Scotland and the Scots sound as '''aboriginally''' exotic as shark-eating Eskimos or man-eating pygmies.

===References===
<references/>