==English==
{{rft}}
===Etymology===
{{suffix|abortion|ist}}. First attested in 1872.<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Brown, Lesley  | others =  | title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1933| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 5th | date =  | year =2003| month =  | publisher =Oxford University Press  | location =Oxford, UK | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-0-19-860575-7 | lccn = | ol = | pages =7| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbɔɹ.ʃə.nɪst/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|now often|_|historical}} One who [[perform]]s an illegal [[abortion]] in a non-medical setting (a [[back street]], a hotel room, etc).
#* '''2005''', Paul Krassner, ''One Hand Jerking: Reports from an Investigative Satirist'' (ISBN 1583226966), page 24:
#*: In 1962, when abortion was still illegal, I published an anonymous interview with Dr. Robert Spencer, a humane '''abortionist''' who was known as “The Saint.”
#* '''2009&ndash;2010''', Roger Ebert, ''Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook 2010'', review of ''4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days'', page 146:
#*: Then she asks her to go first to meet the '''abortionist'''. Then she neglects to make a reservation at the hotel the '''abortionist''' specifies. That almost sinks the arrangement: The '''abortionist''' has experience suggesting that hotel will be a safe venue, and suspects he may be set up for a police trap.
# {{context|chiefly|in right-wing discourse|pejorative}} An [[abortion provider]]; one who [[perform]]s a legal [[abortion]].
#* '''2003''', Mark Juergensmeyer, ''Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence'' (ISBN 0520240111), page 24:
#*: According to Bray, "there is a difference between taking a retired '''abortionist''' and executing him, and killing a practicing '''abortionist''' who is regularly killing babies." The first act is in Bray's view retributive, the second defensive.
#* '''2009''', Dinesh D'Souza, ''Letters to a Young Conservative'' (ISBN 0786739096), page 191:
#*: {{...}} a gruesome procedure in which the '''abortionist''' dismembers a child who could survive outside the womb.
# {{context|in right-wing discourse|offensive}} One who favors abortion being legal. {{defdate|since the late 19<sup>th</sup> century}}<ref name=SOED/>

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one who performs an illegal (backstreet) abortion}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|engeltjesmaker|m}}, {{t-|nl|engeltjesmaakster|f}}
* French: {{t-|fr|faiseur d'anges|m}}, {{t-|fr|faiseuse d'anges|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Engelmacher|m}}, {{qualifier|euphemistic}} {{gloss|backstreet}} {{t+|de|Engelmacherin|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|änglamakare|c}}, {{t-|sv|änglamakerska|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who performs a legal abortion}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|abortigisto}} {{qualifier|♂(♀)}}, {{t-|eo|virabortigisto}} {{qualifier|explicitly ♂}}, {{t-|eo|abortigistino}} {{qualifier|explicitly ♀}}, {{t-|eo|geabortigistoj|p}} {{qualifier|♂♀}}
* French: {{t-|fr|médecin avorteur|m}}, {{t+|fr|avorteur|m}}, {{t+|fr|avorteuse|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|aborcjonista|m}}, {{t-|pl|aborter|m}}, {{t-|pl|aborcjonistka|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* German: {{t-|de|Abtreiber|m}}, {{t-|de|Abtreiberin|f}}, {{t-|de|Abtreibungsarzt|m}}, {{t-|de|Abtreibungsärztin|f}}, {{t-|de|abtreibender Arzt|m}}, {{t-|de|abtreibende Ärztin|f}}, {{t-|de|Abtreibungshelfer|m}}, {{t-|de|Abtreibungshelferin|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|tr}}: {{t+|tr|kürtajcı}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[người phá thai]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[ar:abortionist]]
[[et:abortionist]]
[[fr:abortionist]]
[[ko:abortionist]]
[[hi:abortionist]]
[[hu:abortionist]]
[[mg:abortionist]]
[[my:abortionist]]
[[pl:abortionist]]
[[pt:abortionist]]
[[ru:abortionist]]
[[fi:abortionist]]
[[tr:abortionist]]
[[vi:abortionist]]
[[zh:abortionist]]