{{see|Abort}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/əˈbɔːt/}}
** {{audio|en-us-abort.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[abortus]]'', past participle of ''[[aboriri]]'' "to miscarry", formed from ''[[ab-]]'' + ''[[oriri]]'' "to come into being".

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[miscarriage]]; an [[untimely]] birth; an [[abortion]].
# The [[product]] of a miscarriage; an [[aborted]] offspring; an [[abortion]].
#: ''Note:'' As with the more modern "abortion" this can refer either to the process or the result of the process.
# {{computing}} The [[function]] used to abort a [[process]].
# {{computing}} An [[event]] involving the abort of a process.
#: ''We've had three '''aborts''' over the last two days.''
# {{military}} An early termination of a mission.
#: We've had '''aborts''' on three of our last seven launches.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A miscarriage}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[avortament]] {{m}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[abort#Crimean Tatar|abort]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|keskenmeno}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abort|m}}, {{t+|de|Schwangerschaftsabbruch|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: [[سقط جنین]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aborto|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|аборт|m|tr=abórt|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|выкидыш|m|tr=výkidyš|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|pobačaj}}
* Spanish: [[aborto]], {{m}}
* Swedish: [[#Swedish|abort]] {{c}}, [[missfall]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The product of a miscarriage}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aborto|m}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|pobačaj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The function used to abort a process}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abbruch|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[miscarry]]; to bring forth something [[prematurely]].
# {{transitive}}  To cause a [[premature]] [[termination]] whether of a [[foetus]] or more generally of anything that has been begun.
# {{intransitive|biology}} To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain [[rudimentary]] or [[shrink]] away wholly; to become [[sterile]].
# {{transitive|computing}} To [[terminate]] a process prior to [[completion]].
# {{military}} To [[terminate]] a [[mission]] for any reason other than enemy action. It may occur at any point after the beginning of the mission and prior to its completion.
# {{rfd-redundant|included in mil sense}} {{aviation|military}} To [[discontinue]] aircraft takeoff or missile launch.

====Derived terms====
* [[abortee]]
* [[aborter]]
* [[abortifacient]]
* [[abortion]]
* [[abortive]]
* [[abortment]]
* [[abortorium]]
* [[abortus]]

====See also====
* [[abend]]
* [[exception]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to miscarry}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[avortar]]
* Dutch: (een) [[miskraam]] [[hebben]], [[voortijdig]] [[bevallen]]
* French: [[avorter]], [[interruption de grossesse]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abortire}}, {{t+|it|fallire}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abortar}}
* Serbian: [[pobaciti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abortar}}
* Swedish: [[få missfall]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[గర్భస్రావం]], [[గర్భ విచ్ఛిత్తి]], [[గర్భపాతం]], [[గర్భోత్పాటనం]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause a premature termination}}
* Dutch: ([[doen]]) [[aborteren]], [[beëindigen]], [[doen]] [[mislukken]]
* French: {{t+|fr|avorter}}, {{t+|fr|interrompre}}, {{t+|fr|abandonner}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[abortti]], [[abortoida]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abortire}}, {{t+|it|interrompere}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abortar}}
* Serbian: [[pobaciti]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abortera}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[అకాల ప్రసవం]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''biology'') to become checked in normal development}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[förkrympa]], [[bli rudimentär]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''computing'') to terminate a process prior to completion}}
* Dutch: [[annuleren]], [[aborteren]], [[stoppen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|keskeyttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|interrompre}}, {{t+|fr|abandonner}}, {{t+|fr|échouer}}, {{t+|fr|s'arrêter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|interrompere}}, {{t+|it|fermare}}
* Swedish: [[avbryta]], [[stoppa]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[నిలుపు]], [[ఆపు]], [[నిలిచిపోవు]], [[ఆగిపోవు]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[abortar]], [[aborto]]
* {{ttbc|Thai}}: [[ยกเลิก]]
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[sẩy thai]], [[đẻ non]], [[không phát triển]], [[thui]], [[làm sẩy thai]], [[phá thai]]

====References====
* Webster's Dictionary 1913 Edition
* JP 1-02 Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Etymology===
{{L.|crh}} [[abortus#Latin|abortus]].

===Noun===
'''abort'''

# [[abort#English|abort]], [[abortion]]

===Declension===
{{crh-latin-noun|nıñ|qa|nı|ta|tan}}

===References===
{{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

[[Category:Crimean Tatar nouns]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}
'''abort''' {{c}}

# [[abort#English|abort]], [[abortion]]

====Related terms====
* [[göra abort]]
* [[få abort]]

{{defn|Estonian}}

[[am:abort]]
[[ar:abort]]
[[be:abort]]
[[da:abort]]
[[fa:abort]]
[[fr:abort]]
[[gl:abort]]
[[io:abort]]
[[id:abort]]
[[it:abort]]
[[no:abort]]
[[pl:abort]]
[[pt:abort]]
[[ru:abort]]
[[sq:abort]]
[[su:abort]]
[[fi:abort]]
[[sv:abort]]
[[tt:abort]]
[[th:abort]]
[[vi:abort]]
[[tr:abort]]
[[uk:abort]]