==English==
{{slim-wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|archaic}} {{l|en|abowt}}
* {{qualifier|abbreviation}} [[a.]]
* {{qualifier|abbreviation}} [[ab.]]
* {{qualifier|abbreviation}}[[abt.]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbaʊt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@"baUt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-about.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-ca-about.ogg|Audio (CAN, British Columbia)}}
* {{audio|en-ca-about-real.ogg|Audio (CAN, Ontario)}}
* {{rhymes|aʊt}}
* {{hyphenation|a|bout}}

===Etymology 1===
* From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|aboute|lang=enm}}, {{term|abouten|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|abutan|abūtan|lang=ang}},<ref name=WI3>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Gove, Philip Babcock    | others =  | title = Webster's Third International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged | origdate =  | origyear = 1909 | origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition =  | date =  | year =1976  | month =  | publisher =G. & C. Merriam Co.  | location = Springfield, MA | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =0-87779-101-5 | lccn = | ol = | pages =5| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref> {{term|onbutan|onbūtan|lang=ang}}, from {{term|on||in, on|lang=ang}} + {{term|butan|būtan|outside of|lang=ang}},<ref name=SOED>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Brown, Lesley  | others =  | title = The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 1933| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 5th | date =  | year =2003| month =  | publisher =Oxford University Press  | location =Oxford, UK | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-0-19-860575-7 | lccn = | ol = | pages =7| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref> from {{term|be||by|lang=ang}} + {{term|utan|ūtan|outside|lang=ang}}.<ref name=OXF>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Lindberg, Christine A.    | others =  | title = The Oxford College Dictionary | origdate =  | origyear = 2002| origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition = 2nd | date =  | year =2007| month =  | publisher =Spark Publishing.  | location =New York, NY | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =978-1-4114-0500-4 | lccn = | ol = | pages =4| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>

====Preposition====
{{en-prep}}

# In a circle around; all round; on every side of; on the outside of. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''c.1604-1605''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:All's Well That Ends Well|All's Well That Ends Well]]
#*: So look '''about''' you; know you any here?
#* '''1769''', King James Bible, Oxford Standard text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Proverbs|Proverbs]]'', iii, 3
#*: Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them '''about''' thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart:
# Near; not far from; regarding [[approximately]] time, size, quantity; on the point or [[verge]] of. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''The show is '''about''' to start.''
#: ''I am not '''about''' to admit to your crime.''
#* '''1769''', King James Bible, Oxford Standard text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Acts of the Apostles|Acts of the Apostles]]'', xviii, 14
#*: And when Paul was now '''about''' to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you:
#* '''1866''', ''A treatise on the law of suits by attachment in the United States'', by Charles Daniel Drake, [http://books.google.de/books?id=Igs-AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA80&lpg=PA80&dq=%22was+about+leaving%22&source=bl&ots=aQXMZaxYAu&sig=T2wNto6m-YO2kSAwyWV-SivvnUw&hl=en&sa=X&ei=YblHUKaUJc2LswbzkIHQDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22was%20about%20leaving%22&f=false page 80]
#*: [It] was held, that the latter requirement was fulfilled by an affidavit declaring that "the defendant was '''about''' leaving the State permanently."
#* '''1769''', King James Bible, Oxford Standard text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Exodus|Exodus]]'', ix, 18
#*: Behold, to morrow '''about''' this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since the foundation thereof even until now.
#* '''c.1590-1591''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:The Two Gentlemen of Verona|The Two Gentlemen of Verona]]''
#*: Therefore I know she is '''about''' my height.''
#* '''1769''', King James Bible, Oxford Standard text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Matthew|Matthew]]'', xx, 3,
#*: And he went out '''about''' the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace
#*: ('''''Note:''''' This use passes into the [[adverbial]] sense.)
# On one's person; nearby the person. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1837''', [[w:Edward Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton|Edward Bulwer-Lytton]], ''Ernest Maltravers: Volume 1''
#*: At this assurance the traveller rose, and approached Alice softly. He drew away her hands from her face, when she said gently, "Have you much money '''about''' you?"
#*: "Oh the mercenary baggage!" said the traveller to himself; and then replied aloud "Why, pretty one? Do you sell your kisses so high, then?"
# Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1671''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''[[s:Paradise Regained/Book 1|Paradise Regained]]''
#*: That heard the Adversary, who, roving still / '''About''' the world, at that assembly famed ...
#* '''1849''', {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay}}, ''The history of England from the accession of James the Second''
#*: He had been known, during several years, as a small poet; and some of the most savage lampoons which were handed '''about''' the coffeehouses were imputed to him.
# [[concern|Concerned]] with; engaged in; [[intent]] on. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1769''', King James Bible, Oxford Standard text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Luke|Luke]]'', ii, 49
#*: And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be '''about''' my Father's business?
# [[concerning|Concerning]]; with regard to; on account of; on the subject of; to affect. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''He knew more '''about''' what was occurring than anyone.''
#* '''1671''' {{w|John Milton}}, ''{{w|Samson Agonistes}}''
#*: I already have made way / To some Philistian lords, with whom to treat / '''About''' thy ransom.
#* '''1860''', {{w|Anthony Trollope}}, ''{{w|Framley Parsonage}}''
#*: 'I'll tell you what, Fanny: she must have her way '''about''' Sarah Thompson. You can see her to-morrow and tell her so.
# {{figurative}} In or near, as in mental faculties ''or'' {{literally}} in possession of; in control of; at one's command; in one's makeup. {{defdate|First attested around (1350 to 1470.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''He has his wits '''about''' him.''
# In the [[immediate]] [[neighborhood]] of; in [[contiguity]] or [[proximity]] to; near, as to place. {{defdate|First attested around (1350 to 1470.)}}<ref name=SOED/>

=====Usage notes=====
* {{sense|on the point or verge of}}  In modern English, always followed by an infinitive that begins with '''to'''. An archaic or obsolete form instead follows the ''about'' with the present participle.
* {{sense|concerning}} Used as a function word to indicate what is dealt with as the object of thought, feeling, or action.

=====Translations=====
{{rfc-tsort|duplicate language: Kyrgyz}}
{{trans-top|around}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|حول|tr=ḥawla - ḥawl|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: [[շուրջ]] (šurǰ)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|大概|tr=dàgài|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|約|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|约|tr=yuē|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kolem}}, {{t+|cs|okolo}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|om}}, {{t-|da|omkring}}, {{t-|da|rundt om}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|om}}, {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĉirkaŭ}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ympärillä}}, {{t+|fi|ympäri}}, {{t-|fi|joka puolella}}
* French: {{t+|fr|autour}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t-|ky|жакын}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|გარშემო|sc=Geor}}
* German: [[um]] ([[herum]])
* Greek: [[περί]] (perí), [[γύρω]] από (jiró apó)
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[סביב]] ל...</span>
* Italian: {{t+|it|circa}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|жөнүндө}}, {{t+|ky|жанында}}, {{t-|ky|жакын}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|辺り|alt=…の辺りで|tr=… no atari de}}, {{t-|ja|辺り|alt=…の辺りに|tr=… no atari ni}}, {{t-|ja|周辺|alt=…の周辺で|tr=… no shuhen de}}, {{t-|ja|周辺|alt=…の周辺に|tr=… no shuhen ni}}
* Kurdish: [[dorî]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|околу|tr=ókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Maltese: [[madwar]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}, {{t-|no|omkring}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|پیرامون|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: [[dookoła]], [[wokoło]], [[wokół]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|perto}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|despre}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кругом|tr=krugóm}}, {{t+|ru|вокруг|tr=vokrúg}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|око|alt=о̏ко|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|oko|alt=ȍko}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|okolo}}
* Slovene: [[okoli]], [[okrog]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alrededor}} de
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|om}}, {{t+|sv|runt}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|etraf}}
* Zulu: {{t-|zu|nga-}} + locative
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in the immediate neighborhood of}}
* Armenian: [[մոտ]] (mot)
* Danish: {{t-|da|på}}
* Dutch: [[omheen]], [[bij]], in de buurt
* Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]], [[kun]] (2, ''on one’s person'')
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mukana}}
* French: [[aux environs]]
* Hebrew: {{Hebr|ב[[איזור]]}}, {{Hebr|ב[[סביבה|סביבת]]}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vicino}}
* Kurdish: [[dorî]]
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|близу|tr=blízu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|در اطراف|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|perto}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|lângă}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|рядом|tr=rjádom}}, {{t+|ru|поблизости|tr=poblízosti}}, {{t+|ru|недалеко|tr=nedalekó}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|pri}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cerca}} de
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|på}}
* Zulu: {{t-|zu|nga-}} + locative
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|over or upon different parts of}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|omkring}}, {{t-|da|rundt om}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]], [[ĉirkaŭe]] [[en]], [[tra]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ympäri}}
* French: [[au-dessus]], [[par dessus]]
* German: {{t+|de|über}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|על}}
* Kurdish: [[dorî]], [[dorî]]
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|наоколу|tr=naókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ponad}}
* Portuguese: [[por aí]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|по|tr=po}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|okolo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encima}} de
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hakkında}}
* Ute: [[-vacɨ]] ([[Chemehuevi]])
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|near}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|حوالي|m|alt=حَوالي|tr=Hawaalii}}
* Armenian: [[մոտ]] (mot)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|接近|tr=jiējìn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kolem}}, {{t+|cs|okolo}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|omkring}}, {{t-|da|cirka}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ongeveer}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĉirkaŭ}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|noin}}, {{t+|fi|suunnilleen}}, {{t+|fi|palttiarallaa}}, {{t+|fi|osapuilleen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|proche}}, {{t+|fr|à côté}}
* German: {{t+|de|ungefähr}}
* Greek: [[κοντά]] (kondá)
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>(ב)[[סביבות]]</span>
* Italian: vicino a
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|およそ|tr=oyoso}}, {{t+|ja|約|alt=約…|tr=yaku}}
* Kurdish: [[dorî]], [[nêzî]], [[teqrîben]]
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|жанында}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|приближно|tr=príbližno|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|mk|околу|tr=ókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|نزدیک|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|około}}
* Portuguese: [[por volta]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приблизительно|tr=priblizítel’no}}, {{t+|ru|примерно|tr=primérno}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mu}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt air}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|okolo}}
* Slovene: [[okoli]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cerca}} de
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yaklaşık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{rfc-tsort|duplicate language: Esperanto}}
{{trans-top|in concern with}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|عن|tr=3an|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|մասին|tr=masin}}
* Chinese:
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|over}}, {{t+|nl|aangaande}}, {{t+|nl|betreffende}}
* Esperanto: [[pri]]
* Esperanto: [[жөнүндө]]
* French: [[au sujet]], [[à propos]], {{t+|fr|au sujet de}}, {{t+|fr|à propos de}}
* German: {{t+|de|über}}, {{t+|de|von}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|על|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|के बारे में|tr=... ke bāre mẽ|alt=... के बारे में|sc=Deva}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|riguardando}}, {{t+|it|su}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|に関して|alt=…に関して|tr=…ni kanshite}}, {{t-|ja|について|alt=…について|tr=…ni tsuite}}
* Kurdish: [[nêzî]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|in}}, {{t+|la|de}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|за|tr=za|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|mk|околу|tr=ókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Maltese: [[dwar]]
* Mandarin: {{t|cmn|關於|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|关于|tr=guānyú|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|對於|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|对于|tr=duìyú|sc=Hani}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|om}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|نزد|tr=nazd|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{l|ru|о}}/{{t+|ru|об|tr=o / ob}} ''(+ [[prepositional case]])'', {{t+|ru|про|tr=pro}} ''(+ [[accusative case]])''
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mu dheidhinn}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|o}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sobre}}, {{t+|es|acerca}} de
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|کے بارے میں|tr=... ke bāre mẽ|alt=... کے بارے میں|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|on the point or verge of}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|til}}, {{t-|da|på vej til}}
* Dutch: op het [[punt]] [[staan]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|-ota}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lähes}}, {{t+|fi|melkein}}, {{t-|fi|aikeissa}}
* French: [[en train]], [[sur le point]]
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[עמד]] ל...</span>
* Italian: {{t+|it|stare per}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ところ|tr=tokoro}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|teqrîben}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|futurus sum|tr=i am about  to be}}, {{qualifier|  used  a verb  in periphastic conjugation}} {{t-|la|iturus sum|tr=i am about to go}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|само што не|tr=sámo što ne|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|mk|штотуку не|tr=štótuku ne|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|på veg til}}
* Portuguese: [[estar preste]], {{t-|pt|prestes a}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|готов|tr=gotóv}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|o}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|a punto}} de
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|på väg att}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|concerning}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عن]]}} (ʻan)
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{tø|arz|عن|tr='an|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|մասին|tr=masin}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|sobre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|關於}}, {{t|cmn|关于}} (guānyú), {{t|cmn|對於}}, {{t|cmn|对于}} (duìyú)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|o}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|om}}, {{t-|da|vedrørende}}, {{t-|da|angående}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|over}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|pri}}
* Finnish: ''([[elative case]])''
* French: [[au sujet]], [[sur]]
* German: {{t+|de|über}}
* Greek: [[για]] (jiá), [[περί]] (perí)
* Italian: {{t-|it|riguardando}}
* Japanese: [[について]](の) (ni tsuite [no])
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ກ່ຽວກັບ|tr=kiaw-kap|sc=Laoo}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|de}}
* Lojban: {{t+|jbo|sera'a}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|за|tr=za|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|mk|околу|tr=ókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay:
*: Rumi: {{t-|ms|tentang}}, {{t-|ms|mengenai}}, {{t-|ms|berkaitan dengan}}, {{t-|ms|berkenaan dengan}}, {{t-|ms|darihal}}
*: Jawi: {{t-|ms|تنتڠ|sc=Arab}}, {{t-|ms|مڠناءي|sc=Arab}}, {{t-|ms|برکاءيتن دڠن|sc=Arab}}, {{t-|ms|برکناءن دڠن|sc=Arab}}, {{t-|ms|دريحال|sc=Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: [[dwar]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|om}}, {{t-|no|angående}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|درباره|alt=دربارۀ|tr=darbâre-ye}}, {{t-|fa|راجع به|tr=râje' be|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|درباب|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|o}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sobre}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|despre}}
* Russian: {{l|ru|о}}/{{t+|ru|об|tr=o / ob}} ''(+ [[prepositional case]])'', {{t+|ru|про|tr=pro}} ''(+ [[accusative case]])''
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mu dheidhinn}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|o}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sobre}}, {{t+|es|acerca de}}, {{t+|es|de}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|om}}, {{t+|sv|angående}}
* Talysh:
*: Asalemi: {{qualifier|+oblique}} {{tø|tly|باره‌کا|tr=bârakâ|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{qualifier|+oblique}} {{tø|tly|خونه‌یی|tr=xunai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hakkında}} ''(+ genitive pronouns, but no endings on nouns)''
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|tefü}}
* Zulu: {{t-|zu|nga-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[me]], [[afër]], [[përreth]], [[për]], [[rrotull]]
* {{ttbc|bn}}: (samparke, byapare, bishaye)<!-- use Bengali script -->
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[sekitar]], [[sekeliling]], [[kira|kira-kira]], [[dekat]], [[tentang]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[super]], [[re]]
* {{ttbc|ku}}: [[dor]], [[li dor]], [[dor]], [[dorî]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|lt}}: [[apie]], [[aplink]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[గురించి]], [[గుఱించి]]
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[về]], [[quanh quất]], [[quanh quẩn đây đó]], [[rải rác]], [[xung quanh]], [[khoảng chừng]], [[vào khoảng]], [[bận]], [[đang làm]], [[ở]], [[trong người]], [[theo với]]
* {{ttbc|vo}}: [[dö]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}

# On all sides; around. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1599''', [[w:Robert Greene (dramatist)|Robert Greene]], ''[[s:Alphonsus King of Aragon|The Comical History of Alphonsus King of Aragon]]'', III-ii,
#*: Why, then, I see, ‘tis time to look '''about''', / When every boy Alphonsus dares control.
# Here and there; around; in one place and another; up and down. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''1769''' ''King James Bible'', Oxford Standard text, ''[[s:Bible (King James)/1 Timothy|1 Timothy]]'', v,13,
#*: And withal they learn to be idle, wandering '''about''' from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
# In [[succession]]; one after another; in the course of events. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# Nearly; [[approximately]]; with close [[correspondence]], in quality, manner, degree, quantity, or time; almost. {{defdate|First attested prior to 1150.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: '''''about''' as cold; '''about''' as high''
#* '''1769''' ''King James Bible'', Oxford Standard text, ''[[s:Bible (King James)/Exodus|Exodus]]'', xxxii,28,
#*: And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day '''about''' three thousand men.
# On the move; active; [[astir]]. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
# [[near|Near]]; in the [[vicinity]]. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
# To a reversed order; half round; facing in the opposite direction; from a contrary point of view. {{defdate|First attested around (1150 to 1350.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''to face '''about'''; to turn one's self '''about'''.''
#* '''1888''', [[w:Horatio Alger, Jr.|Horatio Alger]], ''[[s:The Errand Boy/Chapter XXVIII|The Errand Boy]]'',
#*: Mr. Carter, whose back had been turned, turned '''about''' and faced his niece.
# {{obsolete}} Preparing; [[planning]]. {{defdate|Attested from around (1150 to 1350) until the late 18<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{archaic}} In circuit; [[circularly]]; by a [[circuitous]] way; around the outside; in [[circumference]]. {{defdate|First attested around (1350 to 1470.)}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''a mile '''about''', and a third of a mile across.''
#* '''1886''', Duncan Keith, ''A history of Scotland: civil and ecclesiastical from the earliest times to the death of David I, 1153'', Volume 1,
#*: Nothing daunted, the fleet put to sea, and after sailing '''about''' the island for some time, a landing was effected in the west of Munster.
# {{nautical}} To the opposite [[tack]]. {{defdate|First attested in the late 15<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{chiefly|North America|colloquial}} Going to; on the verge of; intending to. {{defdate|First attested in the early 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''about (adverb)''}}
* [[bring about]]
* [[come about]]
* [[go about]]
* [[how about]]
* [[roundabout]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[set about]]
* [[walkabout]]
* [[what about]]
* [[whereabout]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|on all sides}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|omkring}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ĉirkaŭe}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ympärillä}}, {{t-|fi|ympärille}}
* Greek: [[γύρω]] (jíro)
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]]</span>
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|жөнүндө}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|наоколу|tr=naókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}
* Polish: [[dookoła]], [[wokoło]], [[wokół]]
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|ao redor}}, {{t-|pt|em volta}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вокруг|tr=vokrúg}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|okrog}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alrededor}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|runt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in circuit}}
* Danish: i {{t-|da|omkreds}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ĉirkaŭe}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ympäri}}
* Greek: [[γύρω]] (jíro)
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]]</span>
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|околу|tr=ókolu|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|rundt}}
* Polish: [[wkoło]]
* Russian: [[в окружности]] (v okrúžnosti)
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alrededor}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|runt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|here and there}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|omkring}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond-}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ĉirkaŭe}}
* Finnish: [[siellä]] [[täällä]]
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]], ב[[איזור]], ב[[סביבה]]</span>
* Italian: {{t-|it|intorno}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|ваму-таму|tr=vámu-támu|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[wszędzie]], [[wokoło]], [[tu i tam]], [[tu i ówdzie]]
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|por aí}}
* Russian: [[туда-сюда]] (tudá-s'udá), [[взад-вперёд]] (vzad-vp'er'ód)
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|mun cuairt}}, {{t-|gd|mu chuairt}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alrededor}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|runt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nearly}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|asi}}, {{t+|cs|přibližně}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|cirka}}, {{t-|da|næsten}}, {{t-|da|omkring}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ongeveer}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|proksimume}}, {{t+|eo|ĉirkaŭ}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|noin}}, {{t+|fi|likimain}}, {{t+|fi|suunnilleen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|environ}}
* German: {{t+|de|ungefähr}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σχεδόν}}
* Hebrew: <span dir=rtl>[[בערך]]</span>
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|речиси|tr=réčisi|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|nesten}}
* Polish: [[około]], [[niemal]], [[prawie]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aproximadamente}}, {{t-|pt|cerca de}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|почти|tr=počtí}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|približno}}, {{t-|sl|okoli}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alrededor}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ungefär}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to a reserved position}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|omkring}}
* Dutch: [[om-]]
* Esperanto: [[returnen]]
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|обратно|tr=óbratno|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[wstecz]]
* Russian: [[в обратную сторону]] (v obrátnuju stóronu), [[обратно]] (obrátno)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|o}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[gati]], , [[afërsisht]], [[pothuajse]], [[pranë]], [[nja]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[Cirkum]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[sekitar]], [[sekeliling]], [[kira|kira-kira]], [[dekat]], [[tentang]], [[kena|mengenai]], [[hendak]], [[akan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[xung quanh]], [[quanh quẩn]], [[đây đó]], [[rải rác]], [[đằng sau]], [[khoảng chừng]], [[gần]], [[vòng]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|about|lang=enm}} (adverb).

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Moving around; [[astir]].
#: ''out and '''about'''''; ''up and '''about'''''
#* '''1898''', [[w:J. Meade Falkner|J. Meade Falkner]], ''[[s:Moonfleet/Chapter 3|Moonfleet]]'',
#*: 'John, I have observed that you are often out and '''about''' of nights, sometimes as late as half past seven or eight. ...'
# In existence; being in evidence; [[apparent]];
#* '''1975''', IPC Building & Contract Journals Ltd, ''Highways & road construction'', Volume 43,
#*: To my mind, transportation engineering is similar to flying in the 1930s — it has been '''about''' for some time but it has taken the present economic jolt to shake it out of its infancy, in the same way that the war started the development of flying to its current stage.
#* '''2005''', IDG Communications, ''Digit'', Issues 89-94,
#*: Although it has been '''about''' for some time now, I like the typeface Sauna.
#* '''2006''', Great Britain Parliament: House of Lords Science and Technology Committee, ''Energy: Meeting With Malcolm Wicks MP'',
#*: Is not this sudden interest in capturing CO<sub>2</sub> — and it has been '''about''' for a little while — simply another hidey-hole for the government to creep into?
# Normally active and capable.
#: After my bout with Guillan-Barre Syndrome, it took me 6 months to be up and about again.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|moving around}} [[around]], [[active]], [[mobile]], [[astir]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|man|upon|may|71|about|its|time|only}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[U-boat#English|U-boat]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English degree adverbs]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|technical|lang=fr}} The [[extremity]] of a metallic or wooden [[element]] or piece.

===Anagrams===
* [[bouta#French|bouta]], [[tabou#French|tabou]]

[[am:about]]
[[ar:about]]
[[az:about]]
[[be:about]]
[[cs:about]]
[[da:about]]
[[de:about]]
[[et:about]]
[[el:about]]
[[es:about]]
[[fa:about]]
[[fr:about]]
[[gl:about]]
[[ko:about]]
[[hy:about]]
[[hi:about]]
[[io:about]]
[[id:about]]
[[it:about]]
[[kn:about]]
[[kk:about]]
[[ku:about]]
[[ky:about]]
[[lt:about]]
[[li:about]]
[[jbo:about]]
[[hu:about]]
[[mg:about]]
[[ml:about]]
[[my:about]]
[[nl:about]]
[[ja:about]]
[[no:about]]
[[ps:about]]
[[pl:about]]
[[pt:about]]
[[ro:about]]
[[ru:about]]
[[sm:about]]
[[simple:about]]
[[fi:about]]
[[sv:about]]
[[ta:about]]
[[te:about]]
[[th:about]]
[[chr:about]]
[[tr:about]]
[[uk:about]]
[[vi:about]]
[[zh:about]]