{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|year|dear|high|297|above|received|read|together}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPAchar|/ə-bŭv/}}, (''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]''){{IPA|/əˈbʌv/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"bVv/}}
*: {{IPAchar|[[Rhymes:English:-ʌv|Rhymes: -ʌv]]}}
* {{audio|en-us-above.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[ābufan]]

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; — opposed to ''below'' or ''beneath''.
#* {{rfdate}} translation of [[w:Genesis|Genesis]] 2:20,
#*: Fowl that may fly '''above''' the earth.
# Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; [[surpassing]]; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things ''above'' [[comprehension]]; ''above'' mean actions; conduct ''above'' reproach.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Marlowe|Marlowe]],
#*: Thy worth […] is actions '''above''' my gifts.
#* {{rfdate}} translation of [[w:Acts|Acts]] 36:13,
#*: I saw in the way a light from heaven '''above''' the brightness of the sun.
# [[surpassing|Surpassing]] in number or quantity; more than; as, ''above'' a hundred. (Passing into the [[adverbial]] sense; see adverb #4 below.)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in or to a higher place}}
* Albanian: [[lart]], [[mbi]]
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فوق|sc=Arab|tr=fawqa|alt=فَوقَ}} 
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|فوق|sc=Arab|tr=fawq}} 
* Danish: [[ovenover]], [[ovenpå]], [[oppe over]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|boven}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|yllä}}, {{t-|fi|yläpuolella}}, {{t-|fi|päällä}}
* French: {{t|fr|au-dessus de}}
* German: {{t+|de|über}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מעל|tr=me`ál|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fölött}}, {{t+|hu|felett}}, {{t+|hu|fölé}}, {{t|hu|felé}}
* Japanese: ...{{t|ja|の上に|sc=Jpan}} (...''no ue ni'')(...のうえに)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nad}}
* Russian: [[над]] (nad)
* [[Scots]]: [[abune]], [[aboon]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|nad}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|superior to, surpassing}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|yläpuolella}}
* German: {{t+|de|über}}
* Polish: [[nad]], [[powyżej]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|превыше|tr=pr'evýše|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: [[abune]], [[aboon]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|nad}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|more}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yli}}
* German: {{t+|de|über}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מעל|tr=me`ál|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|свыше|tr=svýše|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: [[abune]], [[aboon]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|nad}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[bo]]
* {{ttbc|Egyptian}}: [[Hry]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[super]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[sopra]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[super]]
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[위에]] (wie)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Maltese}}: [[fuq]]
* {{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[वरती]] (varatī)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[acima]], [[sobre#Portuguese|sobre]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t+|es|sobre}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[över]] (1), [[ovan]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[ibabaw]] (1), [[itaas]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[పైన]] (1), [[మీద]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[üstünde]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[above all]]
* [[above average]]
* [[above one's bend]]
* [[above the law]]
* [[above the salt]]
* [[over and above]]

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# In a higher place; [[overhead]]; into or from heaven.
#: ''He's in a better place now, floating free as the clouds '''''above'''.''
# Earlier in order; higher in the same page; ''hence'', in a [[foregoing]] page.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Dryden|Dryden]],
#*: That was said '''above'''.
# Higher in rank or power.
#: ''He appealed to the court '''above'''.''

====Derived terms====
* "Above" is also used as the first part of a compound in the sense of ''before'', ''previously''; as, ''above''-cited, ''above''-described, ''above''-[[mentioned]], ''above''-named, ''above''said, ''above''specified, ''above''-[[written]], ''above''-[[given]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in a higher place}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[dalt]]
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|i'yijku shana}}
* Finnish: [[ylhäällä]], [[korkealla]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|höher}}, {{t+|de|über}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fent}}, {{t|hu|felül}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zgoraj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|earlier in order}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|yllä}}, {{t-|fi|edellä}}
* German: {{t+|de|früher}}, {{t+|de|vorher}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выше|tr=výše|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zgoraj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|higher in rank}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ylempänä}}, {{t-|fi|yläpuolella}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|ranghöher}}, {{t+|de|vorgesetzt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[bo]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[pair]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[super le par]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[sopra par]] (''golf'')
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[par]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[igualdad]]
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[trên đầu]], [[trên đỉnh đầu]], [[ở trên]], [[trên thiên đường]], [[lên trên]], [[ngược dòng]], [[lên gác]], [[trên]], [[hơn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# '''Above''' is often used [[elliptical]]ly as an adjective by [[omit]]ting the word ''said'', ''mentioned'', ''quoted'', or the like:
#* the '''above'''(-said) observations
#* the '''above'''(-cited) reference
#* the '''above'''(-quoted) articles

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# '''Above''' is often used further [[elliptical]]ly as a noun by omitting the noun, where it is should be clear what is omitted.
#: See the '''above'''.

====Related terms====
* [[abovesaid]]
* [[aboves'd]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|above-mentioned}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|yllä mainittu}}, {{t-|fi|edellä mainittu}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|fentemlített}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|вышеупомянутый|tr=vyšeupom'ánutyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[am:above]]
[[ar:above]]
[[zh-min-nan:above]]
[[da:above]]
[[et:above]]
[[es:above]]
[[fa:above]]
[[fr:above]]
[[fy:above]]
[[gl:above]]
[[ko:above]]
[[hy:above]]
[[io:above]]
[[id:above]]
[[it:above]]
[[ku:above]]
[[lt:above]]
[[hu:above]]
[[ml:above]]
[[nl:above]]
[[ja:above]]
[[pl:above]]
[[pt:above]]
[[sm:above]]
[[simple:above]]
[[fi:above]]
[[sv:above]]
[[ta:above]]
[[te:above]]
[[th:above]]
[[vi:above]]
[[chr:above]]
[[tr:above]]
[[uk:above]]
[[zh:above]]