==English==

===Etymology===
First attested in the mid 15th century. From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|a||on|lang=enm}} + {{term|brest||breast|lang=enm}}, in sense “breasts (chests) in line, side-by-side and exactly equally advanced”;<ref name="oetyld">{{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}}</ref> roughly “breast-by-breast”. Other senses of “equally advanced” developed metaphorically. Phrase ''keep abreast'' “keep informed, up to the same level as oneself” is from the 1650s.<ref name="oetyld" />

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbɹɛst/}}
* {{audio|en-us-abreast.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# Informed, well-informed, familiar, acquainted
# Side by side, facing forward
#* '''2012''', July 15. Richard Williams in Guardian Unlimited, [http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/jul/15/tour-de-france-2012-bradley-wiggins Tour de France 2012: Carpet tacks cannot force Bradley Wiggins off track]
#*: On Sunday afternoon it was as dark as night, with barely room for two riders '''abreast''' on a gradient that touches 20%.
#:* Two men could hardly walk '''abreast'''. - [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]]
# {{context|nautical}} Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the [[vessel]]'s beam.
# Up to a certain level or line; [[equally]] advanced; as, to keep '''abreast''' of [or with] the present state of science.
# {{context|obsolete}}: At the same time; [[simultaneously]]
#:* '''Abreast''' [[therewith]] began a [[convocation]]. - {{w|Thomas Fuller}}

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|nautical}} Abreast is followed by the word '''of'''.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|informed}} {{l|en|apprised}}, {{l|en|up to date}}/{{l|en|up-to-date}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|informed}}
* Dutch: [[op de hoogte]], [[bekend]], [[goed ingelicht]], [[welingelicht]]
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kursis}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tietoinen}}, [[ajan tasalla]]
* French: {{t+|fr|au courant}}
* German: [[auf dem Laufenden]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[essere aggiornato]], [[stare al passo]] (con i [[tempi]], con le [[notizie]]), [[mantenersi al corrente]]
* Portuguese: [[bem]] [[informado]]
* Spanish: [[al corriente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|side by side}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|редом}}, [[един до друг]], [[на един ред]], [[рамо до рамо]]
* Dutch: [[zij aan zij]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rinnakkain}}, {{t-|fi|vierekkäin}}, {{t-|fi|vierivieressä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|côte à côte}}
* German: {{t-|de|beieinander}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|affiancato}}, [[di pari passo]]
* Polish: [[obok siebie]]
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|lado a lado}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|в ряд}}, {{t-|ru|на одной линии}}
* Spanish: [[de lado a lado]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the vessel's beam}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kyljittäin}}
* Italian: [[al traverso]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|на одной линии}}, {{t-|ru|на траверзе}}, {{t-|ru|борт о борт}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|up to a certain level or line}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tasalla}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[in fila lateral]] (2)
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[đi sóng hàng với nhau]], [[theo kịp thời đại]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# Abreast of; alongside.<ref>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Gove, Philip Babcock    | others =  | title = Webster's Third International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged | origdate =  | origyear = 1909 | origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition =  | date =  | year =1976  | month =  | publisher =G. & C. Merriam Co.  | location = Springfield, MA | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =0-87779-101-5 | lccn = | ol = | pages =5| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>
#: This ship sank '''abreast''' the island.
===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[abaters#English|abaters]]

[[am:abreast]]
[[ar:abreast]]
[[et:abreast]]
[[fa:abreast]]
[[ko:abreast]]
[[hi:abreast]]
[[io:abreast]]
[[kn:abreast]]
[[ka:abreast]]
[[hu:abreast]]
[[ml:abreast]]
[[my:abreast]]
[[ps:abreast]]
[[pl:abreast]]
[[pt:abreast]]
[[ru:abreast]]
[[simple:abreast]]
[[fi:abreast]]
[[sv:abreast]]
[[ta:abreast]]
[[te:abreast]]
[[th:abreast]]
[[tr:abreast]]
[[uk:abreast]]
[[vi:abreast]]
[[zh:abreast]]