==English==
{{Webster 1913}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[abridgement]]

===Etymology===
First attested in 1494. From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|abrygement|lang=enm}},<ref>{{R:RHCD|page=5}}</ref> from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|abregement|abrégement|lang=enm}}.<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=8}}</ref> Equivalent to {{suffix|abridge|ment|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbɹɪd͡ʒ.mn̩t/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|US|lang=en}} The act of [[abridging]], or the state of being [[abridged]]; [[diminution]]; [[lessening]]; reduction or [[deprivation]]; as, an '''abridgment''' of pleasures or of [[expenses]]. {{defdate|First attested from around (1350 to 1470).}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{context|US|lang=en}} An [[epitome]] or [[compend]], as of a book; a [[shortened]] or abridged form; an [[abbreviation]]. {{defdate|First attested from around (1350 to 1470).}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* '''22 March 2012''', Scott Tobias, AV Club ''The Hunger Games''[http://www.avclub.com/articles/the-hunger-games,71293/]
#*: When the goal is simply to be as faithful as possible to the material—as if a movie were a marriage, and a rights contract the vow—the best result is a skillful '''abridgment''', one that hits all the important marks without losing anything egregious. 
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} That which [[abridges]] or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that makes the time pass quickly
#* What '''abridgment''' have you for this evening? What masque? what music? - Shakespeare, ''Midsummer Night's Dream, V-i''
# {{context|dated|legal|lang=en}} Any of various brief statements of [[case law]] made before modern reporting of legal cases.

====Usage notes====
* In current usage this spelling is about as common as {{term|abridgement}} in the US, but much less common in the UK.
* Notes on near-synonyms:
** An ''abridgment'' is made by [[omitting]] the less important parts of some larger work; as, an ''abridgment'' of a [[dictionary]].
** A [[compendium]] is a brief [[exhibition]] of a subject, or science, for common use; as, a ''compendium'' of American literature.
** An [[epitome]] corresponds to a ''compendium'', and gives [[briefly]] the most material points of a subject; as, an ''epitome'' of history.
** An [[abstract]] is a brief statement of a thing in its main points.
** A [[synopsis]] is a [[bird's-eye]] view of a subject, or work, in its several parts.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|act of abridging}} [[compendium]], [[epitome]], [[abstract]], [[synopsis]], [[précis]]

====Related terms====
* [[abridge]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of abridging}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|bekorting}}, {{t+|nl|verkorting}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|giorrachadh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|shortened version.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-check|bg|късяване|alt=скъсяване|sc=Cyrl}} {{attention|bg|2=was "с[[късяване]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}, {{t+|bg|съкращение}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|[[ingekorte]] [[versie]]}} {{attention|nl|2=was "ingekorte versie" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}, {{t+|nl|uittreksel}}, {{t-check|nl|[[korte]] [[inhoud]]}} {{attention|nl|2=was "korte inhoud." - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* German: {{t+|de|Auszug|m}}, {{t+|de|Kurzfassung|f}}, {{t+|de|Kurzform|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|要約|tr=ようやく, yōyaku}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|giorrachadh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state of being abridged}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-check|bg|ограничение|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-check|bg|[[лишаване]] [[от]] [[права]]|sc=Cyrl}} {{attention|bg|2=was "лишаване от права" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* Dutch: {{t-needed|nl}}
* German: {{t+check|de|Kürzung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|縮小|tr=shukushō}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|giorrachadh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|raccourcissement}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|abbreviation}}, {{t-check|ia|compendio}}, {{t-check|ia|summario}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|ompendio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-check|no|forkortelse|c|n}} [[utdrag]]
* Portuguese: {{t-check|pt|compendio|m}}, {{t-check|pt|compêndio|m}}, {{t-check|pt|abreviação|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|abreviación}}, {{t-check|es|compendio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[ar:abridgment]]
[[hy:abridgment]]
[[io:abridgment]]
[[kn:abridgment]]
[[ml:abridgment]]
[[pl:abridgment]]
[[pt:abridgment]]
[[ru:abridgment]]
[[simple:abridgment]]
[[fi:abridgment]]
[[sv:abridgment]]
[[ta:abridgment]]
[[th:abridgment]]
[[chr:abridgment]]
[[vi:abridgment]]