==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{F.}} ''absent'', from {{L.}} ''absent-'', the stem of ''[[absentis]]'', present participle of ''[[abesse]]'', "to be away from", formed from ''[[ab]]'' + ''[[esse]]'' "to be".

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{AHD|ăb'sənt}}, {{IPA|/ˈæbsənt/}}, {{SAMPA|/{bs@nt/}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Being [[away]] from a place; [[withdrawn]] from a place; not [[present]].
#:''Expecting ''absent'' friends.''  -{{Shak.}}, ''All's Well That Ends Well, II-iii''
# Not [[exist]]ing; [[lack]]ing; as, the part was [[rudimental]] or ''absent''.
# [[inattentive|Inattentive]] to what is passing; [[absent-minded]]; [[preoccupied]]; as, an ''absent'' air.
#:''What is commonly called an ''absent'' man is commonly either a very weak or a very affected man.''  -Chesterfield

=====Synonyms=====
*[[Absent]], [[Abstracted]]. These words both [[imply]] a want of attention to surrounding objects. 
*We speak of a man as ''absent'' when his thoughts wander [[unconsciously]] from present [[scenes]] or [[topics]] of discourse; 
*We speak of him as ''abstracted'' when his mind (usually for a brief period) is drawn off from present things by some [[weighty]] matter for reflection. 
*''Absence'' of mind is usually the result of loose habits of thought; 
*''Abstraction'' commonly [[arises]] either from [[engrossing]] interests and cares, or from [[unfortunate]] habits of association.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|being away from a place}}
*Dutch: [[afwezig]], [[weg]]
*Greek: [[απών]] (apón) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[assente]]
*Portuguese: [[ausente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not existing}}
*Dutch: [[afwezig]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[assente]]
*Portuguese: [[ausente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|inattentive}}
*Dutch: [[afwezig]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[assente]]
*Portuguese: [[ausente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{rfc-trans}}
{{trans-top|absent}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[缺席]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: absent
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[abwesend]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[absenta]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[absen]], [[tidak]] [[hadir]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[absente]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[欠席]] (けっせき, kesseki)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[absens]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[fraværende]]
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[absenti]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[ausente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{OF.}} and modern {{F.}} ''[[absenter]]'' or from {{LL.}} ''[[absentare]]'' "keep away", "be away".

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{AHD|ăbsĕnt'}}, {{IPA|/æbˈsɛnt/}}, {{SAMPA|{b"sEnt}}

====Preposition====
{{en-prep}}

# [[without]]
#:''The gross value represents returns '''absent''' both taxation and interest on the investment's cash component.''

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[go away]] from a place; to [[leave]] -- used with the [[reflexive]] pronoun.
#:*If after due summons any member ''absents'' himself, he is to be fined. - Addison
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[withhold]] from being present
#:*Go; for thy stay, not free, ''absents'' thee more. - Milton

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to leave}}
* Bahasa Malaysia: [[pergi]]
* Dutch: [[zich verwijderen]] (van)
{{trans-mid}}
*Greek:
*:Modern: [[απουσιάζω]]
*:Classical: [[ἅπειμι]]
*Portuguese: [[ausentar|ausentar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be not present}}
* Dutch: [[afwezig]] [[zijn]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Greek:
*:Modern: [[λείπω]], [[απουσιάζω]]
*:Classical: [[ἅπειμι]]
*Portuguese: [[ausentar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[am:absent]]
[[ar:absent]]
[[de:absent]]
[[et:absent]]
[[el:absent]]
[[fa:absent]]
[[fr:absent]]
[[gl:absent]]
[[io:absent]]
[[it:absent]]
[[hu:absent]]
[[nl:absent]]
[[pt:absent]]
[[ru:absent]]
[[fi:absent]]
[[sv:absent]]
[[ta:absent]]
[[vi:absent]]
[[uk:absent]]
[[zh:absent]]