{{also|Absolute}}
==English==
{{rfc}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[abs.]]

===Etymology===
First attested around 1380. From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|absolut}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{m|frm|absolut}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|absolūtus||unconditional; unfettered; completed}}, perfect passive participle of {{m|la|absolvō||loosen, set free, complete}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|ab||away}} + {{m|la|solvo||to loose}}.<ref name=AHD>{{R:American Heritage 1971|page=5}}</ref> Influenced in part by {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fr|absolu}}.<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=9}}</ref> Compare ''[[absolve]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈæb.səˌluːt/|/ˈæb.səˌlʲut/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈæb.səˌlut/|lang=en}} <small>''(noun or adjective)''</small>; {{IPA|/ˌæb.səˈlut/||lang=en}} <small>''(noun only)''</small>
* {{audio|en-us-absolute.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-uk-Absolute.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|more|er}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} [[absolve|Absolved]]; free. {{defdate|Attested from around 1350 to 1470 until the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=9}}</ref> <!--- All dates from same source, but citations removed from end of definitions to reduce clutter. -->
# {{label|en|obsolete}} Disengaged from accidental circumstances. {{defdate|Attested from around 1350 until 1470.}}
# {{label|en|archaic}} [[complete|Complete]] in [[itself]]; [[perfect]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#*: So '''absolute''' she seems, And in herself complete.
# {{label|en|grammar}} Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
## {{label|en|of a case form}} Syntactically connected to the rest of the sentence in an [[atypical]] manner; [[ablative absolute]]; [[nominative absolute]]; [[genitive absolute]]; [[accusative absolute]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
## Standing by itself in a loose syntactical connection, and qualifying the sentence as a whole rather than any single word in it. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
##: Anyhow in 'anyhow, I made it home' is an '''absolute'''.
## {{label|en|of an adjective or possessive pronoun}} Lacking a modified [[substantive]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
##: Hungry in 'Feed the hungry.'
## {{label|en|comparative|superlative}} Expressing a relative term without a definite comparison.'{{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
##: Older in 'An older person should be treated with respect.
## {{label|en|transitive}} Having no [[direct object]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
##: Kill in 'If looks could kill...'
## {{label|en|Irish|Welsh}} An [[inflected]] verb that is not preceded by any number of [[article]]s or compounded with a [[preverb]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}
# {{label|en|obsolete}} Absorbed in, as an occupation. {{defdate|Attested only in the late 15<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# Pure; [[unmixed]]; as, ''absolute'' alcohol. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# {{label|en|figurative}} Complete; [[utter]]; outright; [[unmitigated]]; entire; total; not qualified or diminished in any way; unrestricted; without limitation. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}
#: When caught, he told an '''absolute''' lie.
# [[unconditional|Unconditional]]; free from any [[condition]]s, [[limitation]]s, and [[relation]]s; {{defdate|First attested in the late 15<sup>th</sup> century.}}
## Having [[unlimited]] power, without limits set by a constitution, parliament, or other means; independent in ownership or authority. {{defdate|First attested in the late 15<sup>th</sup> century.}}
## [[absolutist|Absolutist]]; arbitrary; [[despotic]]. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}
## Proceeding from or characteristic of an absolute ruler. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}
#* '''1962''', Hannah Arendt, ''On Revolution'', (1990), page 155:
#*: {{...}} the more '''absolute''' the ruler, the more '''absolute''' the revolution will be which replaces him.
# [[authoritative|Authoritative]]; [[peremptory]].
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Elizabeth Barrett Browning|Elizabeth Barrett Browning]]:
#*: The peddler stopped, and tapped her on the head, With ''absolute'' forefinger, brown and ringed.
# Positive; unquestionable; [[peremptory]]. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# Real; actual. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# {{label|en|archaic}} Certain; free from doubt or uncertainty, as a person or prediction. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}
#* {{rfdate}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Cymbeline'', Act 4, Scene 2:
#*: I am '''absolute''' ’t was very Cloten.
# Free from conditional limitations; operating or existing in full under all circumstances without variation. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# {{label|en|legal}} Complete; unconditional; final; without [[encumbrance]]s; not liable to change or cancellation.
# {{label|en|philosophy}} Existing, able to be thought of, or able to be viewed without relation to other things. {{defdate|First attested in the late 18<sup>th</sup> century.}}
#: '''''absolute''' motion''
#: '''''absolute''' time or space''
#: '''''Absolute''' rights and duties are such as pertain to man in a state of nature as contradistinguished from ''relative'' rights and duties, or such as pertain to him in his social relations.''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:William Hamilton|William Hamilton]]:
#*: To Cusa we can indeed articulately trace, word and thing, the recent philosophy of ''the absolute''.
# {{label|en|philosophy}} Fundamental; ultimate; intrinsic; free from the variability and error natural to the human way of thinking and perception. {{defdate|First attested in the late 18<sup>th</sup> century.}}
# {{label|en|physics}} Independent of arbitrary units of measurement not comparative or [[relative]].
## Having reference to or derived from the simplest manner from the fundamental units of mass, time, and length.
## Relating to the absolute temperature scale.
# {{label|en|education}} Pertaining to a grading system based on the knowledge of the individual and not on the comparative knowledge of the group of students.
# {{label|en|art}} Concerned entirely with expressing beauty and feelings, lacking meaningful reference.
# {{label|en|dance}} Utilizing the body to express ideas, independent of music and costumes.
# {{label|en|math}} As measured using an [[absolute value]].
#: '''''absolute''' deviation''
#: '''''absolute''' square''
#: ''mean '''absolute''' difference''
# {{label|en|math}} Indicating an expression that is true for all [[real number]]; unconditional.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from "absolute"}}
* [[ablative absolute]]
* [[absolute address]]
* [[absolute curvature]] <!-- that [[curvature]] of a curve of double curvature, which is measured in the [[osculating]] plane of the curve. -->
* [[absolute equation]] <!-- the sum of the [[optic]] and [[eccentric]] [[equations]]. -->
* [[absolute magnitude]]
* [[absolute majority]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[absolute monarchy]]
* [[absolute music]] <!-- music written for its own sake, with no direct reference to anything outside itself. It has no words and does not depict a story. -->
* [[absolute pitch]]
* [[absolute power]]
* [[absolute space]] <!-- space considered without relation to material limits or objects. -->
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[absolute term]] <!-- such as are known, or which do not contain the unknown quantity. -->
* [[absolute temperature]]
* [[absolute value]]
* [[absolute zero]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|free from any conditions, limitations, and relations}} [[categorical]], [[unconditional]], [[unlimited]], [[unrestricted]]
* {{sense|having unlimited power}} [[autocratic]], [[despotic]]
* {{sense|complete in itself}} [[fixed]]
* {{sense|able to be viewed without relation to other things}} [[independent]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|free from any conditions, limitations, and relations}} [[conditional]], [[limited]]
* {{sense|able to be viewed without relation to other things}} [[relative]], [[dependent]]

====Related terms====
* [[absolution]]
* [[absoluteness]]
* [[absolutize]]
* [[absolutization]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|loosed from any conditions or limitations}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|абсалю́тны|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|безусловен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|絕對|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|绝对|tr=juéduì|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|無條件|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|absolutní}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|vaba}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ehdoton}}, {{t+|fi|rajoittamaton}}, {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absolu}}
* German: {{t+|de|absolut}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απόλυτος|m}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|absoluta}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|baku}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|絶対|tr=zettai no|alt=絶対の|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|絶対的|tr=zettaiteki na|alt=絶対的な|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|無条件|tr=mujōken no|alt=無条件の|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|absoluto}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|absolūts}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|mutlak}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|ard-phooaral}}, {{qualifier|of a ruler}} {{t|gv|ard-chummaghtagh}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|غیر مشروط|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezwzględny}}, {{t+|pl|bezwarunkowy}}, {{t+|pl|absolutny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ilimitado}}, {{t|pt|irrestrito}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|ceannasach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|absoluto}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|absolut}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|wagas}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|mutlak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|необме́жений}}, {{t+|uk|абсолю́тний}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|complete in itself, fixed}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пълен}}, {{t+|bg|абсолютен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|absolutní}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volkomen}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|täielik}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|täydellinen}}, {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absolu}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|absoluta}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|絶対|tr=zettai no|alt=絶対の|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|絶対的|tr=zettaiteki na|alt=絶対的な|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|揺るぎない|tr=yuruginai|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|自己完結|tr=jiko-kanketsu no|alt=自己完結の|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کامل|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}, {{t+|ru|соверше́нный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|iomlan}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|completo}}, {{t|es|pleno}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|absolut}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|mükemmel}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|цілковитий}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with other objects}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абсолютен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}, {{t+|nl|volstrekt}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absolu}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|absoluta}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|絶対|tr=zettai no|alt=絶対の|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|絶対的|tr=zettaiteki na|alt=絶対的な|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|独立|tr=dokuritsu shita|alt=独立した|sc=Jpan}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ڕه‌به‌ق|tr=rrebeq|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|absoluto}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|absolut}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|mutlak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|loosed from any other being or comparison}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пълен}}, {{t+|bg|неограничен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}, {{t+|fi|riippumaton}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absolu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|absoluta}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tersendiri}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|無比|tr=muhi no|alt=無比の|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абсолютен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|absolutní}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absolu}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|絶対|tr=zettai no|alt=絶対の|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|絶対的|tr=zettaiteki na|alt=絶対的な|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|無比|tr=muhi no|alt=無比の|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|独立|tr=dokuritsu shita|alt=独立した|sc=Jpan}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pūrawa}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rare: positive; clear}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jistý}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}, {{t|nl|onbetwistbaar}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ehdottoman}} {{t+|fi|varma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mutlak}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|certo}}, {{t+|pt|inquestionável}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cinnteach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rare: authoritative; peremptory}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|самовластен}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}, {{t+|nl|autoritair}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|peremptório}}, {{t+|pt|definitivo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|chemistry: pure; unmixed}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|чист, без примес}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|čistý}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}, {{t|nl|onvermengd}}, {{t+|nl|rein}}, {{t+|nl|puur}}, {{t|nl|onversneden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}, {{t+|fi|puhdas}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|純粋|tr=junsui na|alt=純粋な|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dearbh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar: not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|absolut|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absoluut}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́тный}}, {{t+|ru|обосо́бленный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|lethoireach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Esperanto: {{t+check|eo|nepra}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|absolu}}
* German: {{t+check|de|absolut}}
* Hebrew: {{t-check|he|מוחלט|m|tr=mukhlat'|sc=Hebr}}, {{t-check|he|מוחלטת|f|tr=mukhlet'et|sc=Hebr}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|mutlak}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|absolute}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-check|ga|absalóideach}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|assoluto}}
* Korean: {{t-check|ko|무제한의|tr=mujehan-ui|sc=Kore}}
* Novial: {{t-check|nov|absoluti}}
* Turkish: {{t+check|tr|kesin}}
* Volapük: {{t-check|vo|leverik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# That which is independent of context-dependent interpretation, inviolate, fundamental. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 19<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''moral '''absolutes'''''
# Anything that is absolute. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 19<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{label|en|geometry}} In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at [[infinity]]; in space of three [[dimensions]], the imaginary circle at infinity.
# {{label|en|philosophy|usually capitalized}} A realm which exists without reference to anything else; that which can be imagined purely by itself; [[absolute ego]].
#* '''1983''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''Sebastian'', Faber & Faber 2004 (''Avignon Quintet''), page 1039:
#*: Withdrawn as a Buddha he sat, watching the alien world from his perch in the '''absolute'''.
# {{label|en|philosophy|usually capitalized}} The unity of [[spirit]] and [[nature]]; [[God]].
# {{label|en|philosophy|usually capitalized}} The whole of reality; the totality to which everything is reduced.
# Concentrated natural flower oil, used for perfumes.

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|not dependent on anything else}} Usually preceded by the word '''the'''.
* {{sense|all|philosophy}} Usually preceded by the word '''the'''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|that which is independent of context-dependent interpretation}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absolute|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absoluuttinen}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|absolutt|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absoluto|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсолю́т|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(geometry)''}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|absolu|m}}
* Irish: {{t-check|ga|absalóid|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t-check|tr|pozitif}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
<references/>

===External links===
* {{projectlink|Wikipedia|Absolute}}
* {{projectlink|Collier's|Absolute}}

===Anagrams===
* [[bales out#English|bales out]]

[[Category:en:Adjectives]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-absolute.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj-form}}

# {{nl-adj form of|infl|absoluut}}

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/absoˈlute/|lang=eo}}

===Adverb===
{{eo-head}}

# [[absolutely]]

----

==German==

===Adjective===
{{head|de|adjective form}}

# {{de-inflected form of|absolut}}

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
From {{m|la|absolūtus||complete, finished}}.

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|absolut|absolūt|e}}

# [[absolutely]], [[completely]], [[fully]]

====Related terms====
* [[absolutus|absolūtus]]

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}

----

==Swedish==

===Adjective===
{{head|sv|adjective form}}

# {{sv-adj-form-abs-def-m|absolut}}

[[am:absolute]]
[[ar:absolute]]
[[be:absolute]]
[[ca:absolute]]
[[cs:absolute]]
[[cy:absolute]]
[[de:absolute]]
[[et:absolute]]
[[el:absolute]]
[[es:absolute]]
[[fa:absolute]]
[[fr:absolute]]
[[gl:absolute]]
[[ko:absolute]]
[[hy:absolute]]
[[hi:absolute]]
[[io:absolute]]
[[id:absolute]]
[[it:absolute]]
[[kn:absolute]]
[[ku:absolute]]
[[lo:absolute]]
[[la:absolute]]
[[lv:absolute]]
[[lt:absolute]]
[[li:absolute]]
[[hu:absolute]]
[[mg:absolute]]
[[ml:absolute]]
[[my:absolute]]
[[nl:absolute]]
[[ja:absolute]]
[[no:absolute]]
[[uz:absolute]]
[[ps:absolute]]
[[pl:absolute]]
[[pt:absolute]]
[[ru:absolute]]
[[sa:absolute]]
[[simple:absolute]]
[[fi:absolute]]
[[sv:absolute]]
[[tl:absolute]]
[[ta:absolute]]
[[te:absolute]]
[[th:absolute]]
[[chr:absolute]]
[[tr:absolute]]
[[uk:absolute]]
[[vi:absolute]]
[[vo:absolute]]
[[zh:absolute]]