==English==

===Etymology===
First attested in 1600. From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|abstēmius||abstaining from wine}}; from {{term|ab||lang=la}}, {{term|abs||from|lang=la}} + {{m|la|tēmus}}, root of {{m|la|tēmētum||[[intoxicating]] drink, mead, wine}}, akin to {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|dämlich||stupid, silly|lang=de}}, {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|þám||mugginess|lang=non}}, {{etyl|sga|-}} {{term|tám||death|lang=sga}}, {{etyl|sa|-}} {{term|ताम्यति||he becomes stunned, exhausted|tr=tāmyati|lang=sa}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/æbˈstiː.mɪ.əs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/æbˈsti.mi.əs/|/əbˈsti.mi.əs/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːmiəs|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[sparing|Sparing]] in diet; [[refraining]] from a free use of food and strong drinks; [[temperate]]; [[abstinent]]; [[sparing]] in the [[indulgence]] of the appetite or passions. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=9}}</ref>
#* Instances of longevity are chiefly among the '''abstemious''' - [[w:John Arbuthnot|John Arbuthnot]].
#* Under his special eye '''Abstemious''' I grew up and thrived amain. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
#* '''1919''', [[w:William Somerset Maugham|W. Somerset Maugham]], ''[[w:The Moon and Sixpence|The Moon and Sixpence]]'', [[s:The Moon and Sixpence/Chapter XXVIII|chapter 28]]
#*: In the dimness of the landing I could not see him very well, but there was something in his voice that surprised me. I knew he was of '''abstemious''' habit or I should have thought he had been drinking.
# [[sparing|Sparingly]] used; used with [[temperance]] or [[moderation]]. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* an '''abstemious''' diet - [[w:Edward Gibbon|Edward Gibbon]]
# Marked by, or [[spent]] in, [[abstinence]]; as, an ''abstemious'' life.
#* One '''abstemious''' day. - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]
#* '''1826''', [[w:Mary Shelley|Mary Shelley]], ''[[w:The Last Man|The Last Man]]'', Chapter 5
#*: [...] when I, '''abstemious''' naturally, and rendered so by the fever that preyed on me, was forced to recruit myself with food.
# {{context|rare|lang=en}} [[promotive|Promotive]] of [[abstemiousness]].
#* Such is the virtue of the '''abstemious''' well. - [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
* {{seeCites}}

====Synonyms====
[[abstentious]], [[abstinent]], [[continent]], [[abnegating|self-abnegating]], [[self-denying]], [[sober]], [[temperate]]

====Derived terms====
* [[abstemiousness]]
* [[unabstemious]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|abstaining from wine}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|abstemi}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|sober}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|sobrema}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|astemio}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возде́ржанный}}, {{t+|ru|уме́ренный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sobrio}}, {{t+|es|abstemio}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|nykter}}, {{t|sv|avhållsam}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sparing in diet}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|въздъ̀ржан}}, {{t+|bg|скро́мен}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl| matig}}, {{t+|nl|karig}}, {{t|nl|frugaal}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|禁欲的|tr=きんよくてき, kinyokuteki|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возде́ржанный}}, {{t+|ru|уме́ренный}}, {{t+|ru|скро́мный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sobrio|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|återhållsam}}, {{t|sv|måttfull}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пестелив}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|有節制|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|有节制|tr=yǒujiézhì|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|sober}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|검소한|sc=Hani}}, {{t|ko|절제하는|sc=Hani}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бережли́вый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abstemio}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|återhållsam}}, {{t|sv|måttfull}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|marked by, or spent in, abstinence}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|abstemi}}
* Danish: {{t|da|afholdende}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|abstinent}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abstemio}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|återhållsam}}, {{t|sv|måttfull}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|promotive of abstemiousness}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-check|bg|въздържан}}, {{t-check|bg|умерен}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English words that use all vowels in alphabetical order]]

[[ar:abstemious]]
[[ca:abstemious]]
[[et:abstemious]]
[[fa:abstemious]]
[[fr:abstemious]]
[[gl:abstemious]]
[[ko:abstemious]]
[[hy:abstemious]]
[[it:abstemious]]
[[kn:abstemious]]
[[ku:abstemious]]
[[hu:abstemious]]
[[mg:abstemious]]
[[ml:abstemious]]
[[mr:abstemious]]
[[my:abstemious]]
[[nl:abstemious]]
[[ja:abstemious]]
[[ps:abstemious]]
[[pl:abstemious]]
[[ru:abstemious]]
[[fi:abstemious]]
[[sv:abstemious]]
[[ta:abstemious]]
[[te:abstemious]]
[[th:abstemious]]
[[tr:abstemious]]
[[vi:abstemious]]
[[zh:abstemious]]