==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1599.
* From {{etyl|la}} {{term|abstrusus|abstrūsus|hidden, concealed|lang=la}}, the perfect passive participle of {{term|abstrudo|abstrūdō|thrust away, conceal|lang=la}}; itself from {{term|ab|lang=la}}, {{term|abs||away|lang=la}} + {{term|trudo|trūdō|thrust, push|lang=la}}.
* Cognate with French {{term|abstrus|lang=fr}} and German {{term|abstrus|lang=de}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/æb.ˈstruːs/|/əb.ˈstruːs/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/æb.ˈstrus/|/əb.ˈstrus/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|abstrus|er|more}}

# [[remote]] from [[apprehension]]; [[difficult]] to [[comprehend]] or [[understand]]; [[recondite]]; [[obscure]]; as in '''abstruse''' learning.
#* '''1548''', Bishop John Hooper, ''A Declaration of the Ten Holy Comaundementes of Almygthye God'', Chapter 17 Curiosity, Page 218:
#*: ...at the end of his cogitacions, fyndithe more '''abstruse''', and doutfull obiections then at the beginning...
#* '''1748''', David Hume, ''Enquiries concerning the human understanding and concerning the principles of moral.'' London: Oxford University Press, 1973. § 13.
#*: It is certain that the easy and obvious philosophy will always, with the generality of mankind, have the preference above the accurate and '''abstruse''';
# {{context|obsolete}} [[conceal]]ed or [[hidden]] out of the way or secret.
#* '''1612''', Thomas Shelton translator Miguel de Cervantes, ''The History of the Valorous and Wittie Knight-Errant Don-Quixote of the Mancha'', Part 4, Chapter 15 Which speaks of that which after befell in the Inne; and of sundry other things worthy to be knowne, Page 500:
#*: O who is he that could carrie newes to our olde father, that thou wert but aliue, although thou wert hidden in the most '''abstruse''' dungeons of Barbarie; for his riches, my brothers and mine would fetch thee from thence.
#* The eternal eye whose sight discerns '''Abstrusest''' thoughts. — [[:w:Milton|John Milton]]. ''Paradise Lost'' '''1667'''
#* Profound and '''abstruse''' topics. - [[w:Henry Hart Milman|Henry Hart Milman]]. ''History of Latin Christianity'' '''1855'''

====Derived terms====
* [[abstrusely]]
* [[abstruseness]]

====Related terms====
* [[abstrude]]
* [[abstrusion]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|difficult to comprehend}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|неясен}},  {{t|bg|труден за разбиране}}
* Dutch: [[onbevattelijk]], [[ondoorgrondelijk]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vaikeaselkoinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|astruso}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abstruso|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|abstruso|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|concealed}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|скрит}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verborgen}}, [[versluierd]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[abstrus]], [[unfaßbar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{head|fr|adjective}}

# feminine inflection of [[abstrus]]

===Anagrams===
* [[arbustes#French|arbustes]]

----

==Latin==

===Participle===
{{la-part-form|abstrūse}}

# {{inflection of|abstrusus|abstrūsus|voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[am:abstruse]]
[[ar:abstruse]]
[[et:abstruse]]
[[fa:abstruse]]
[[fr:abstruse]]
[[ko:abstruse]]
[[io:abstruse]]
[[it:abstruse]]
[[kn:abstruse]]
[[hu:abstruse]]
[[ml:abstruse]]
[[my:abstruse]]
[[ps:abstruse]]
[[pl:abstruse]]
[[pt:abstruse]]
[[ru:abstruse]]
[[fi:abstruse]]
[[sv:abstruse]]
[[ta:abstruse]]
[[te:abstruse]]
[[th:abstruse]]
[[tr:abstruse]]
[[uk:abstruse]]
[[vi:abstruse]]
[[zh:abstruse]]