==English==
{{wikipedia|Abstraction (disambiguation)|Abstraction}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|abstraccyone}}; either from {{der|en|frm|abstraction}} or from {{der|en|ML.|abstrāctiō|t=separation}}, from {{der|en|la|abstrahō|t=draw away}}. Equivalent to {{af|en|abstract|-ion}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/əbˈstɹæk.ʃn̩/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/æbˈstɹæk.ʃn̩/|/əbˈstɹæk.ʃn̩/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-abstraction.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The act of [[abstracting]], separating, [[withdrawing]], or taking away; [[withdrawal]]; the state of being taken away. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=10}}</ref>
#* '''1848''', [[w:John Stuart Mill|J. S. Mill]], ''Principles of Political Economy with some of their Applications to Social Philosophy'':
#*: The cancelling of the debt would be no destruction of wealth, but a transfer of it: a wrongful '''abstraction''' of wealth from certain members of the community, for the profit of the government, or of the tax-payers.
## {{lb|en|euphemistic}} The taking [[surreptitiously]] for one's own use part of the property of another; [[purloining]]. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}<ref name=SOED/>
## {{lb|en|engineering}} Removal of water from a river, lake, or aquifer.
# A separation from [[worldly]] objects; a [[recluse]] life; the withdrawal from one's senses. {{defdate|First attested around 1350 to 1470.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''a [[hermit|hermit's]] '''abstraction'''''
# The act of focusing on one characteristic of an object rather than the object as a whole group of characteristics; the act of separating said qualities from the object or ideas. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* {{circa|1837}} W. Hamilton, in ''Lectures on Metaphysics and Logic'' (1860), Lecture XXXV, [http://books.google.com/books?id=VuQQAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA474&dq=Abstraction-is-no-positive-act&ei=AMm4R_vkMY2kzgSI4MTEBQ page 474]:
#*: '''Abstraction''' is no positive act: it is simply the negative of attention.
#: '''''Abstraction''' is necessary for the classification of things into genera and species.''
# Any characteristic of an individual object when that characteristic has been [[separation|separated]] from the object and is contemplated alone as a quality having independent existence.
# A member of an [[idealization|idealized]] subgroup when contemplated according to the [[abstract|abstracted]] quality which defines the subgroup.
# The act of comparing commonality between distinct objects and organizing using those similarities; the act of generalizing characteristics; the product of said generalization. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# An idea or [[notion]] of an abstract or [[theoretical]] nature. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#: ''to fight for mere '''abstractions'''''.
# Absence or [[absorption]] of mind; [[inattention]] to present objects; preoccupation. {{defdate|First attested in the late 18<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{lb|en|art}} An [[abstract]] creation, or piece of art; qualities of artwork that are free from representational aspects. {{defdate|First attested in the early 20<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name = chambers>{{R:CDOE|page=5}}</ref><ref name=SOED/>
# {{lb|en|chemistry}} A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
# An [[idea]] of an [[idealistic]], [[unrealistic]] or [[visionary]] [[nature]].
# The result of mentally abstracting an idea; the [[product]] of any mental [[process]] involving a [[synthesis]] of: [[separation]], [[despecification]], [[generalization]], and [[ideation]] in any of a number of [[combination]]s.
# {{lb|en|geology}} The merging of two river valleys by the larger of the two deepening and widening so much so, as to assimilate the smaller.
# {{lb|en|computing}} Any generalization technique that ignores or hides details to capture some kind of commonality between different [[instances]] for the purpose of controlling the intellectual complexity of [[engineered]] systems, particularly [[software]] systems.
# {{lb|en|computing}} Any intellectual construct produced through the technique of abstraction.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|the act of generalization}} {{l|en|universalization}}; see also [[Thesaurus:generalization]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|the act of generalization}} {{l|en|specialization}}; see also [[Thesaurus:specialization]]
* {{sense|mentally abstracting}} {{l|en|concretization}}

====Derived terms====
{{der4|en
|eccentric abstraction
|lambda abstraction
|leaky abstraction
|abstractional
|abstractionism
|abstractionist
|abstractive}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|abstract}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of abstracting}}
* Amharic: {{t|am|ረቂቅነት}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|աբստրահում}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|astraición|f}}, {{t|ast|astracción|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абстра́кция|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|abstracció|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|abstraktion|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstractie|f}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|abstraktsioon}}, {{t|et|üldistus}}, {{t|et|hajameelsus}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|abstrahointi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstraction|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|abstracción|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|აბსტრაგირება}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abstraktion|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αφαίρεση|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|הפשטה|f|tr=hafshat'a}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|absztrakció}}, {{t+|hu|elvonatkoztatás}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|abstraction}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|teibiú|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|astrazione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|абстракция}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|abstrakcija|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|abstraksjon|m}}, {{t+|nb|abstrahering|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|abstraksjon|m}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|abstraccion|f}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|انتزاعیدن}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|abstrakcja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abstração|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|abstracție|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абстра́кция|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abstracción|f}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|kabasalan}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|soyutlama}}, {{t+|tr|abstraksiyon}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|dezugam}}, {{t|vo|dezugot}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אַבסטראַקציע|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|purloining}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontvreemding}}, {{t|nl|toeëigening}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|stjele}}, {{t|nb|naske}}, {{t|nb|tæsje}}, {{t|nb|rane}}, {{t|nb|røve}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|idea of a visionary nature}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|[[vaag|vage]] [[voorstelling]]}}, {{t|nl|[[visionair]] [[begrip]]|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|abstraktaĵo}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|abstraksjon|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{ttbc-top}}
* Irish: {{t-check|ga|teibíocht|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

===Further reading===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* ''[https://web.archive.org/web/20070401090047/http://www.aaas.org/international/ehn/waterpop/gloss.htm Glossary of Water Terms]'', American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|fr|LL.|abstractio|abstrāctiō, abstrāctiōnem}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|fr|Fr-abstraction.ogg|Audio}}
* {{homophones|fr|abstractions}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#English|abstraction]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|faire abstraction}}

====Related terms====
{{rel2|fr
|abstraire
|abstrait}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|ro|abstracție|bor=1}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}