==English==

===Etymology 1===
First attested before 1456. From the adjective '''abstract'''.

====Pronunciation====
* {{sense|an abstraction}} {{a|US}} {{enPR|ăb'străkt"}}, {{IPA|/ˈæbˌstrækt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"{b%str{kt/}}<ref name=dict/>
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌæbˈstrækt/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[abridgement]] or [[summary]].
#* [[w:Isaac Watts|Isaac Watts]] — An '''abstract''' of every treatise he had read.
# Something that [[concentrate]]s in itself the qualities of larger item, or multiple items.
#* [[w:Ford|Ford]] — Man, the '''abstract''' Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven hath modeled.
# An [[abstraction]]; an [[#Adjective|abstract]] term; that which is abstract.
#* [[w:John Stuart Mill|John Stuart Mill]] — The [[concretes]] "father" and "son" have, or might have, the '''abstracts''' "paternity" and "filiety".
# A summary title of the key points detailing a tract of land, for ownership; [[abstract of title]].
# {{context|arts}} An abstract work of art.
# {{context|medicine}} A [[powder]]ed solid [[extract]] of a [[vegetable]] substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|statement summarizing the important points of a text}} [[abridgment]], [[compendium]], [[epitome]], [[synopsis]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[abstract of title]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|an abrigement or summary}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|абстракт}},  {{t+|bg|резюме}},  {{t+|bg|извадка}}
* Catalan: [[resum]], {{m}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|sažetak|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|výtah|m}}, {{t-|cs|shrnutí|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|abstrakt}}, {{t+|da|resume|n}}
* Dutch: [[samenvatting]], [[korte inhoud]]
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kokkuvõte}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tiivistelmä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstract|m}}, {{t+|fr|résumé|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Auszug|m}}, {{t+|de|Zusammenfassung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: [[सारांश]] (saaraansh), [[निचोड]] (nichoD)
* Italian: {{t+|it|estratto|m}}, {{t-|it|sunto|m}}, {{t+|it|compendio|m}}, {{t+|it|riassunto|m}}
* Japanese: [[概要]] ([[がいよう]], gaiyō), [[要約]] (yōyaku)
* Marathi: [[सारांश]] (saaraaunsh), [[गोषवारा]] (goShawaaraa)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sammendrag|n}}, {{t-|no|oppsummering|m}}, {{t+|no|utdrag|n}}, {{t+|no|referat|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|resumo|m}}, {{t+|pt|sumário|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|конспект|m}}, {{t+|ru|реферат|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|resumen|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|referat|n}}, {{t-|sv|sammandrag|n}}, {{t+|sv|sammanfattning|c}}, {{t-|sv|utdrag|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something that concentrates in itself the qualities of something else}}
* Catalan: [[xifra]], {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|aineellistuma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: [[निचोड]] (nichoD)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|sammenfatning|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an abstraction}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абстракция}},  {{t-|bg|отвлечено понятие}}
* Catalan: [[abstracció]], {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|apstrakcija|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstractie}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsite}}, {{t-|fi|abstraktio}}
* Hindi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|astrazione|f}}
* Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
* Marathi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|distraksjon|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абстракция|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an abstract work of art}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абстракция}}
* Dutch: [[#Dutch|abstract]] [[kunstwerk]]
* Finnish: [[abstrakti]] [[teos]]
* Hindi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[抽象派]]の (ちゅうしょうはの, chūshōhano)
* Marathi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstrakt}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrakt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which is abstract}}
* Dutch: (een) [[#Dutch|abstract]] [[iets]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsite}}
* Hindi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
* Italian: {{t+|it|astratto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
* Marathi: [[अमूर्त]] (amoort)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstraksjon|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrakt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an extract of a vegetable substance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|екстракт|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Croatian: [[ekstrakt#Croatian|ekstrakt]] {{m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|výtažek|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uittreksel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uute}}
* Hindi: [[निचोड]] (nichoD)
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[抽出]] (ちゅうしゅつ, chūshutsu)
* Marathi: [[सत्त्व]] (satw)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|ekstrakt}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|экстракт|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|extracto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[abstrak]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[abstracto]], [[summario]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[개요]] (gaeyo)
* {{ttbc|nov}}: [[abstraktu]], [[abstraktetu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
* First attested before 1398.
* From {{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|abstractus|lang=la}}, perfect passive participle of {{term|abstraho|abstrahō|draw away|lang=la}}, formed from {{term|abs-||away|lang=la}} + {{term|traho|trahō|draw|lang=la}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ăb'străkt"}}, {{IPA|/æbˈstrækt/|/ˈæbˌstrækt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"{b%str{kt/}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|more abstract and sometimes [[abstracter]]|  most abstract and sometimes [[abstractest]]}}<ref name=dict/>

# {{archaic}} [[absent-minded|Absent-minded]].
# Considered apart from any application to a particular object.
# Difficult to understand; [[abstruse]].
# Insufficiently factual.<ref name = dict>{{reference-book | last =| first = | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | editor =Gove, Philip Babcock    | others =  | title = Webster's Third International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged | origdate =  | origyear = 1909 | origmonth =  | url =  | format =  | accessdate =  | accessyear =  | accessmonth =  | edition =  | date =  | year =1976  | month =  | publisher =G. & C. Merriam Co.  | location = Springfield, MA | language =  | id =  | doi = | isbn =0-87779-101-5 | lccn = | ol = | pages =8| chapter =  | chapterurl =  | quote =}}</ref>
# Not [[concrete]]; [[ideal]].
# A number or a unit that does not relate to an actual thing;
# {{archaic}} Drawn away; [[remove]]d from; apart from; [[separate]].
#* '''17th century''': [[w:Norris|Noris]], ''The Oxford Dictionary'' - The more '''abstract''' we are from the body ... the more fit we shall be to behold divine light.
# Apart from [[practice]] or [[reality]]; [[vague]]; [[theoretical]]; [[impersonal]].
# {{context|arts}} Free from representational qualities.
# {{context|music}} [[absolute|Absolute]].
# {{context|dance}} Lacking a story.
# {{context|logic}} [[general|General]] (as opposed to [[particular]]).
#* [[w:John Stuart Mill|John Stuart Mill]] - A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an '''abstract''' name which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained currency from his example, of applying the expression "'''abstract''' name" to all names which are the result of abstraction and generalization, and consequently to all general names, instead of confining it to the names of attributes.
# {{context|computing}} Of a [[class]] in [[object-oriented]] programming, being a partial basis for [[subclass]]es rather than a complete template for objects.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|not applied or practical}} [[conceptual]], [[theoretical]]
* {{sense|insufficiently factual}} [[formal]]
* {{sense|difficult to understand}} [[abstruse]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|not applied or practical}} [[applied]], [[practical]]
* {{sense|considered apart from concrete existence}} [[concrete]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[abstractly]]
* [[abstractness]]
* [[abstract idea]]
* [[abstract noun]]
* [[abstract numbers]]
* [[abstract terms]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|extracted}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|onttrokken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uuttaa|alt=uutettu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|separate}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afgezonderd}}, {{t+|nl|gescheiden}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|erillinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstrait}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|teorico}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstrakt}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abstrato}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абстрактный|tr=abstráktnyj}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrakt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|absent in mind}}
* Dutch: [[afwezig]], [[verstrooid]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|poissaoleva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|distrahert}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|apart from practice or reality; not concrete}}
* Basque: {{t-|eu|abstraktu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абстрактен}},  {{t+|bg|отвлечен}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|abstracte}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstract}}, {{t+|nl|theoretisch}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|abstrakta}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|abstraktne}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|teoreettinen}}, {{t+|fi|abstrakti}}
* German: {{t+|de|abstrakt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|absztrakt}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|astratto}}, {{t+|it|teorico}}
* Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstrakt}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abstrato}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абстрактный|tr=abstráktnyj}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrakt}}, {{t+|sv|teoretisk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|difficult to understand}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|неразбираем}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|abstracte}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstract}}, {{t+|nl|vaag}}, {{t+|nl|algemeen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vaikeaselkoinen}}, {{t+|fi|abstrakti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstrait}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|astruso}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstrakt}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|djupsinnig}}, {{t+|sv|svårfattlig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|art: free from representational qualities}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|abstracte}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstract}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|abstrakti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|abstrakt}}
* Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|abstrakt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|general as opposed to particular}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|algemeen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yleinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[abstrak]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[abstracte]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[추상적인]] (chusangjeokin)
* {{ttbc|nov}}: [[abstrakti]] or [[abstraktet]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[abstracto]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[soyut]], [[abstre]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[reify]]

===Etymology 3===
First attested in 1542. From the adjective form of '''abstract'''.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ăb"străkt'}}, {{IPA|/æb.ˈstrækt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/%{b"str{kt/}}
* {{sense|to summarize}} {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈæb.ˌstrækt/}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive}} To [[separate]]; to [[remove]]; to [[take away]]; [[withdraw]].
#* [[w:Walter Scott|Walter Scott]] - He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution '''abstracted''' from his own prejudices.
# {{context|transitive}} To [[consider]] abstractly; to [[contemplate]] separately or by itself.
# {{context|transitive}} To [[summarize]]; to [[abridge]]; to [[epitomize]].
# {{context|transitive}} To draw off (interest or attention).
#* [[w:William Blackwood|William Blackwood]], ''Blackwood's Magazine'' - The young stranger had been '''abstracted''' and silent.
#: ''He was wholly '''abstracted''' by other objects.''
# {{context|transitive|euphemistic}} To [[steal]]; to take away; to [[remove]] without permission.
#* [[w:W. Black|W. Black]] - Von Rosen had quietly '''abstracted''' the bearing-reins from the harness.
# {{context|transitive|arts}} To create [[artistic]] abstractions of.
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[extract]] by means of [[distillation]].
# {{context|intransitive|rare}} To perform the process of [[abstraction]].
#* [[w:George Berkeley|George Berkeley]] - I own myself able to '''abstract''' in one sense.
# {{context|intransitive|fine arts}} To create abstractions.
# {{context|intransitive}} To [[withdraw]] oneself; to [[retire]].
# {{context|intransitive|computing}} To produce an [[abstraction]], usually by [[refactoring]] existing code. Generally used with "out".
#: ''He '''abstracted''' out the square root function.''

=====Usage notes=====
* The 5th sense is pronounced predominately as /ˈæb.ˌstrækt/.
* All other senses are pronounced as /æb.ˈstrækt/.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to remove, separate, take away, or withdraw}} [[remove]], [[separate]], [[take away]], [[withdraw]]
* {{sense|to abridge, epitomize, or summarize}} [[abridge]], [[epitomize]], [[summarize]]
* {{sense|to filch, purloin, or steal}} [[filch]], [[purloin]], [[steal]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[abstractable]]
* [[abstracted]]
* [[abstracter]]
* [[abstractor]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[abstraction]]
* [[abstractive]]
* [[abstractum]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to separate; to remove; to take away}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отделям}},  {{t+|bg|отнемам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afzonderen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstraire}}
* German: {{t+|de|trennen}}
* Hindi: [[अलग करना]], [[निकाल देना]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|rimuovere}}, {{t+|it|sottrarre}}, {{t+|it|estrarre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[取る]] (toru)
* Marathi: [[वेगळे करणे]], [[काढून टाकणे]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abstrair}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abstraer}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrahera}}, {{t-|sv|skilja av}}, {{t-|sv|skilja ut}}, {{t+|sv|ta bort}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to withdraw}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|изваждам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|terugtrekken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* German: {{t+|de|entziehen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αφαιρώ}}
* Hindi: [[पिछे आना]]
* Marathi: [[मागे येणे]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to steal}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отмъквам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontvreemden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|poistaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sottrarre}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|roubar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|knycka}}, {{t+|sv|stjäla}}, {{t+|sv|nalla}}, {{t+|sv|sno}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to create an artistic abstraction of}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstraheren}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|abstrahoida}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: [[अमूर्त कलाकृती करना]]
* Marathi: [[अमूर्त कलाकृती करणे]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to abridge, epitomize, or summarize}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|samenvatten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tiivistää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abstraire}}
* Hindi: [[सारांश करना]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riassumere}}
* Marathi: [[सारांश करणे]]
* Portuguese: [[resumir]], [[sumariar]]
* Swedish: göra {{t-|sv|sammandrag}} av, {{t+|sv|sammanfatta}},
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consider abstractly}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstraheren}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tuumia}}
* German: {{t+|de|abstrahieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: [[अमूर्तरूपसे लेना]]
* Marathi: [[अमूर्तपणे घेणे]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to draw off}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отвличам}},  {{t-|bg|(внимание)}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afleiden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[viedä]] [[huomio]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to extract by means of distillation}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|onttrekken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uuttaa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to withdraw oneself}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|zich terugtrekken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetäytyä}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform the process of abstraction}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|abstraheren}}
* Hindi: [[अमूर्तिकरन करना]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|astrarre}}
* Marathi: [[अमूर्तिकरण करणे]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Novial: [[abstrakte]]
* Russian: [[абстрагировать]] (abstragírovat’)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|abstrahera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[abstraher]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[분리]]하다, [[추출]]하다, [[추상화]]하다
* {{ttbc|nov}}: [[abstrakte]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[ abstraer]], [[extraer]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[soyutlamak]]

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
<references/>

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|abstract|lang=nl}}
{{wikipedia|abstracte kunst|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-abstract.ogg|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj}}

# [[#English|abstract]]
# {{arts|lang=nl}} [[#English|abstract]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|arts}} [[figuratief]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From literary {{etyl|la|ro}} {{term|abstractus}}, {{etyl|de|ro}} ''[[abstrakt]]''.

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj}}

# [[#English|abstract]]

====Antonyms====
* [[concret]]

====Related terms====
* [[abstractă]]
* [[abstractiza]]
* [[abstractizabil]]
* [[abstractizabilitate]]
* [[abstractizant]]
* [[abstractizare]]
* [[abstractizat]]
* [[abstracție]]

[[am:abstract]]
[[ar:abstract]]
[[be:abstract]]
[[cs:abstract]]
[[da:abstract]]
[[de:abstract]]
[[et:abstract]]
[[el:abstract]]
[[es:abstract]]
[[eo:abstract]]
[[fa:abstract]]
[[fr:abstract]]
[[ko:abstract]]
[[hi:abstract]]
[[io:abstract]]
[[id:abstract]]
[[it:abstract]]
[[kn:abstract]]
[[lt:abstract]]
[[hu:abstract]]
[[ml:abstract]]
[[my:abstract]]
[[nl:abstract]]
[[ja:abstract]]
[[ps:abstract]]
[[pl:abstract]]
[[pt:abstract]]
[[ru:abstract]]
[[simple:abstract]]
[[fi:abstract]]
[[sv:abstract]]
[[ta:abstract]]
[[te:abstract]]
[[th:abstract]]
[[chr:abstract]]
[[tr:abstract]]
[[uk:abstract]]
[[ur:abstract]]
[[vi:abstract]]
[[zh:abstract]]