==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1557.
* From {{etyl|frm}} {{term|absurde|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|absurdus|out of tune|lang=la|discordant, unreasonable}}, from {{term|ab||lang=la}} + {{term|surdus||lang=la|deaf}}. Probably derived from the root {{term||svar|to sound}}; not connected with ''surd''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Canada}} {{IPA|/æbˈzɝd/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/{b"s@`d/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əbˈsɜːd/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@b"s3:d/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/æb.ˈsɝd/|/æb.ˈzɝd/|/əb.ˈsɝd/|/əb.ˈzɝd/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@b"s@`d/}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(r)d}}
* {{audio|en-us-absurd.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# Contrary to reason or [[propriety]]; [[obviously]] and [[flatly]] opposed to [[manifest]] truth; [[inconsistent]] with the plain [[dictates]] of common sense; [[logically]] [[contradictory]]; [[nonsensical]]; [[ridiculous]].
#:* This proffer is '''absurd''' and reasonless. - Shakespeare, ''Henry VI, Part I'', V-iv
#:* This phrase '''absurd''' to call a villain great. - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]
# Having no [[rational]] or [[orderly]] relationship to man's life; [[meaningless]]; lacking order or value.

====Usage notes====
* ''Absurd'' is an adjective of [[abstract noun]]s
Among the synonyms:
* '''Irrational''' is the [[weakest]], denoting that which is [[plainly]] inconsistent with the dictates of sound reason; as, an ''irrational'' course of life.
* '''Foolish''' rises higher, and implies either a [[perversion]] of that faculty, or an absolute [[weakness]] or [[fatuity]] of mind; as, ''foolish'' enterprises.
* '''Absurd''' rises still higher, denoting that which is plainly opposed to received [[notions]] of propriety and truth; as, an ''absurd'' man, [[project]], opinion, story, argument, etc.
* '''Preposterous''' rises still higher, and [[supposes]] an absolute ''inversion'' in the order of things; or, in plain terms, a "putting of the cart before the horse;" as, a ''preposterous'' [[suggestion]], ''preposterous'' conduct, a ''preposterous'' [[regulation]] or law.

====Synonyms====
* [[foolish]], [[irrational]], [[ridiculous]], [[preposterous]], [[inconsistent]], [[incongruous]], [[ludicrous]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:absurd]]

====Derived terms====
* [[absurdly]], [[absurdity]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|contrary to reason or propriety}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|absurd|xs=Albanian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абсурден}},  {{t+|bg|нелеп}},  {{t+|bg|безсмислен}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|absurd}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|荒謬|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|荒谬|tr=huāngmiù|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|荒唐|tr=huāngtáng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|荒誕|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|荒诞|tr=huāngdàn|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|literary}} {{t|zh|悖謬|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|悖谬|tr=bèimiù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|absurdní}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|absurd}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absurd}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|absurda|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|absurdne}}, {{t-|et|mõttetu}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|absurdi}}, {{t+|fi|järjetön}}
* French: {{t+|fr|absurde}}
* German: {{t+|de|absurd}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אבסורד}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|abszurd}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|absurda}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: {{t-|ia|absurde}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|assurdo}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|馬鹿らしい|tr=bakarashī}}, {{t-|ja|愚かな|tr=orokana}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|absurdus}}
* Latvian: absurdais [[bezjēdzīgais]]
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|апсурд}}
* Norwegian: absurd, {{t-|no|tåpelig}}
* Novial: [[absurdi]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|absurdalny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|absurdo}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|absurd}}, {{t-|ro|irațional}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсурдный|tr=absúrdnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|нелепый|tr=nelépyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|amaideach|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: Apsurd
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|absurden|alt=absúrden}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|absurdo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|absurd}}, {{t+|sv|befängd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
{{wikipedia|Absurdism}}

# {{context|obsolete}} An [[absurdity]]. &mdash; {{w|Alexander Pope}}
# {{context|with '''the'''}} That which is absurd.
# {{context|philosophy}} The opposition between the human search for meaning in life and the inability to find any; The state or condition in which man exists in an [[irrational]] [[universe]] and his life has no meaning outside of his existence.

====Derived terms====
* [[theatre of the absurd]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|obsolete: an absurdity}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абсурд}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|absurditet|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|absurd|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|abszurdum}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|馬鹿|tr=baka}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|absurd|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|absurd}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсурд|m|tr=absúrd|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which is absurd}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|абсурд}},  {{t+|bg|нелепост}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|absurditet|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|愚鈍|tr=gudon}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|абсурд|m|tr=absúrd|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|нелепость|f|tr=nelépost'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nov}}: [[absurde]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

----

==Catalan==

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj}}

# {{l|en|absurd}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|ca|absurdament}}

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[absurdity]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|da}} {{term|absurdus||discordant, unreasonable|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/absurd/|[ɑbˈsuɐ̯ˀd̥]|lang=da}}

===Adjective===
{{head|da|adjective|neuter|[[absurd]]|definite and plural|absurde}}

# {{l|en|absurd}}
# {{qualifier|adverbial}} [[absurdly]]

====Derived terms====
* [[absurditet]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|De-absurd.ogg|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{de-adj|comparative=absurder|superlative=absurdesten}}

# {{l|en|absurd}}

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Adjective===
{{head|lb|adjective}}

# {{l|en|absurd}}

====Declension====
{{lb-decl-adj|t}}

====Related terms====
* [[Absurditéit]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Pl-absurd.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{pl-noun|m}}

# [[nonsense]]
#: ''Jego propozycje to jeden wielki '''absurd'''.''
#:: His suggestions are one big nonsense.

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|absurd|absurdy
|absurdu|absurdów
|absurdowi|absurdom
|absurd|absurdy
|absurdem|absurdami
|absurdzie|absurdach
|absurdzie|absurdy
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[absurdalny]] &mdash; ''adjective'' absurd

----

==Swedish==

===Adjective===
{{head|sv|adjective}}

# {{l|en|absurd}}

====Declension====
{{sv-adj-reg|2=absurt}}

====Related terms====
* [[absurdism]]
* [[absurditet]]

[[am:absurd]]
[[ar:absurd]]
[[cs:absurd]]
[[de:absurd]]
[[et:absurd]]
[[el:absurd]]
[[es:absurd]]
[[eo:absurd]]
[[fa:absurd]]
[[fr:absurd]]
[[gl:absurd]]
[[ko:absurd]]
[[hi:absurd]]
[[io:absurd]]
[[id:absurd]]
[[is:absurd]]
[[it:absurd]]
[[kn:absurd]]
[[csb:absurd]]
[[ku:absurd]]
[[lt:absurd]]
[[li:absurd]]
[[hu:absurd]]
[[ml:absurd]]
[[my:absurd]]
[[nl:absurd]]
[[no:absurd]]
[[ps:absurd]]
[[pl:absurd]]
[[pt:absurd]]
[[ru:absurd]]
[[sq:absurd]]
[[fi:absurd]]
[[sv:absurd]]
[[tl:absurd]]
[[ta:absurd]]
[[te:absurd]]
[[th:absurd]]
[[chr:absurd]]
[[tr:absurd]]
[[uk:absurd]]
[[vi:absurd]]
[[zh:absurd]]