==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|en|a|bubble|t1=in such a state or condition}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=10}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/əˈbʌb.l̩/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/əˈbʌb.l̩/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# In a state of [[excitement]], agitated activity, or motion. {{defdate|First attested in the 19<sup>th</sup> century.}}
#: {{ux|en|After they had sat down, the party remained '''abubble''' until the speaker rose.}}
#* '''1885''', Alexander Stewart, ''’Twixt Ben Nevis and Glencoe,'' Edinburgh: William Paterson, Chapter{{nbsp}}46, p.{{nbsp}}337,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc2.ark:/13960/t1jh3rf84&view=1up&seq=359&skin=2021&q1=abubble]</sup>
#*: It was at times as if a score of tiny rainbows of the most brilliant hues were being rapidly interwoven, only to be instantly untwisted again, in order to be rewoven into a newer and still brighter pattern, in and over an acre of sea, all '''abubble''' and aboil with the gambols of the frolicsome shoal.
#* '''1913''', {{w|Jack London}}, ''{{w|John Barleycorn (novel)|John Barleycorn}},'' New York: Century, Chapter{{nbsp}}7, p.{{nbsp}}64,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/johnbarleycorn00londrich/page/64/mode/1up?q=%22a-bubble%22]</sup>
#*: The men in stripes worked a shorter day than I at my machine. And there was vastly more romance in being an oyster pirate or a convict than in being a machine slave. And behind it all, behind all of me with youth '''a-bubble''', whispered Romance, Adventure.
#* '''1944''', {{w|Ernie Pyle}}, ''Brave Men,'' New York: Henry Holt, Chapter{{nbsp}}30, p.{{nbsp}}409,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20171115/html.php]</sup>
#*: When we left the restaurant he was all '''abubble''' and said over and over again that he’d had the best time that evening he had ever had in the Army.
#* '''1979''', {{w|William Styron}}, ''{{w|Sophie's Choice (novel)|Sophie’s Choice}},'' New York: Random House, Chapter{{nbsp}}13, p.{{nbsp}}381,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sophieschoicesty00styr/page/380/mode/1up?q=abubble]</sup>
#*: Dr. Walter Dürrfeld {{...}} a director of IG Farbenindustrie, that {{...}} conglomerate—inconceivably huge even for its day—whose prestige and size are alone enough to set Professor Biegański’s mind '''abubble''' with giddy euphoria.
# [[bubbling|Bubbling]].
#: {{ux|en|The sour mash was '''abubble'''.}}
#* '''1869''', {{w|William Alexander (bishop)|William Alexander}}, “Specimen of a Translation of Virgil” in ''Afternoon Lectures on Literature and Art,'' Dublin: William McGee, p.{{nbsp}}345,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=mdp.39015030932803&view=1up&seq=367&skin=2021&q1=%22a-bubble%22]</sup>
#*: Part haste the boiling caldron all '''a-bubble''',

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|bubbling}} {{l|en|bubblesome}}, {{l|en|bubbly}}, {{l|en|ebullient}}; see also [[Thesaurus:effervescent]]

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# Bubbling over with excitement. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 20<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>

====Related terms====
* [[bubbly]]
* [[in a bubble]]

===References===
<references/>