{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|habundaunce|lang=ang}}, {{term|abundance|lang=ang}}, {{etyl|fro}} {{term|abundance|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|abundantia|lang=la}}, from {{term|abundo|abundō|lang=la}}. See {{term|abound|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-abundance.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[overflowing]] [[fullness]]; [[ample]] [[sufficiency]]; great [[plenty]]; [[profusion]]; [[copious]] supply; [[superfluity]]; wealth: -- [[strictly]] [[applicable]] to quantity only, but sometimes used of number. A lack of scarcity.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* It is lamentable to remember what '''abundance''' of noble blood hath been shed with small benefit to the Christian state. - [[Raleigh]]

====Synonyms====
* [[exuberance|Exuberance]]; [[plenteousness]]; plenty; [[copiousness]]; [[overflow]]; [[riches]]; [[affluence]]; wealth.
* '''Abundance''', [[plenty|Plenty]], [[exuberance|Exuberance]]. These words rise upon each other in expressing the idea of fullness.
* '''Plenty''' denotes a sufficiency to supply every want; as, ''plenty'' of food, ''plenty'' of money, etc.
* '''Abundance''' express more, and gives the idea of superfluity or excess; as, ''abundance'' of riches, an ''abundance'' of wit and humor; often, however, it only denotes plenty in a high degree.
* '''Exuberance''' rises still higher, and implies a [[bursting]] forth on every side, producing great superfluity or
[[redundance]]; as, an ''exuberance'' of mirth, an ''exuberance'' of animal spirits, etc.

====Related terms====
* [[abound]]
* [[abundant]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|ample sufficiency}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[bereket]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|hojnost|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overvloed}}
* Finnish: [[runsaus]], [[yltäkylläisyys]]
* French: {{t+|fr|abondance}}
* German: {{t+|de|Überfluss|m}}
* Indonesian: [[limpah-ruah]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[abundantia]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbondanza}}
* Japanese: [[大量]] (tairyō); [[過剰]] (kajō); [[豊かさ]] (yutakasa); [[多量]] (taryō)
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|زۆری|tr=zori|sc=KUchar}}
* Norwegian: [[overflod]] {{c}}
* Portuguese: [[abundância]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|изобилие|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abundancia}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:1913}}

[[ar:abundance]]
[[et:abundance]]
[[fa:abundance]]
[[fr:abundance]]
[[gl:abundance]]
[[io:abundance]]
[[id:abundance]]
[[it:abundance]]
[[ku:abundance]]
[[hu:abundance]]
[[ml:abundance]]
[[pl:abundance]]
[[pt:abundance]]
[[fi:abundance]]
[[sv:abundance]]
[[ta:abundance]]
[[te:abundance]]
[[vi:abundance]]
[[tr:abundance]]
[[zh:abundance]]