==English==

===Etymology===
First attested in the 1530's. From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{term|abusif|lang=fr}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|abūsīvus}},<ref name=RHD>{{R:RHCD|page=6}}</ref> from {{term|abusus|lang=la}} + {{term|-ivus||-ive|lang=la}}.<ref name=WI3>{{R:MW3 1976|page=8}}</ref> Equivalent to {{suffix|abuse|ive|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/əˈbjuː.sɪv/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈbju.sɪv/|/əˈbju.zɪv/|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[wrongly|Wrongly]] used; [[perverted]]; [[misapplied]]; [[unjust]]; illegal. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED>{{R:SOED5|page=10}}</ref>
#* I am ... necessitated to use the word Parliament improperly, according to the '''abusive''' acceptation thereof. - [[Fuller]]
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} [[catachrestic|Catachrestic]]. {{defdate|First attested in the mid 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} Full of abuses; practicing abuse; containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse. {{defdate|First attested in the late 16<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* {{quote-book|year=1589|author={{w|Thomas Nashe}}|title=The Anatomy of Absurdity|passage=...to begin in this vacation the foundation of a trifling subject which might shroud in his leaves the '''abusive''' enormities of these our times.}}
# Prone to ill treat by coarse, [[insulting]] words or by other ill usage; [[vituperative]]; [[reproachful]]; [[scurrilous]]. {{defdate|First attested in the early 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* An '''abusive''' lampoon. - [[w:Samuel Johnson|Samuel Johnson]] ''A dictionary of the English language''
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Tending to deceive; [[fraudulent]]. {{defdate|Attested only from the early to mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
#* An '''abusive''' treaty. - [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} Given to [[misusing]]; also, full of abuses.
#* The '''abusive''' prerogatives of his see. - [[w:Henry Hallam|Hallam]]
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Given to misusing. {{defdate|Attested only in the mid 17<sup>th</sup> century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# Being physically [[injurious]]; characterized by repeated violence.

====Synonyms====
{{checksense}}
* [[reproachful]], [[scurrilous]], [[opprobrious]], [[insolent]], [[insulting]], [[injurious]], [[offensive]], [[reviling]], [[berate| berating]], [[vituperative]]

====Derived terms====
* [[abusively]]
* [[abusiveness]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|wrongly used}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|abusiu}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|practicing abuse}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|abusiu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|ngutu momoho}} {{qualifier|of talk}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|abusivo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|containing abuse}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-needed|sh}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|оскърбителен}}, {{t+|bg|обиден}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|grof}}, {{t+|nl|ruw}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|grov}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{head|fr|adjective form}}

# {{feminine of|abusif|lang=fr}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form}}

# {{feminine plural of|abusivo|lang=it}}

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|abūsīve}}

# {{inflection of|abūsīvus||voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[am:abusive]]
[[ar:abusive]]
[[ca:abusive]]
[[et:abusive]]
[[el:abusive]]
[[fr:abusive]]
[[ko:abusive]]
[[hy:abusive]]
[[hi:abusive]]
[[id:abusive]]
[[it:abusive]]
[[ku:abusive]]
[[hu:abusive]]
[[ml:abusive]]
[[my:abusive]]
[[nl:abusive]]
[[ps:abusive]]
[[pl:abusive]]
[[pt:abusive]]
[[ru:abusive]]
[[simple:abusive]]
[[fi:abusive]]
[[sv:abusive]]
[[ta:abusive]]
[[te:abusive]]
[[tr:abusive]]
[[vi:abusive]]
[[zh:abusive]]