==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1705.
* From {{suffix|Acadia|an|t2=one that is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/əˈkeɪ.di.n̩/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈkeɪ.di.n̩/|/əˈkeɪ.dʒn̩/}}
* {{rhymes|eɪdiən}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or pertaining to [[Acadia]], its people, or their language or culture. {{defdate|First attested in the early 19th century.}}<ref name=SOED/>
# {{context|geology}} Of or pertaining to the [[Acadian epoch]].

====Usage notes====
*  The second US pronunciation is a rarely used historical version, that lead to the word [[Cajun]].<ref name=WI3>Gove, Philip Babcock, ed. ''Webster's Third International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged.'' Springfield: G. & C. Merriam Co., 1976.</ref>

====Derived terms====
* [[Acadian epoch]]
* [[Acadian French]]
* [[Acadian owl]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Of or pertaining to Acadia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|acadien}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|acádio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acadio}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|Of or pertaining to the Acadian epoch}}
* French: {{t+|fr|acadien}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|acádio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Translations====

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# A native of [[Acadia]] or their descendants who moved to Louisiana; a [[Cajun]]. {{defdate|First attested in the early 18th century.}}<ref name=SOED>Brown, Lesley, ed. ''The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary.'' 5th. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003.</ref>
# {{Canada}} A French speaking descendant of the early settlers in the [[Maritime Provinces]].
# {{rare}} [[Acadian French]]: the form of French spoken in Acadia.
#: ''In many places, '''Acadian''' has been supplanted by English and by Standard French.''
# {{rare}} [[Acadian epoch]]; the [[Middle Cambrian]]; the geologic time period from 497 million year ago to 509 million year ago.
#: ''The Burgess Shale contains fossils of very odd organisms that lived during the '''Acadian'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Of or pertaining to Acadia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Acadien|m}}, {{t+|fr|Acadienne|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|acádio}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|Acadian French}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Acadien|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|Acadian epoch}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Acadien|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|época dos acádios|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[Cajun]]

===References===
<references/>

[[io:Acadian]]
[[pl:Acadian]]
[[ru:Acadian]]