==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|accessio}}, from {{m|la|accēdō}} (English {{m|en|accede}}). Cognate to French {{m|fr|accession}}. First attested in 1646.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/æk.ˈsɛ.ʃən/|/əˈsɛ.ʃən/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{audio|En-us-accession.ogg|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A coming to; the act of [[acceding]] and becoming [[joined]]
#: ''a king's '''accession''' to a confederacy''
# Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation from without.
#* '''1783''', [[w:Edward Gibbon|Edward Gibbon]], ''{{w|The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire}}'', London: W. Strahan and T. Cadell, Volume 1, Chapter 1, p.{{nbsp}}5,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004848826.0001.001]</sup>
#*: The only '''accession''' which the Roman empire received, during the first century of the Christian Aera, was the province of Britain.
#* '''1803''', John Browne Cutting, “A Succinct History of Jamaica” in {{w|Robert Charles Dallas}}, ''The History of the Maroons'', London: Longman and Rees, Volume 1, p.{{nbsp}}xli,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/cihm_44228]</sup>
#*: {{...}} armed vessels being provided, their crews were soon recruited by '''accessions''' from the needy or adventurous, the discontented or the bold.
# {{lb|en|legal}} A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a [[corporeal]] substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the thing is not changed into a different species).
# {{lb|en|legal}} The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already in force between other powers.
# The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity.
# {{lb|en|medicine}} The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or paroxysm.
# Agreement.
# Access; admittance.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a coming to}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|加入|tr=jiārù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toetreding|f}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|ühinemine}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liittyminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accession|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Beitritt|m}}
* Interlingue: {{t|ie|accession}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|加盟|tr=かめい, kamei|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|加入|tr=かにゅう, kanyū|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|tiltredelse|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вступле́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|присоедине́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|акце́ссия|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ascenso|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tillträde|n}}, {{t+|sv|anslutning|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|katılım}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|вступ|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|приє́днання|n|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|increase by something added}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisäys}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zuwachs|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessão|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|artma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(legal) mode of acquiring property}}
* German: {{t|de|Vermögenszuwachs|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessão|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(legal) act by which one power becomes party to engagements already in force}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ภาคยานุวัติ}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|surtroniĝo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valtaannousu}}
* German: {{t+|de|Antritt|m}}, {{t+|de|Besteigung|f}}, {{t|de|Thronbesteigung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|tiltredelse|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|воцарение|n}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|göreve gelme}}, {{t|tr|tahta çıkma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(medicine) invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make a [[record]] of (additions to a [[collection]]).

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|deaccession}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=acceinoss|Ascencios}}

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{l|en|accession}} (to throne)
# {{lb|fr|legal}} {{l|en|accession}}
#: {{ux|fr|accession sociale à la propriété|t=assisted home-ownership scheme|inline=1}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}