==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|noun}} [[accessary]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/æk.ˈsɛs.ə.ɹɪ/}}
* Formerly sometimes stressed on the [[antepenultimate]] syllable, e.g. by {{w|John Ash}}.

===Etymology 1===
* First attested in 1550's.
* From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|accessorie|lang=enm}} {{etyl|ML.|en}} {{term|accessorius|accessōrius|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|accessor||helper, subordinate|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|accessus|lang=la}}.
* Compare English {{term|access|lang=en}}, from same root.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Having a secondary, supplementary or subordinate function by [[accompanying]] as a subordinate; [[aiding]] in a secondary way; being additional; being connected as an [[incident]] or subordinate to a principal; [[contributing]] or being [[contributory]]. Said of persons and things, and, when of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was ''accessory'' to the riot; ''accessory'' sounds in music.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} [[assist|Assisting]] a crime without actually participating in committing the crime itself.
# Present in a minor amount, and not essential.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|having a secondary function}} [[accompanying]], [[contributory]], [[auxiliary]], [[subsidiary]], [[subservient]], [[additional]], [[acceding]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[accessory breathing]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|having a supplementary function}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|كمالي}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|спомагателен}},  {{t+|bg|допълнителен}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|meegeleverd}}, {{t+|nl|toegevoegd}}
* Finnish: [[lisä]]-, [[apu]]-, [[täydentää|täydentävä]], [[ylimääräinen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|accessoire}}
* German: {{t+|de|nebensächlich}}, {{t+|de|zusätzlich}}, {{t-|de|begleitend}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εξάρτημα|n|tr=exártima}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: [[acesora]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessório}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|accesoriu}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вспомогательный|tr=vspomogát'el'nyj}}, {{t+|ru|добавочный|tr=dobávočnyj}}, {{t+|ru|дополнительный|tr=dopolnít'el'nyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|accesorio}}, {{t+|es|auxiliar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|assisting a crime}}
* Albanian: [[bashkëfajtor]] {{m}}, [[bashkëfajtore]] {{f}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|مساعد}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|съучастнически}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|medeplichtig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|avustava}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συνεργός|m|f|tr=synergós}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|соучаствующий|tr=součástvujuš'ij}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|cómplice}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
* {{sense|legal}} First attested in 1414.
* {{sense|fashion}} First attested in 1896.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|accessories}}

# That which belongs to something else deemed the principal; something additional and subordinate, an attachment.
#: ''the '''accessories''' of a mobile phone''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Thomas Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]]:
#*: The aspect and ''accessories'' of a den of banditti.
# {{context|fashion|lang=en}} An article that completes one's basic outfit, such as a scarf or gloves.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or instigator to the commission of an [[offense]]; One who assists after the commission of a crime, but was not present.
# {{context|art|lang=en}} Anything that enters into a work of art without being [[indispensably]] necessary, as mere ornamental parts.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|one who assists in or instigates an offense}} [[abettor]], [[accomplice]], [[ally]], [[coadjutor]], [[accessary]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[accessory before the fact]]
* [[accessory after the fact]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|that which belongs to something else deemed the principal, attachment}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|պիտույք|tr=pituyk’}},  {{t-|hy|պարագա|tr=paraga}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|допълнение}},  {{t+|bg|принадлежност}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|accessoire|n}}, {{t+|nl|aanhangsel|n}}, {{t+|nl|toebehoren|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisävaruste}}, {{t-|fi|varuste}}, {{t-|fi|tarvike}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accessoire|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zubehör|n}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|παρελκόμενο|n|tr=parelkómeno}}, {{t+|el|συμπλήρωμα|n|tr=symplíroma}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tartozék}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|fylgihlutir}}
* Polish: [[akcesorium]] {{n}}, [[akcesoria]] {{p}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessório|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|accesoriu|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|принадлежность|f|tr=prinadléžnostʹ}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|accesorio|m}}, {{t+|es|complemento|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-|vi|phụ kiện đính kèm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clothing accessory}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аксесоар}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|doplněk|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|accessoire|n}}, {{t+|nl|aanhangsel|n}}, {{t+|nl|toebehoren|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|asuste}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accessoire|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Accessoire|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|אקססורי|m|tr=aksésori|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kiegészítő}}
* Japanese: [[アクセサリー]] (akusesarii), [[持ち物]] ([[もちもの]], mochimono)
* Korean: [[액세서리]] (aekseseori)
* Polish: [[dodatek]] {{m}}, [[dodatki]] {{p}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessório|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аксессуар|m|tr=aksɛssuár}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|contributor to an offense}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съучастник}}
* Dutch: [[medeplichtige]] {{m|f}}, [[handlanger]] {{m}}, [[handlangster]] {{f}}
* Finnish: [[avunantaja]]
* German: {{t+|de|Beihilfe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συνεργός|m|f|tr=synergós}}
* Polish: [[współsprawca]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|соучастник|m|tr=součástnik}}, {{t+|ru|соучастница|f|tr=součástnica}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|cómplice|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unessential part in a work of art}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koriste}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accessoire|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Accessoire|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bűntárs}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[accessorio]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[accessorio]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[acessório]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[accesoriu]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[accesorio]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[tillbehör]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====References=====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

[[am:accessory]]
[[ar:accessory]]
[[be:accessory]]
[[cs:accessory]]
[[et:accessory]]
[[el:accessory]]
[[eo:accessory]]
[[fa:accessory]]
[[fr:accessory]]
[[gl:accessory]]
[[ko:accessory]]
[[hi:accessory]]
[[io:accessory]]
[[id:accessory]]
[[it:accessory]]
[[kn:accessory]]
[[ku:accessory]]
[[hu:accessory]]
[[mg:accessory]]
[[ml:accessory]]
[[my:accessory]]
[[nl:accessory]]
[[ps:accessory]]
[[pl:accessory]]
[[pt:accessory]]
[[ru:accessory]]
[[simple:accessory]]
[[fi:accessory]]
[[sv:accessory]]
[[ta:accessory]]
[[te:accessory]]
[[th:accessory]]
[[tr:accessory]]
[[vi:accessory]]
[[zh:accessory]]