==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|obsolete}} {{l|en|acceptaunce}}

===Etymology===
First attested in 1574. From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|acceptance|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|accepter||accept|lang=fro}}. Equivalent to {{suffix|accept|ance|nocat=1}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ək.ˈsɛp.təns/}}
* {{audio|En-us-acceptance.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[accepting]]; a receiving of something offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or [[acquiescence]]; especially, favorable [[reception]]; [[approval]]
#: ''the '''acceptance''' of a gift, office, doctrine, etc.''
#* ''Isaiah 60:7'':
#*: They shall come up with '''acceptance''' on mine altar.
# Belief in something; [[agreement]]; [[assent]].
# State of being accepted.
#* Shakespeare: ''Rape of Lucrece'':
#*: Makes it assured of '''acceptance'''.
# {{context|business|finance|lang=en}} An assent and [[engagement]] by the person on whom a [[bill of exchange]] is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the [[acceptance]].
# {{context|business|finance|lang=en}} The [[bill of exchange]] itself when accepted.
# An [[agreeing]] to terms or [[proposals]] by which a bargain is [[concluded]] and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing [[bought]] as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered, or the taking possession as owner.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.
# {{context|US|government|lang=en}} The act of an authorized representative of the Government by which the Government assents to ownership by it of existing and identified supplies, or approves specific services rendered, as partial or complete performance of a contract.
# The usual or accepted meaning of a word or expression.
# {{context|Australia|New Zealand|pluralonly|lang=en}} A list of [[horse]]s accepted as [[starter]]s in a [[race]].

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|legal|An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law}} In modern law, proposal and '''acceptance''' are the constituent elements into which all contracts are resolved.

====Derived terms====
* {{sense|US Government|act of an authorized representative to assent to ownership or approve services rendered}} [[acceptance of a bill of exchange]]<!-- If this meets CFI, move the following synonyms and def to that entry: '''check''', '''draft''', or '''order''', "an engagement to pay it according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing the word "accepted" across the face of the bill." -->, [[acceptance of goods]] <!-- If this meets CFI, move the following def to that entry: "under the statute of frauds, is an [[intelligent]] acceptance by a party [[knowing]] the nature of the [[transaction]]." -->
* [[acceptance of persons]] <!-- If this meets CFI, move the following to that entry: "[[partiality]], [[favoritism]]. See under [[accept]]." -->
* {{sense|business, finance}} [[banker's acceptance]], [[trade acceptance]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|act of accepting}} [[accepting]], [[receiving]], [[reception]], [[approval]]
* {{sense|State of being accepted}} [[acceptableness]]
* {{sense|commerce|assent and engagement of a bill of exchange}} [[assent]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|receiving of something offered}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приемане}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|přijetí|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akceptaĵo}}
* German: {{t+|de|Annahme|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αποδοχή|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|elfogadás}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|glacadh|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przyjęcie|n}}, {{t+|pl|akceptacja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aceitação|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acceptare|f}}, {{t|ro|acceptanță|f}}, {{t+|ro|primire|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|получение|n|tr=polučénie}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aceptación|f}}, {{t+|es|aprobación|f}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagtanggap}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(commerce) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange is drawn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|акцептиране}}
* German: {{t+|de|Akzeptanz|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aceite|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|акцепт|m|tr=aktsépt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(commerce) The bill itself when accepted.}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vertrag|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|договор|m|tr=dogovór}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An agreeing to terms or proposals}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съгласие}}
* German: {{t+|de|Akzeptanz|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|承諾|tr=shōdaku|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aceitação|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acceptare|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|принятие|n|tr=prinjátie}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagsang-ayon}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(law) An agreeing to the action of another}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|heakskiitmine}}
* German: {{t+|de|Annahme|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aceitação|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acceptare}}, {{t+|ro|accepție}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|одобрение|n|tr=odobrénie}}, {{t+|ru|признание|n|tr=priznánie}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(US Government) The act of an authorized representative of the Government}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(obsolete) acceptation}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(Australia and New Zealand, plural) A list of horses accepted as starters in a race.}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t+|fr|acceptation|f}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: {{t|ia|acceptation}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|accettazione}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: {{t|no|godtagelse|c}}, {{t+|no|aksept|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|aceptación}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: {{qualifier|1}} {{t+|sv|acceptans}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: {{t+|te|అంగీకారం|tr=aMgIkaaraM|sc=Telu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{sense|legal|An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law}} Mozley and Whitely, ''Law Dictionary'':
*: What acts shall amount to such an ''acceptance'' is often a question of great nicety and difficulty.

[[am:acceptance]]
[[ar:acceptance]]
[[cs:acceptance]]
[[de:acceptance]]
[[et:acceptance]]
[[el:acceptance]]
[[es:acceptance]]
[[eo:acceptance]]
[[fa:acceptance]]
[[fr:acceptance]]
[[ko:acceptance]]
[[hi:acceptance]]
[[io:acceptance]]
[[it:acceptance]]
[[kn:acceptance]]
[[ku:acceptance]]
[[lt:acceptance]]
[[hu:acceptance]]
[[mg:acceptance]]
[[ml:acceptance]]
[[ms:acceptance]]
[[my:acceptance]]
[[nl:acceptance]]
[[ja:acceptance]]
[[no:acceptance]]
[[pl:acceptance]]
[[pt:acceptance]]
[[ru:acceptance]]
[[sa:acceptance]]
[[simple:acceptance]]
[[fi:acceptance]]
[[ta:acceptance]]
[[te:acceptance]]
[[tr:acceptance]]
[[vi:acceptance]]
[[zh:acceptance]]