==English==

{{rank|ordinary|forms|complete|949|access|ways|grave|serious}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|accès|lang=fr}} or from {{etyl|la}} {{term|accessus|lang=la}}, perfect passive participle of {{term|accedo|accēdō|approach; accede|lang=la}} < {{term|ad||to, toward, at|lang=la}} + {{term|cedo|cēdō|move, yield|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ăkʹsĕs}}, {{IPA|/ˈæk.sɛs/}}, {{SAMPA|/"{ksEs/}}
* {{audio|en-us-access.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|ac|cess}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A [[way]] or [[means]] of [[approach]]ing or [[enter]]ing; an [[entrance]]; a [[passage]].
#* All '''access''' was thronged. - Milton
# {{uncountable}} The act of approaching or entering; an [[advance]].
# {{uncountable}} The right or ability of approaching or entering; [[admittance]]; [[admission]]; [[accessibility]].
#* I did repel his fetters, and denied His '''access''' to me. - Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, II-i''
# {{uncountable}} Admission to [[sexual]] [[intercourse]].
#* During [[coverture]], '''access''' of the husband shall be presumed, unless the contrary be shown. - Blackstone
# {{countable}} An [[increase]] by [[addition]]; [[accession]]; as, an '''access''' of territory.
#* I, from the influence of thy looks, receive '''access''' in every virtue. - Milton
# {{countable}} An [[onset]], [[attack]], or [[fit]] of disease; an [[ague]] fit.
#* The first '''access''' looked like an apoplexy. - Burnet
# {{countable}} An [[outburst]] of an [[emotion]]; a [[paroxysm]]; a fit of passion; as, an '''access''' of fury.
#* '''1946''': Arnold J. Toynbee, ''A Study of History (Abridgement of Volumes I-VI by D.C. Somervell)''
#*: It appears that, about the middle of the fourth century of the Christian Era, the Germans in the Roman service started the new practice of retaining their native names; and this change of etiquette, which seems to have been abrupt, points to a sudden '''access''' of self-confidence and self-assurance in the souls of the barbarian ''personnel'' which had previously been content to 'go Roman' without reservations.
# {{uncountable}} {{legal}} The right of a [[non-custodial parent]] to visit their [[child]].
# {{uncountable}} {{computing}} The process of locating data in memory.
# {{uncountable}} {{internet}} [[connection|Connection]] to or [[communication]] with a [[computer program]] or to the [[Internet]].

====Derived terms====
* [[direct access]]
* [[random access]]
* [[remote access]]

====Related terms====
* [[accede]]
* [[accessary]]
* [[accessible]]
* [[accessibility]]
* [[accessibly]]
* [[accession]]
* [[accessory]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a way or means of approaching}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|достъп|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přístup|m}}
* Dutch: [[toegang]], [[toegangsweg]], [[passage]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|pääs}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pääsy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accès|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zugang|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρόσβαση|f}}, {{t+|el|προσπέλαση|f}}
* Hebrew: [[גישה]] (gisha)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accesso|m}}
* Latvian: [[piekļuve]]
* Maltese: [[aċċess]]
* Norwegian:
** Bokmål: [[adgang]] {{m}}, [[tilgang]] {{m}}
** Nynorsk: [[åtgang]] {{m}}, [[tilgang]] {{m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dostęp|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acesso|m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|ingång|c}}, {{t-|sv|passage|c}}, {{t+|sv|väg|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the act of approaching or entering}}
* Bulgarian: [[достъп]] {{m}},  {{t+|bg|подход}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přístup|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|benadering}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|pääs}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pääsy}}
* French: [[approche]] {{f}} (''act of approaching''), [[entrée#French|entrée]] {{f}} (''act of entering'')
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zugang|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρόσβαση|f}}, {{t+|el|προσπέλαση|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accesso|m}}
* Maltese: [[aċċess]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dostęp|m}}
* Swedish: [[åtkomst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the right or ability of approaching or entering}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|достъп}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přístup|m}}
* Dutch: [[toegang]], [[toegangsrecht]], [[toelating]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|pääs}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pääsy}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zugang|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ελευθεροκοινωνία|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
** Bokmål: [[adgang]] {{m}}, [[tilgang]] {{m}}
** Nynorsk: [[åtgang]] {{m}}, [[tilgang]] {{m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dostęp|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acesso|m}}
* Swedish: [[tillgång]] {{c}}, [[tillträde]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|admission to sexual intercourse}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|instemming}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[tillgänglighet]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an increase by addition}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toevoeging}}, {{t+|nl|aanwinst}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an onset, attack or fit of disease}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|пристъп}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toeval}}, {{t+|nl|aanval}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accès|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παροξυσμός|m}}, {{t+|el|ξέσπασμα|n}}, {{t+|el|έκρηξη|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|anfall|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acesso|m}}
* Swedish: [[anfall]] {{n}}, [[utbrott]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an outburst of an emotion}}
* Dutch: [[aanval]], [[uitval]]
* French: {{t+|fr|accès|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παροξυσμός|m}}, {{t+|el|ξέσπασμα|n}}, {{t+|el|έκρηξη|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[anfall]] {{n}}, [[utbrudd]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acesso|m}}
* Swedish: [[anfall]] {{n}}, [[utbrott]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the right to visit one's child}}
* Dutch: [[bezoekrecht]] {{n}}
* Norwegian: [[besøksrett]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[umgängesrätt]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in computing: the process of locating data in memory}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accès|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zugriff|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρόσβαση|f}}, {{t+|el|προσπέλαση|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|aksess|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dostęp|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acesso|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|communication with a computer program or the Internet}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zugriff|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρόσβαση|f}}, {{t+|el|προσπέλαση|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|aksess|m}}, {{t-|no|tilgang|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dostęp|m}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|erişim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[akses]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[accesso]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[アクセス]] (akusesu)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t-|es|acceso|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|access|es}}

# {{transitive}} To gain or obtain access to.
# {{transitive}} {{computing}} To have access to ([[data]]).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to gain or obtain access to}}
* Dutch: [[toegang]] [[hebben]] (tot), [[bereiken]], [[verkrijgen]]
* Finnish: [[päästä]] [[käsiksi]]
* Norwegian: [[få]] [[tilgang]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acessar}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|acceder}}
* Swedish: [[göra åtkomlig]], [[ta fram]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: to have access to (data)}}
* Dutch: [[toegang]] [[hebben]] (tot)
* Finnish: [[päästä]] [[käsiksi]]
* German: [[Zugang haben]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[aksessere]]
* Portuguese: [[acessar]]
* Swedish: [[ha åtkomst]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[am:access]]
[[ar:access]]
[[be:access]]
[[de:access]]
[[et:access]]
[[el:access]]
[[es:access]]
[[fa:access]]
[[fr:access]]
[[gl:access]]
[[ko:access]]
[[hy:access]]
[[io:access]]
[[id:access]]
[[it:access]]
[[kn:access]]
[[kk:access]]
[[ku:access]]
[[lt:access]]
[[li:access]]
[[hu:access]]
[[ml:access]]
[[mr:access]]
[[nl:access]]
[[ja:access]]
[[no:access]]
[[pl:access]]
[[pt:access]]
[[ro:access]]
[[ru:access]]
[[simple:access]]
[[fi:access]]
[[sv:access]]
[[ta:access]]
[[te:access]]
[[th:access]]
[[tr:access]]
[[uk:access]]
[[vi:access]]
[[zh:access]]