==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Et ===

From {{inh|en|enm|accent}}, from {{der|en|frm|accent}}, from {{der|en|fro|acent}}, from {{der|en|la|accentus}}, past participle of {{m|la|accinō||sing to, sing along}}. The word {{m|ang|accent}} had been borrowed into Old English already, but was lost and reborrowed in Middle English.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP|}} {{enPR|ăkʹsənt}}, {{IPA|/ˈæk.sənt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ăkʹsĕnt}}, {{IPA|/ˈæk.sɛnt/|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|linguistics}} A higher-pitched or stronger [[articulation]] of a particular [[syllable]] of a word or phrase in order to [[distinguish]] it from the others or to [[emphasize]] it.
#: ''In the word "careful", the '''accent''' is placed on the first syllable.''
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} Emphasis or importance in general.
#: ''At this hotel, the '''accent''' is on luxury.''
# {{lb|en|orthography}} A [[mark]] or [[character]] used in writing, in order to indicate the place of the [[spoken]] accent, or to indicate the nature or quality of the vowel marked.
#: ''The name Cézanne is written with an acute '''accent'''.''
# {{senseid|en|modulation of the voice}} [[modulation|Modulation]] of the voice in speaking; the manner of speaking or pronouncing; a peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice, expressing emotion; [[tone]].
#* '''1608''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[w:King Lear|King Lear]]'', II-ii
#*: I know, sir, I am no flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain '''accent''' was a plain knave; which for my part I will not be, though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to 't.
#* '''1696''', [[w: Matthew Prior|Matthew Prior]], "From Celia to Damon", in ''Poems on Several Occasions''
#*: The tender '''Accent''' of a Woman's Cry / Will pass unheard, will unregarded die;
#* {{quote-book
|lang=en
|year=1815
|author={{w|Jane Austen}}
|title={{w|Emma}}
|volume=I
|section=chapter 15
|passage=And he repeated her words with such assurance of '''accent''', such boastful pretence of amazement, that she could not help replying with quickness …}}
# {{lb|en|linguistics|sociolinguistics}} The distinctive manner of [[pronouncing]] a language associated with a particular region, social group, etc., whether of a native speaker or a foreign speaker; the [[phonetic]] and [[phonological]] aspects of a [[dialect]].
#: ''a foreign '''accent''''' &nbsp; ''an American, British or Australian '''accent'''''
#: ''a broad Irish '''accent'''''
#: ''a hint of a German '''accent'''''
# {{lb|en|linguistics|sign languages}} A distinctive manner of [[producing]] a [[sign language]], such as someone who does not normally use a certain sign language might have when using it.
#*{{quote-text|lang=en|year=2008|author=Jeremy Linn Brunson|title=The Practice and Organization of Sign Language|page=76
|passage=I believe I still retain some of my hearing '''accent''' when I use American Sign Language.}}
#*'''2015''' December 3, ''[./http://www.pri.org/stories/2015-12-03/philadelphia-accent-sign-language There's a distinctly Philadelphia '''accent''' in American Sign Language]''
# A [[word]]; a significant [[tone]] or [[sound]].
# {{lb|en|usually|plural only}} Expressions in general; [[speech]].
#* Dryden
#*: Winds! on your wings to Heaven her '''accents''' bear, / Such words as Heaven alone is fit to hear.
# {{lb|en|prosody|poetry}} Stress laid on certain syllables of a [[verse]].
# {{lb|en|music}} A regularly [[recur]]ring [[stress]] upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the [[measure]].
# {{lb|en|music}} A special [[emphasis]] of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure.
# {{lb|en|music}} The rhythmical accent, which marks [[phrase]]s and [[section]]s of a [[period]].
# {{lb|en|music}} The [[expressive]] emphasis and [[shading]] of a passage.
#: {{rfquotek|J. S. Dwight}}
# {{lb|en|music}} A mark used to represent specific stress on a note.
# {{lb|en|mathematics}} A mark placed at the right hand of a [[letter]], and a little above it, to distinguish [[magnitude]]s of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as '''y'''', '''y<nowiki>''</nowiki>'''.
# {{lb|en|geometry}} A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating [[minute]]s of a [[degree]], [[second]]s, etc., as in '''12' 27<nowiki>''</nowiki>''', meaning twelve minutes and twenty-seven seconds.
# {{lb|en|engineering}} A mark used to denote [[feet]] and [[inch]]es, as in '''6' 10<nowiki>''</nowiki>''', meaning six feet ten inches.
# Emphasis laid on a part of an [[artistic]] design or [[composition]]; an emphasized detail, in particular a detail in sharp [[contrast]] to its surroundings.
# A very small [[gemstone]] set into a [[piece]] of [[jewellery]].
# A distinctive feature or quality.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[utterance|Utterance]].

====Usage notes====
The word "accent" is often used specifically to refer to manners of speech that differ significantly from the local standard or one's personal speech.

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|accent mark}}
* {{l|en|acute accent}}
* {{l|en|grave accent}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|primary accent}}
* {{l|en|secondary accent}}
* {{l|en|tonic accent}}
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|emphasis or importance in general}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|на́ціск|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akcento}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|painopiste}}, {{t+|fi|pääpaino}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingue: {{t|ie|accentu}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|uzsvars|m}}, {{t|lv|akcents|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ударе́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|акце́нт|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|modulation of the voice in speaking}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|painotus}}, {{t|fi|äänensävy}}, {{t+|fi|sävy}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tono|m}}, {{t+|it|modulazione|f}}, {{t+|it|enfasi|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distinctive manner of producing a sign language}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murre}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|word, significant tone or sound}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aksentti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Betonung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accento|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expressions, speech}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|произноше́ние|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puhe}}, {{t+|fi|ilmaisu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: mark to represent specific stress on a note}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aksenttimerkki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geometry: mark indicating minutes and seconds of a degree}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkku}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|emphasis laid on a part of an artistic design or composition}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|korostus}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|akcents|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|акце́нт|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|very small gemstone set into a piece of jewellery}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|utterance}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|accent|n}} <!-- Was: coating that contrasts with the surroundings -->
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|accento}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+check|ro|accent}}
* Swedish: {{t+check|sv|accent}} <!-- Was: coating that contrasts with the surroundings -->
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|circumflex}}

====References====
* “[https://archive.org/stream/oed01arch#page/50/mode/2up Accent, ''sb.'']” on pages 50–51 of § 1 (A) of volume I (A–B, ed. [[w:James Murray (lexicographer)|James Augustus Henry Murray]]?, 1888) of ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles]]'' (1st ed.)
* “[http://www.oed.com/oed2/00001141 accent, ''n.'']” in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' (2nd ed., 1989)

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|en|frm|accenter}}, from {{der|en|fro|accenter}}, from {{der|en|la|accentō}}, from {{m|la|accentus}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|ăk-sĕntʹ}}, {{IPA|/ækˈsɛnt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ăk-sĕntʹ|ăkʹsĕnt}}, {{IPA|/ækˈsɛnt/|/ˈæk.sɛnt/|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To express the accent of vocally; to utter with accent.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To mark emphatically; to emphasize; to accentuate; to make prominent.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To mark with written accents.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|to express the accent of|accentuate}}

{{trans-see|to mark with written accents|accentuate}}

====References====
* “[https://archive.org/stream/oed01arch#page/51/mode/2up Accent, ''v.'']” on page 51/3 of § 1 (A) of volume I (A–B, ed. [[w:James Murray (lexicographer)|James Augustus Henry Murray]]?, 1888) of ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles]]'' (1st ed.)
* “[http://www.oed.com/oed2/00001142 accent, ''v.'']” in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' (2nd ed., 1989)

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{der|ca|la|accentus}}.

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|accent}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ca|accentuar}}

====Further reading====
* {{R:IEC2}}

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{der|da|la|accentus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/akˈsɛnt/|[ɑɡ̊ˈsɛnd̥]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|er}}

# {{l|en|accent}} {{gloss|a nonstandard way of pronouncing, a mark used in writing, a stronger articulation}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|er}}

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nl|dum|accent}}, ultimately from {{der|nl|la|accentus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/ɑkˈsɛnt/}}
* {{audio|Nl-accent.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{hyphenation|lang=nl|ac|cent}}
* {{rhymes|ɛnt|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|n|-en|accentje}}

# {{l|en|accent}} (nonstandard way of pronouncing)

====Related terms====
* {{l|nl|accentueren}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|af|aksent}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|Fr-accent.ogg|Audio|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|accent}}, [[manner]] or [[tone]] of [[speech]]
# {{lb|fr|linguistics}} an {{l|en|accent}} symbol
# {{lb|fr|linguistics}} [[accent]], [[stress]]
# {{lb|fr|music}} [[strain]], [[section]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|accent aigu}}
* {{l|fr|accent grave}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Norman==

===Etymology===
From {{der|nrf|fro|acent}}, from {{der|nrf|la|accentus}}, from {{m|la|ad}} + {{m|la|cantus||song}}.

===Noun===
{{nrf-noun|m}}

# {{lb|nrf|linguistics}} {{l|en|accent}}, [[stress]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|ang|la|accentus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɑk.kent/|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|m}}

# an [[accent]]
#: ''baric'', ðæt ys hefig '''accent''' — baric, that is a heavy accent

====Declension====
===References===
* 1916, John R. Clark, "A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary for the Use of Students", accent
* 2010, J. Bosworth, An Anglo-Saxon Dictionary Online (T. N. Toller & Others, Eds.), accent

----

==Scots==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/a(k)ˈsɛnt/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# [[accent#English|accent]]

[[Category:Scots 2-syllable words]]
[[Category:Scots countable nouns]]
[[Category:sco:Linguistics]]
[[Category:sco:Sociolinguistics]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/akːˈsɛnːt/|/akːˈsaŋː/|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# an {{l|en|accent}}, an [[emphasis]], a [[stress]] (in articulation)
# an accent, a [[mark]] on a letter (grave or acute)
# an accent, a voice influenced by dialect or another language

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-er}}