==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1611.
* {{sense|motor vehicle}} First attested in 1900.
* {{suffix|accelerate|or|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/æk.ˈsɛl.ə.ˌɹeɪ.tɚ/|/æk.ˈsɛl.ə.ˌɹeɪt.ɚ/|/ɪk.ˈsɛl.ə.ˌɹeɪt.ɚ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-accelerator.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One who, or that which, [[accelerate]]s.
# A device for causing acceleration.
# {{context|chemistry|lang=en}} A substance which speeds up chemical reactions.
# {{context|vehicle|lang=en}} An [[accelerator]] [[pedal]].
# {{context|photography|lang=en}} A [[chemical]] that reduces [[development]] time.
# {{context|physics|lang=en}} A device that accelerates charged [[subatomic]] [[particles]].
# {{context|physiology|medical|lang=en}} A [[muscle]] or [[nerve]] that speed the performance of an action.
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} [[accelerator key]]
#* '''2002''', Davis Howard Chapman, ''Sams Teach Yourself Visual C++ .NET in 21 Days'' (page 187)
#*: If they had allowed single-character '''accelerators''', Windows wouldn't be able to determine whether the character was input or a shortcut.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|accelerator pedal|US}} [[gas pedal]], [[gas]]
* {{sense|accelerates subatomic particles}} [[particle accelerator]], [[atom smasher]]

====Derived terms====
* [[accelerator]] [[pedal]], ''(automotive):'' a pedal used to control a vehicle's speed
* [[accelerator nerves]], ''(physiology):'' nerves that speed up a bodily function
* [[accelerator card]], ''(computers):'' a device that speeds up computer processing
* [[accelerator key]], ''(computers):'' a key which a user can press to activate a menu or other element
* [[particle accelerator]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one who, or that which, accelerates}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ускорител}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kiihdyttäjä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accélérateur|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Beschleuniger|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|забрзувач|m|tr=zab'rzuvač}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pemecut}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acelerador|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|accelerator|m}}, {{t|ro|iuțitor|m}}, {{t|ro|repezitor|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ускори́тель|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acelerador|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a device for causing acceleration}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ускорител}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|versneller|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiihdytin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accélérateur|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Beschleuniger|m}}
* Interlingua: accelerator
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|забрзувач|m|tr=zab'rzuvač}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pemecut}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acelerador}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|accelerator|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ускори́тель|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acelerador|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|accelerator|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pandarasig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a substance which speeds up chemical reactions}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|катализатор}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|katalysator|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|katalyytti}}, {{t+|fi|kiihdytin}}
* German: {{t|de|Beschleuniger|m}}, {{t+|de|Katalysator|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|катализатор|m|tr=katalizátor}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pencepat}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|катализа́тор|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|accelerator|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|accelerator pedal}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|педал за газта}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gaspedaal|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaasupoljin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accélérateur|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gaspedal|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gázpedál}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|acceleratore}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|アクセル|tr=akuseru|sc=Jpan}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|педал за гас|m|tr=pédal za gas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|gasspedal|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acelerador|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|pedală de accelerare|f}}, {{t+|ro|accelerator|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|педа́ль га́за|f}}, {{t+|ru|газ|m}}, {{t+|ru|акселера́тор|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acelerador|m}}, {{qualifier|colloquial, Chile}} {{t+|es|chala|f}}, {{t+|es|chancla|f}} {{qualifier|Costa Rica}}, {{t+|es|chancleta|f}} {{qualifier|Colombia}}, {{t+|es|chola|f}} {{qualifier|Venezuela}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|gaspedal|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Auto parts]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|accelerātor}}

# {{inflection of|accelerō||2|s|futr|pasv|impr|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|accelerō||3|s|futr|pasv|impr|lang=la}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# {{context|lang=sv|chemistry}} accelerator; a substance which speeds up chemical reactions.
# {{context|lang=sv|physics}} accelerator; a device which accelerates different kinds of particles to large velocities

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-r|3=acceleratore}}

[[af:accelerator]]
[[ar:accelerator]]
[[be:accelerator]]
[[ca:accelerator]]
[[cs:accelerator]]
[[de:accelerator]]
[[et:accelerator]]
[[el:accelerator]]
[[eu:accelerator]]
[[fa:accelerator]]
[[fr:accelerator]]
[[gl:accelerator]]
[[ko:accelerator]]
[[hy:accelerator]]
[[hi:accelerator]]
[[io:accelerator]]
[[id:accelerator]]
[[is:accelerator]]
[[it:accelerator]]
[[kn:accelerator]]
[[sw:accelerator]]
[[ku:accelerator]]
[[li:accelerator]]
[[hu:accelerator]]
[[mg:accelerator]]
[[ml:accelerator]]
[[ms:accelerator]]
[[my:accelerator]]
[[nl:accelerator]]
[[ps:accelerator]]
[[pl:accelerator]]
[[pt:accelerator]]
[[ro:accelerator]]
[[ru:accelerator]]
[[simple:accelerator]]
[[fi:accelerator]]
[[sv:accelerator]]
[[ta:accelerator]]
[[te:accelerator]]
[[th:accelerator]]
[[tr:accelerator]]
[[vi:accelerator]]
[[zh:accelerator]]