==English==

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*ḱh₂d-}}
* First attested in the late 14th century.
* {{sense|grammar}} First attested in the mid 15th century.
* From {{inh|en|enm|accidence}}, {{m|enm|accidens}}, from {{der|en|la|accidentia||accidental matters}}, from {{m|la|accidēns}}, present participle of {{m|la|accidere||to happen}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈæk.sə.dəns/|/ˈæk.sə.dɛns/|/ˈæk.sə.dənts/|/ˈæk.sə.dɛnts/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-accidence.wav|Audio (Southern England)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|grammar}} The [[accident]]s or [[inflections]] of words; the [[rudiments]] of grammar.
#* '''1627''', [[w:John Brinsley the Elder|John Brinsley]], ''Ludus Literarius; or, The Grammar Schoole'', London: John Bellamie, p. xiii,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/ludusliterariuso00brinuoft]</sup>
#*: To teach Schollars how to bee able to reade well, and write true Orthography, in a short space. 2. To make them ready in all points of '''Accedence''' and Grammar, to answere any necessary question therein.
#* '''1669''', {{w|John Milton}}, '''''Accedence''' Commenc’t Grammar'' (title of a Latin grammar)<sup>[http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/001019757]</sup>
#* '''1871''', Review of ''An Elementary Greek Grammar'' by [[w:William Watson Goodwin|William W. Goodwin]], ''{{w|North American Review}}'', Volume 112, No. 231, 1 April, 1871, p. 427,<sup>[http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/000677725]</sup>
#*: Our best schools send every year to college boys who know their '''accidence''' reasonably, and in some cases admirably well {{...}}
#* {{quote-book|1=en|year=1959|year_published=1972|author=Anthony Burgess|authorlink=Anthony Burgess|title=Beds in the East|series=The Malayan Trilogy|page=607|passage="Room. Rooms. It same thing." Jalii was above '''accidence'''.}}
# The rudiments of any [[subject]].
#* '''1904''', {{w|Edwin Sidney Hartland}}, ''Popular Studies in Mythology, Romance and Folklore'', London: David Nutt, p. 67,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/folklorewhatisi00hartgoog]</sup>
#*: When Franklin, playing with his kite in a thunderstorm, brought down sparks from the heavens, he was learning the '''accidence''' of that science of Electricity which has given us the Telegraph and Telephone {{...}}
# A [[book]] containing the [[first principle]]s of [[grammar]]; {{lb|en|by extension}} a book containing the [[rudiment]]s of any [[subject]] or [[art]].
#* '''1562''', {{w|Gerard Legh}}, ''The Accedence of Armorie'', 1597 edition, Preface,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/accedenceofarmor00legh]</sup>
#*: And forsomuch as this treateth of blazon of Armes, and of the worthie bearers of them {{...}} I therefore, have named this, the '''''Accedence''' of Armorie'' {{...}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Merry Wives|IV|1|text=Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits nothing in the world at his book. I pray you, ask him some questions in his '''accidence'''.}}
#* '''1759''', ''{{w|The Annual Register}}'', p. 295,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/008903231]</sup>
#*: Two years afterwards he got part of an '''accidence''' and grammar, and about three fourths of Littleton’s dictionary. He conceived a violent passion for reading {{...}}
#* '''1895''', Maud Wilder Goodwin, ''The Colonial Cavalier; or, Southern Life Before the Revolution'', Boston: Little Brown & Co., pp. 230-231,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/colonialcavalier00good]</sup>
#*: Hugh Jones, a Fellow of William and Mary College, writes of his countrymen that, for the most part, they are only desirous of learning what is absolutely necessary, in the shortest way. To meet this peculiarity Mr. Jones states that he has designed a royal road to learning, consisting of a series of text-books embracing an '''''Accidence''' to Christianity'', an '''''Accidence''' to the Mathematicks'', and an '''''Accidence''' to the English Tongue''.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|accident}}

{{Webster 1913}}