==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in 1386.
* {{suffix|accident|al}}
* Compare French ''[[accidentel]]'', earlier ''accidental''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌæk.sə.ˈdɛn.təl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-accidental.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛntəl}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[happening|Happening]] by chance, or [[unexpectedly]]; taking place not according to the usual course of things; [[casual]]; [[fortuitous]]
#: ''an '''accidental''' visit''
# [[nonessential|Nonessential]]; not necessary belonging; [[incidental]]
#: ''are ''accidental'' to a play''
# {{context|music|lang=en}} Foreign to the key signature or a proper harmony.

====Usage notes====
* We speak of a thing as '''accidental''' when it falls out as by chance, and not in the regular course of things; as, an '''accidental''' meeting, an '''accidental''' advantage, etc.
* We call a thing '''incidental''' when it falls, as it were, ''into'' some regular course of things, but is secondary, and forms no essential part [[thereof]]; as, an '''incidental''' remark, an '''incidental''' evil, an '''incidental''' benefit.
* We speak of a thing as '''casual''', when it falls out or happens, as it were, by mere chance, without being [[prearranged]] or [[premeditated]]; as, a '''casual''' remark or encounter; a '''casual''' [[observer]]. An idea of the [[unimportant]] is attached to what is '''casual'''.
* '''Fortuitous''' is applied to what occurs without any known cause, and in opposition to what has been [[foreseen]]; as, a '''fortuitous''' [[concourse]] of atoms.
* We call a thing '''contingent''' when it is such that, considered in itself, it may or may not happen, but is dependent for its existence on something else; as, the time of my coming will be '''contingent''' on [[intelligence]] yet to be received.

====Synonyms====
* [[adventitious]], [[casual]], [[contingent]], [[fortuitous]], [[incidental]], [[occasional]], [[serendipitous]]

====Derived terms====
* [[accidental chords]] 
* [[accidental colors]] 
* [[accidental point]] 
* [[accidental lights]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|happening by chance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|случаен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|accidental|m|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|nahodilý}}, {{t+|cs|náhodný}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|neatendita}}, {{t|eo|hazarda}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sattumanvarainen}}, {{t+|fi|sattumalta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accidentel}}
* German: {{t+|de|versehentlich}}, {{t+|de|zufällig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מקרי|m|tr=miqry|sc=Hebr}}, {{t|he|מקרית|f|tr=miqryt|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accidentale}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|偶然|alt=偶然の|tr=ぐうぜん, gūzen no}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|accidental|m|n}}, {{t|ro|întâmplător|m|n}}, {{t|ro|accidentală|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|случайный|tr=slučájnyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|accidental}}, {{t|es|casual}}, {{t+|es|imprevisto}}, {{t+|es|fortuito}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A property which is not essential; a [[nonessential]]; anything [[happening]] [[accidentally]].
#* [[Fuller]] — He conceived it just that '''accidentals''' ... should sink with the substance of the accusation.
# {{context|painting|pluralonly|lang=en}} Those [[fortuitous]] effects produced by [[luminous]] rays falling on certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.
# {{context|music|lang=en}} A [[sharp]], [[flat]], or [[natural]], occurring not at the [[commencement]] of a piece of music as the [[signature]], but before a particular note.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a property which is not essential}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|несъществено качество}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zufall|m}}, {{t+|de|Versehen|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(in plural, painting)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(music)}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|accident|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: {{t+|id|kebetulan}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: {{t|ia|accidental}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|accidentale}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: {{t+|ja|偶然|tr=[[ぐうぜん]], gūzen|sc=Jpan}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t+|pt|acidental}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Catalan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aɫ|lang=ca}}

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|mf}}

# {{l/en|accidental}}

----

==Romanian==

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj|mn}}

# [[#English|accidental]]

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|pl=accidentales}}

# [[accidental]]

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m|es}}

# {{context|music|lang=es}} [[accidental]]

====Synonyms====
* [[accidente]]

[[am:accidental]]
[[ar:accidental]]
[[be:accidental]]
[[ca:accidental]]
[[cy:accidental]]
[[et:accidental]]
[[el:accidental]]
[[es:accidental]]
[[fa:accidental]]
[[fr:accidental]]
[[ko:accidental]]
[[hi:accidental]]
[[io:accidental]]
[[it:accidental]]
[[ku:accidental]]
[[lt:accidental]]
[[hu:accidental]]
[[mg:accidental]]
[[ml:accidental]]
[[my:accidental]]
[[nl:accidental]]
[[ja:accidental]]
[[ps:accidental]]
[[pl:accidental]]
[[pt:accidental]]
[[ro:accidental]]
[[ru:accidental]]
[[simple:accidental]]
[[fi:accidental]]
[[tl:accidental]]
[[ta:accidental]]
[[te:accidental]]
[[chr:accidental]]
[[tr:accidental]]
[[vi:accidental]]
[[zh:accidental]]