{{wikipedia|dab=accolade}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/'ækəleɪd/}}

===Etymology===
From {{F.}} ''[[#French|accolade]]'', from Provençal ''[[acolada]]'', from {{It.}} ''[[accolata]]'', from ''[[accollare]]'' to [[embrace]], from {{L.}}''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[collum]]'' "neck".

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# An expression of approval; praise.
# A special acknowledgment; an award.
# A [[salutation]] marking the [[conferring]] of [[knighthood]], consisting of an [[embrace]] or a [[kiss]], and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat of a sword.
# {{music}} A brace used to join two or more [[staves]].
# (American Military) Written Presidential certificate recognizing service by personnel who died or were wounded in action between [[1917]] and [[1918]], or who died in service between [[1941]] and [[1947]], or died of wounds received in [[Korea]] between [[June 27]], [[1950]] and [[July 27]], [[1954]]. Service of civilians who died overseas or as a result of injury or disease contracted while serving in a civilian capacity with the United States Armed Forces during the dates and/or in areas prescribed is in like manner recognized.

====References====
*(4) http://www.afms1.belvoir.army.mil/dictionary/a.htm#accolade

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accolad|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[embrace]] or [[kiss]] in salutation.
# {{transitive}} To [[confer]] an [[knighthood]] on.

----
==French==
===Etymology===
From Provençal ''[[acolada]]'', from {{It.}} ''[[accolata]]'', from ''[[accollare]]'' to [[embrace]], from {{L.}}''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[collum]]'' "neck".

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}
#curly [[bracket]]

[[ar:accolade]]
[[de:accolade]]
[[et:accolade]]
[[fa:accolade]]
[[fr:accolade]]
[[io:accolade]]
[[it:accolade]]
[[hu:accolade]]
[[ru:accolade]]
[[sv:accolade]]
[[vi:accolade]]
[[zh:accolade]]