==English==
{{was wotd|2008|August|2}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈkɔːd/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˈkɔɹd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-accord.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(ɹ)d|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
* First attested in the late 13th century.
* From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|acorden}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|acorder}} (compare modern French {{m|fr|accord}} and {{m|en|accorder}}), from {{etyl|VL.|en}} {{m|la|*accordō||to be heart to heart with}}, formed from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|en|ad}} + {{m|la|cor||heart}}.
* The verb is first attested in early 12th century.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Agreement or [[concurrence]] of opinion, will, or action.
#* '''1769''', ''[[s:Bible_(King_James)|The King James Bible - Oxford Standard Text]]'', [[s:Bible_(King_James)/Acts#Chapter_1|Acts 1:14]]
#*: These all continued with one '''accord''' in prayer.
#* Francis Bacon
#*: a mediator of an '''accord''' and peace between them
# A [[harmony]] in sound, [[pitch]] and [[tone]]; [[concord]].
#* '''17th''' '''century''', "The Self-Subsistence of the Soul", [[w:John Davies (poet)|Sir John Davies]],
#*: Those sweet '''accords''' are even the angels' lays.
# Agreement or harmony of things in general.
#: ''the '''accord''' of light and shade in painting''
# {{label|en|legal}} An agreement between parties in [[controversy]], by which satisfaction for an injury is [[stipulated]], and which, when [[executed]], prevents a lawsuit.
#: {{rfquotek|Blackstone}}
# {{label|en|international law}} An international agreement.
#: The Geneva '''Accord''' of 1954 ended the French-Indochinese War.
# {{label|en|obsolete}} [[assent|Assent]]
# Voluntary or spontaneous impulse to act.
#: ''Nobody told me to do it. I did it of my own '''accord'''.''
#* Bible, Leviticus xxv. 5
#*: That which groweth of its own '''accord''' of thy harvest thou shalt not reap.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|concurrence of opinion}} {{l|en|consent}}, {{l|en|assent}}
* {{sense|international agreement}} {{l|en|treaty}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|of its own accord}}, {{l|en|of one's own accord}}
* {{l|en|with one accord}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|chord}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|agreement or concurrence of opinion}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَفَاهُم|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|সামঞ্জস্য}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съгласие}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|panaghiuyon}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|souhlas|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kokkulepe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|entente|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Übereinstimmung|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הסכם|m|tr=heskem}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|akordo}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|sepakat|alt=kesepakatan}}, {{t+|id|setuju|alt=persetujuan}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|accordo}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accordo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|合意|tr=[[ごうい]], gōi|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|협정|sc=Kore}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|porozumienie}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acordo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acord|n}}, {{t+|ro|înțelegere|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|согла́сие|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acuerdo|m}}, {{t+|es|convenio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|harmony of sounds}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|সামঞ্জস্য}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хармония}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|akkoord|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Akkord|m}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|일치|sc=Kore}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|akord}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|agreement, harmony, or just correspondence}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|সামঞ্জস্য}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съгласие}}, {{t+|bg|мир}}, {{t+|bg|хармония}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an agreement}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|সামঞ্জস্য}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|条约|tr=tiáoyuē|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|协议|tr=xiéyì|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|договор|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acuerdo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make to agree or [[correspond]]; to suit one thing to another; to [[adjust]].
#* '''1590''', {{w|Philip Sidney}}, ''{{w|The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia}}'', p.150:
#*: [H]er hands '''accorded''' the Lutes musicke to the voice;
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To bring (people) to an agreement; to [[reconcile]], settle, adjust or [[harmonize]].
#* {{RQ:Spenser Faerie Queene}}, Book III:
#*: But ''Satyrane'' forth stepping, did them stay / And with faire treatie pacifide their ire, / Then when they were '''accorded''' from the fray{{nb...}}
#* {{w|Robert South}} (1634–1716)
#*: all which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult, can never be '''accorded''' but by a competent stock of critical learning
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To agree or [[correspond]]; to be in harmony.
#* '''1593''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:The Second Part of King Henry the Sixth|The Second Part of King Henry the Sixth]]'', III-i:
#*: For things are often spoke and seldom meant; / But that my heart '''accordeth''' with my tongue,—
#* '''1671''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''{{w|Paradise Regained}}'', [[s:Paradise Regained/Book 3|Book III]]:
#*: [T]hy actions to thy words '''accord''';
#* {{RQ:EHough PrqsPrc|II|0147}}
#*: Carried somehow, somewhither, for some reason, on these surging floods, were these travelers,{{nb...}}. Even such a boat as the ''Mount Vernon'' offered a total deck space so cramped as to leave secrecy or privacy well out of the question, even had the motley and democratic assemblage of passengers been disposed to '''accord''' either.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To agree in pitch and tone.
# {{lb|en|transitive|dated|legal}} To [[grant]] as suitable or proper; to [[concede]] or [[award]].
#* '''1951''', United Nations' [[s:1951 Refugee Convention|Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees]], article 14:
#*: In respect of the protection of industrial property,{{...}}a refugee shall be '''accorded''' in the country in which he has his habitual residence the same protection as is '''accorded''' to nationals of that country.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To give consent.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|archaic}} To arrive at an agreement.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|transitive: to make to agree or correspond}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съгласувам}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zgodzić się}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acordar}}, {{t+|es|concordar|alt=concordar con}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transitive: to bring to an agreement}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: to agree or correspond; to be in harmony}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гармони́ровать|n}}, {{t+|ru|соотве́тствовать|n}}, {{t+|ru|согласо́вываться|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transitive: to grant}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|предлагам помощ}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|andma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accorder}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|предоставля́ть|n}}, {{t+|ru|ока́зывать|n}}, {{t+|ru|жа́ловать|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|accord with}}
* {{l|en|accordance}}
* {{l|en|according}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|accordingly}}
* {{l|en|accordment}}
* {{l|en|defence accord}}
{{der-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-accord.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{IPA|/a.kɔʁ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[chord]]
# [[agreement]]

====Derived terms====
* [[accorder]]
* [[d'accord]]
* [[désaccord]]

===Anagrams===
* [[cocard#French|cocard]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Norman==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=nrf}}

===Noun===
{{nrf-noun|m}}

# {{lb|nrf|Jersey}} [[agreement]]

[[ar:accord]]
[[ca:accord]]
[[cs:accord]]
[[de:accord]]
[[et:accord]]
[[el:accord]]
[[es:accord]]
[[eo:accord]]
[[eu:accord]]
[[fa:accord]]
[[fr:accord]]
[[gl:accord]]
[[ko:accord]]
[[hy:accord]]
[[hi:accord]]
[[hr:accord]]
[[io:accord]]
[[id:accord]]
[[it:accord]]
[[kn:accord]]
[[ku:accord]]
[[li:accord]]
[[hu:accord]]
[[mg:accord]]
[[ml:accord]]
[[my:accord]]
[[nl:accord]]
[[ja:accord]]
[[ps:accord]]
[[pl:accord]]
[[pt:accord]]
[[ru:accord]]
[[simple:accord]]
[[fi:accord]]
[[sv:accord]]
[[tl:accord]]
[[ta:accord]]
[[te:accord]]
[[th:accord]]
[[tg:accord]]
[[chr:accord]]
[[tr:accord]]
[[vi:accord]]
[[zh:accord]]