==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|acompaignier||to associate with}}, from ''[[compaign]]'', {{term|compain||companion}}. See [[company]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/əˈkʌm.pə.ni/}}
* {{audio|en-us-accompany.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accompan|i|ed}}

# {{intransitive|music}} To perform an accompanying part or parts in a [[composition]].
# {{transitive}} To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with.
#: ''He '''accompanied''' his speech with a bow.''
#* {{rfdate}}  [[w:Richard Glover (poet)|Richard Glover]]:
#*: The Persian dames, … / In sumptuous cars, '''accompanied''' his march.
#* '''1581''', [[w:Philip Sidney|Philip Sidney]], ''An Apology of Poetry, or a Defense of Poesy'', Book I:
#*: They are never alone that are '''accompanied''' with noble thoughts.
#* '''1979''', [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''The History of England'':
#*: He was '''accompanied''' by two carts filled with wounded rebels.
# {{transitive|music}} To perform an accompanying part next to another instrument.
#: ''The strings were '''accompanied''' by two woodwinds.''
# {{intransitive|obsolete}} To associate in a company; to keep company.
#* {{rfdate}} Holland:
#*: Men say that they will drive away one another, … and not '''accompany''' together.
# {{intransitive|obsolete}} To [[cohabit]] (with).
# {{transitive|obsolete}} To cohabit with.
{{rfex|the obsolete cases}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|go with}} [[attend]], [[escort]], go with
:* We '''accompany''' those with whom we go as companions. The word imports an ''equality'' of station.
:* We '''attend''' those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of ''subordination''.
:* We '''escort''' those whom we attend with a view to ''guard and protect''.
:*: A gentleman '''accompanies''' a friend to some public place; he '''attends''' or '''escorts''' a lady.

====Related terms====
* [[accompaniment]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съпровождам}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|acompanyar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|伴奏|tr=bànzòu|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|begeleiden}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|säestää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|accompagner}}
* German: {{t+|de|begleiten}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kísér}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|аккомпанировать|tr=akkompanírovat'|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}/{{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|acompañar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ackompanjera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to attend as a companion}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|придружавам}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|陪伴|tr=péibàn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|陪同|tr=péitóng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|doprovodit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vergezellen}}, {{t+|nl|begeleiden}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|olla seurana}}, {{t+|fi|olla}} {{t+|fi|jonkun}} {{t+|fi|kanssa}}, {{t+|fi|olla}} {{t+|fi|jonkun}} {{t+|fi|seuralainen|alt=seuralaisena}}
* French: {{t|fr|accompagner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|begleiten}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kísér}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|付き合う|tr=つきあう, tsukiau|sc=Jpan}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|lydėti|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сопутствовать|tr=sopútstvovat'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|сопровождать|tr=soprovoždát'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|сопроводить|tr=soprovodít'|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|acompañar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform an accompanying part next to another instrument}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|съпровождам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|begeleiden}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|säestää}}
* German: {{t+|de|begleiten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kísér}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аккомпанировать|tr=akkompanírovat'}} {{impf}}/{{pf.}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ackompanjera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to keep company}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[رافق]]}} (rāfaqa)
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|придружавам}},  {{t|bg|съпровождам|tr=sǎprovoždam}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{qualifier|formal}} {{t|cmn|陪同|tr=péitóng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|陪伴|tr=péibàn|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|informal}} {{t-|cmn|陪|tr=péi|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t|da|ledsage}},  {{t|da|gelejde}}
* Dutch: zich {{t|nl|samensluiten}}, {{t-|nl|samenwerken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pitää seuraa}}, {{t|fi|olla seurana}}
* German: {{t+|de|begleiten}},  {{t-|de|geleiten}}
* Japanese: [[連れ立つ]] ([[つれたつ]], tsuretatsu)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сопровождать|tr=soprovoždátʹ}} {{impf}}, [[следовать]] [[вместе]] (slédovatʹ vméste) {{impf}}
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[!gàã]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: to cohabit}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|samenwonen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|сожительствовать|tr=sožítel'stvovatʹ}} {{impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: to cohabit with}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|samenwonen}} met
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[accompagner]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[akompanar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[teman|menemani]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[accompaniar]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[accompagnare]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[付き添う]] ([[つきそう]], tsukisou)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[acompanhar]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[eşlik etmek]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[ar:accompany]]
[[de:accompany]]
[[et:accompany]]
[[el:accompany]]
[[es:accompany]]
[[fa:accompany]]
[[fr:accompany]]
[[gl:accompany]]
[[ko:accompany]]
[[hi:accompany]]
[[io:accompany]]
[[it:accompany]]
[[kn:accompany]]
[[ku:accompany]]
[[lt:accompany]]
[[hu:accompany]]
[[ml:accompany]]
[[my:accompany]]
[[ja:accompany]]
[[pl:accompany]]
[[pt:accompany]]
[[ro:accompany]]
[[ru:accompany]]
[[simple:accompany]]
[[fi:accompany]]
[[sv:accompany]]
[[ta:accompany]]
[[te:accompany]]
[[th:accompany]]
[[tr:accompany]]
[[vi:accompany]]
[[zh:accompany]]