{{wikipedia|dab=account (disambiguation)|account}}
==English==

{{rank|talk|spirit|sometimes|452|account|party|sight|electronic}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ə'kaʊnt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-account.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aʊnt}}
* {{hyphenation|ac|count}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|acunt||lang=xno|account}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|acont||lang=fro}}, from {{term|aconter||lang=fro|to reckon}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|computo||lang=la|to sum up}}

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|account|account (accountancy)}}
{{en-noun}}

# A [[reckoning]]; [[computation]]; [[calculation]]; [[enumeration]]; a record of some reckoning
#: ''the Julian '''account''' of time.''
#:* A beggarly '''account''' of empty boxes. - Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet, V-i''
# A [[registry]] of [[pecuniary]] [[transaction]]s; a written or printed statement of [[business]] [[dealing]]s or [[debt]]s and [[credit]]s, and also of other things subjected to a reckoning or [[review]]; as, to keep one's '''account''' at the bank.
# A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc., explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for [[reason]], [[ground]], [[consideration]], [[motive]], etc.; as, on no account, on every account, on all accounts.
#* A serious operation [autopsy] will be necessary before that can be done. But there are still four cartridges in the revolver.  Two have been fired and two wounds inflicted, so that each bullet can be '''accounted''' for. - Doctor Watson in ''The Return of Sherlock Holmes''
# A [[statement]] of facts or [[occurrence]]s; [[recital]] of transactions; a [[relation]] or [[narrative]]; a [[report]]; a [[description]]; as, an '''account''' of a battle.
#* A laudable '''account''' of the city of London. - Howell
# A statement and explanation or [[vindication]] of one's [[conduct]] with reference to [[judgement]] thereon.
#* Give an '''account''' of thy stewardship. - ''Luke 16:2''
# An [[estimate]] or [[estimation]]; [[valuation]]; judgement.
#* To stand high in your '''account''' - Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice, III-ii''
# Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit.
#* Men of '''account''' - Pope
#* To turn to '''account''' - Shakespeare
# A [[subscription]] to a service.
#* ''I've opened an '''account''' with Wikipedia so that I can contribute and partake in the project.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[narrative]]; [[narration]]; [[relation]]; [[recital]]; [[description]]; [[explanation]]; [[rehearsal]]
* {{sense|a subscription to a service}} [[membership]], [[registration]], [[username]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Financial terms}}
* [[account balance]]
* [[account book]]
* [[account code]]
* [[account executive]]
* [[account number]]
* [[account payable]]
* [[account receivable]]
* [[account stated]]
* [[active account]]
* [[bank account]]
* [[book account]]
* [[capital account]]
* [[cash account]]
* [[cast accounts]]
* [[charge account]]
* [[checking account]]
* [[concentration account]]
* [[control account]]
* [[credit account]]
* [[current account]]
* [[custodial account]]
* [[deferred account]]
* [[deposit account]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[discretionary account]]
* [[dormany account]]
* [[drawing account]]
* [[escrow account]]
* [[expense account]]
* [[final account]]
* [[frozen account]]
* [[general account]]
* [[giro  account]]
* [[house account]]
* [[insured account]]
* [[joint account]]
* [[managed account]]
* [[margin account]]
* [[merchant account]]
* [[mixed account]]
* [[money of account]]
* [[nostro account]]
* [[NOW account]]
* [[numbered account]]
* [[omnibus account]]
* [[open account]]
* [[option account]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[overdraft checking account]]
* [[pension account]]
* [[profit and loss account]]
* [[reserved account]]
* [[restricted account]]
* [[retirement account]]
* [[savings account]]
* [[separate account]]
* [[share premium account]]
* [[suspense account]]
* [[sweep account]]
* [[trading account]]
* [[transaction account]]
* [[trust account]]
* [[trustee account]]
* [[undermargined account]]
* [[undivided account]]
* [[valuation account]]
* [[vostro account]]
* [[western account]]
* [[wrap account]]
* [[zero-balance account]]
{{rel-bottom}}

{{rel-top|Non-financial terms}}
* [[account current]]: a running or continued account between two or more parties, or a statement of the particulars of such an account
* [[call to account]]
* [[cast up one's accounts]]
* [[in account with]]: in a relation requiring an account to be kept
* [[no-account]]
* [[on account of]]: for the sake of; by reason of; because of
* [[on no account]]
* [[on one's own account]]: for one's own interest or behalf
* [[make account]]: ''(Obsolete):'' to have an opinion or expectation; to reckon
{{rel-mid}}
* [[make account of]]: to hold in estimation; to esteem; as, he '''makes''' small '''account of''' beauty
* [[shell account]]
* [[short account]]
* [[take account of]]''', or '''[[take into account]]: to take into consideration; to notice
* a [[writ of account]]: ''(Law):'' a writ which the plaintiff brings demanding that the defendant shall render his just account, or show good cause to the contrary; -- called also an '''action of account''' - Cowell
* [[take into account]]
* [[theoretical account]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|reckoning, calculation}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rekening}}, {{t+|nl|berekening}}, {{t-|nl|telling}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λογαριασμός|m|tr=logariasmós|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|conto|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|soma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a registry of pecuniary transactions}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|účet|m}}, {{t-|cs|konto|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rekening}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|konto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tili}}
* German: {{t+|de|Konto|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λογαριασμός|m|tr=logariasmós|sc=Grek}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|konto}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conta}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|cuenta|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tài khoản|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc.}}
* Estonian: [[aruanne]]
* Finnish: [[selonteko]], [[selostus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Begründung]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|beszámoló}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a statement of facts or occurrences}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verslag}}, {{t+|nl|verhaal}}
* Estonian: [[seletus]]
* Finnish: [[selonteko]], [[selostus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bericht|m}}
* Greek: [[αναφορά]] (anaphorá) {{f}}
* Vietnamese: [[chuyện kể]] (4)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a statement and explanation or vindication}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|rekenschap}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rechenschaft|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a subscription to a service}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|account}} (to an electronic service)
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|cont|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[račun]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[seamă]] {{f}}, [[cont]] {{n}} (7)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Usage notes=====
* of '''Account''', [[narrative]], [[Narration]], [[Recital]]. These words are applied to different modes of rehearsing a series of events
* '''Account''' turns attention not so much to the speaker as to the fact related, and more properly applies to the report of some single event, or a group of incidents taken as whole; as, an '''account''' of a battle, of a shipwreck, etc.
* A '''narrative''' is a continuous story of connected incidents, such as one friend might tell to another; as, a '''narrative''' of the events of a siege, a '''narrative''' of one's life, etc.
* '''Narration''' is usually the same as '''narrative''', but is sometimes used to describe the '''mode''' of relating events; as, his powers of '''narration''' are uncommonly great.
* '''Recital''' denotes a series of events drawn out into minute particulars, usually expressing something which peculiarly interests the feelings of the speaker; as, the '''recital''' of one's wrongs, disappointments, sufferings, etc.

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English ''[[acounten]]'', ''[[accompten]]'', which comes from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[aconter]]'', ''[[à]]'' (from {{etyl|la}} ''[[ad]]'') + ''[[conter]]'' "to count". In modern French ''conter'' to tell, ''[[compter]]'' to count, Latin ''[[computare]]''. See [[count]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[reckon]]; to [[compute]]; to [[count]].
#: ''The motion of... the sun whereby years are '''accounted'''.''  - Sir T. Browne
# {{context|transitive|rare}} To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to [[assign]]; -- with '''to'''. - Clarendon
# {{transitive}} To [[value]], [[estimate]], or hold in opinion; to [[judge]] or [[consider]]; to [[deem]].
#:* '''Accounting''' that God was able to raise him up. - ''Hebrews, 11:19''
*:* I '''account''' her beauty. - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona, II-i''
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[recount]]; to [[relate]]. - Chaucer
# {{intransitive}} To render or receive an account or relation of [[particular]]s; as, an officer must '''account''' with or to the treasurer for money received.
# {{intransitive}} To render an account; to answer in judgement; -- with '''for'''; as, we must '''account''' for the use of our opportunities.
# {{intransitive}} To give a [[satisfactory]] reason; to tell the cause of; to [[explain]]; -- with '''for'''; as, idleness '''accounts''' for poverty.
# to get [[revenge]] on (someone).

=====Derived terms=====
* '''to [[account for]]'''
* to [[account of]]: to esteem; to prize; to value. Now used only in the passive
*:* Newer was preaching more '''accounted of''' than in the sixteenth century. - Canon Robinson

=====Translations=====
{{checktrans-top}}
* [[Rohingya]]: [[hísab]]
* Gujarati : [[hisab]], [[khatu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* [[accountable]]
* [[accountant]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ə'kɑʊnt/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
'''account''' {{m}}, {{n}}

# A [[loanword]] from English that means a [[subscription]] to an electronic service.

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''account''' {{m|inv}}

{{computing|lang=it}} [[#English|account]] (online identification)

# {{defn|Italian}}

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[ang:account]]
[[ar:account]]
[[be:account]]
[[de:account]]
[[et:account]]
[[el:account]]
[[fa:account]]
[[fr:account]]
[[ko:account]]
[[hy:account]]
[[io:account]]
[[it:account]]
[[kk:account]]
[[ku:account]]
[[li:account]]
[[hu:account]]
[[ja:account]]
[[no:account]]
[[pl:account]]
[[pt:account]]
[[simple:account]]
[[sk:account]]
[[fi:account]]
[[ta:account]]
[[te:account]]
[[vi:account]]
[[tr:account]]
[[uk:account]]
[[zh:account]]