==English==

===Etymology===
1530s, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|accommodatus|accomodātus|lang=la}}, perfect passive participle of {{term|accommodo|accomodō|lang=la}}; {{term|ad|lang=la}} + {{m|la|commodō||make fit, help}}; {{term|com|lang=la}} + {{term|modus||measure, proportion|lang=la}} (English {{term|mode|lang=en}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈkɒməˌdeɪt/|[əˈkʰɒməˌdeɪt]|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈkɑməˌdeɪt/|[əˈkʰɑməˌdeɪt]|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-accommodate.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accommodat}}

# {{context|transitive|often|reflexive|lang=en}} To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform; as, to '''accommodate''' ourselves to circumstances.
#: ''They '''accommodate''' their counsels to his inclination.''  -[[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]]
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To bring into agreement or harmony; to [[reconcile]]; to [[compose]]; to adjust; to settle; as, to '''accommodate''' differences, a dispute, etc.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To provide housing for; to furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; as, to '''accommodate''' a friend with a loan or with lodgings.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To do a favor or service for; to oblige;
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy; to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements to facts, etc.; as, to '''accommodate''' prophecy to events.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To give consideration to; to allow for.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To contain comfortably; to have space for.
# {{context|intransitive|rare|lang=en}} To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted; become adjusted.

====Synonyms====
* [[suit]]; [[adapt]]; [[conform]]; [[adjust]]; [[arrange]]

====Antonyms====
* {{qualifier|obsolete}} [[discommodate]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to render fit or suitable}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|容纳|tr=róng nà|sc=Hani}}
* German: {{t+|de|machen}}, {{t|de|endigen}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|aptigar}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excipio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acomodar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приспоса́бливать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приспосо́бить|pf}}, {{t+|ru|подгоня́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|подогна́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acomodar}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|uyum sağlamak}}, {{t+|tr|düzenlemek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bring into agreement}}
* German: {{t|de|in Übereinstimmung bringen}}, {{t+|de|anpassen}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excipio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{qualifier|law}} {{t-check|tr|[[birbirine]] [[uygun]] [[kılmak]]}} <!-- was "[[birbirine]] [[uygun]] [[kılmak]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t+check|tr|uydurmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to provide housing for}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|onderbrengen}}, {{t+|nl|herbergen}}
* German: {{t+|de|unterbringen}}, {{t+|de|beherbergen}}, {{t|de|einquartieren}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|befogad}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|gastigar}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acomodar}}
* Turkish: {{t-check|tr|[[kalacak]] [[yer]] [[sağlamak]]}} <!-- was "[[kalacak]] [[yer]] [[sağlamak]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t-check|tr|[[kalacak]] [[yer]] [[vermek]]}} <!-- was "[[kalacak]] [[yer]] [[vermek]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to furnish with something desired}}
* German: {{t+|de|einrichten}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excipio}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|satisfacer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förse}}, {{t+|sv|tillgodose}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|düzenlemek}}, {{t+|tr|tanzim etmek}}, {{t+|tr|yerleştirmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to adapt to fit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanpassen}}, {{t|nl|accommoderen}}
* German: {{t+|de|anpassen}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excipio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acomodar}}, {{t+|es|adaptar}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uydurmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to adapt one's self}}
* German: {{t+|de|anpassen}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excipio}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приспоса́бливаться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приспосо́биться|pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|alışmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-check|bg|приспособявам|sc=Cyrl}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|accommoder}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means '''accommodate''' to end. 
#* John Tillotson
#*: God did not primarily intend to appoint this way of worship, and to impose it upon them as that which was most proper and agreeable to him; but that he condescended to it as most '''accommodate''' to their present state and inclination.

===External links===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
{{Webster 1913}}

----

==Latin==

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|accommodat|accommodāt|e}}

# [[suitably]]

====Related terms====
* [[accommodatio|accommodātiō]]
* [[accommodatus|accommodātus]]
* [[accommodo|accommodō]]
* [[accommodus]]

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}

[[ar:accommodate]]
[[be:accommodate]]
[[et:accommodate]]
[[el:accommodate]]
[[fa:accommodate]]
[[fr:accommodate]]
[[gl:accommodate]]
[[ko:accommodate]]
[[hy:accommodate]]
[[hi:accommodate]]
[[io:accommodate]]
[[id:accommodate]]
[[it:accommodate]]
[[kn:accommodate]]
[[ku:accommodate]]
[[lt:accommodate]]
[[hu:accommodate]]
[[mg:accommodate]]
[[ml:accommodate]]
[[my:accommodate]]
[[nl:accommodate]]
[[ja:accommodate]]
[[no:accommodate]]
[[ps:accommodate]]
[[pl:accommodate]]
[[pt:accommodate]]
[[ru:accommodate]]
[[sa:accommodate]]
[[simple:accommodate]]
[[fi:accommodate]]
[[sv:accommodate]]
[[ta:accommodate]]
[[te:accommodate]]
[[th:accommodate]]
[[chr:accommodate]]
[[tr:accommodate]]
[[vi:accommodate]]
[[zh:accommodate]]