==English==
{{Webster 1913}}

===Etymology===
* First attested in the early 15th century.
* {{sense|completes|perfects|equips}} First attested around 1600.
* {{suffix|accomplish|ment}}
* From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|accomplissement|lang=fr}}, from {{term|accomplir|lang=fro}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˈkɒm.plɪʃ.mənt/}}
* {{audio|En-us-accomplishment.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[accomplish]]ing; entire [[performance]]; [[completion]]; [[fulfillment]]; as, the '''accomplishment''' of an enterprise, of a prophecy, etc.
# That which [[complete]]s, [[perfect]]s, or [[equip]]s thoroughly; [[acquirement]]; [[attainment]]; that which constitutes [[excellence]] of mind, or [[elegance]] of manners, acquired by education or training.
#* My new '''accomplishment''' of dancing. - [[w:Charles Churchill (satirist)|Charles Churchill]]
#* '''Accomplishments''' befitting a station. - [[w:William Makepeace Thackeray|William Makepeace Thackeray]]
#* '''Accomplishments''' have taken virtue's place, / And wisdom falls before exterior grace. - [[w:William Cowper|William Cowper]]
# Something accomplished; an achievement.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the act of accomplishing}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|постижение|n|tr=postižénie|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|成就|tr=chéngjiù|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|成果|tr=chéngguǒ|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|voltooiing|f}}
* Finnish: [[loppuunsaattaminen]], [[päätökseen]] [[saattaminen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|accomplissement|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Leistung|f}}, {{t|de|Errungenschaft|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|realizzazione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|遂行|tr=すいこう, suikō|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|達成|tr=たっせい, tassei|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|到達|tr=とうたつ, tōtatsu|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|業績|tr=ぎょうせき, gyōseki|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|成果|tr=せいか, seika|sc=Jpan}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|достигнување|n|tr=dostignúvanje|sc=Cyrl}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|достижение|n|tr=dostižénije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|logro|m}}, {{t+|es|éxito|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which completes}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|завършване|n}},  {{t+|bg|изпълнение|n}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|結束|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|结束|tr=jiéshù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|prestatie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saavutus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accomplissement|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Vollendung|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|実績|tr=じっせき, jisseki|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|завершение|n|tr=zaveršénije|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[hasil]], [[hasil]] [[jerih payah]]. [[prestasi]], [[hasil]] [[yang]] [[capai|dicapai]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: {{t+|it|talento|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

[[ar:accomplishment]]
[[zh-min-nan:accomplishment]]
[[et:accomplishment]]
[[el:accomplishment]]
[[eo:accomplishment]]
[[fa:accomplishment]]
[[fr:accomplishment]]
[[ko:accomplishment]]
[[hi:accomplishment]]
[[io:accomplishment]]
[[id:accomplishment]]
[[kn:accomplishment]]
[[hu:accomplishment]]
[[mg:accomplishment]]
[[my:accomplishment]]
[[ja:accomplishment]]
[[ps:accomplishment]]
[[pl:accomplishment]]
[[pt:accomplishment]]
[[ru:accomplishment]]
[[fi:accomplishment]]
[[sv:accomplishment]]
[[ta:accomplishment]]
[[te:accomplishment]]
[[tr:accomplishment]]
[[vi:accomplishment]]
[[zh:accomplishment]]