==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=accommodation}}
{{Webster 1913}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{term|accommodation|lang=fr}} from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term/t|la|accommodātiō||adjustment, accommodation, compliance}}, from {{term/t|la|accommodō||adapt, put in order}}. Superficially {{suffix|accommodate|tion}}. The sense of "lodging" was first attested in 1600.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ə.ˌkɒm.ə.ˈdeɪ.ʃən/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˌkɑm.ə.ˈdeɪ.ʃən/}}
* {{rhymes|eɪʃən}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{senseid|en|lodging}} {{context|chiefly|British|usually|a mass noun|lang=en}} [[lodging|Lodging]] in a [[dwelling]] or similar living quarters afforded to travellers in hotels or on cruise ships, or prisoners, etc.
# {{context|countable|uncountable|followed by ''to''|lang=en}} The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or adapted; adaptation; adjustment.
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|Sir Matthew Hale}}
#*: The organization of the body with '''accommodation''' to its functions.
# {{context|countable|uncountable|lang=en}} Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.
# {{context|countable|uncountable|lang=en}} Adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation; settlement; compromise.
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay}}
#*: To come to terms of '''accommodation'''.
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy, to something not originally referred to or intended.
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|William Paley}}
#: Many of those quotations from the Old Testament were probably intended as nothing more than '''accommodations'''.
# {{context|countable|commerce|lang=en}} A loan of money.
# {{context|countable|commerce|lang=en}} An accommodation bill or note.
# {{context|countable|legal|lang=en}} An offer of [[substitute]] [[goods]] to [[fulfill]] a [[contract]], which will bind the [[purchaser]] if [[accepted]]
# {{context|countable|physiology|biology|lang=en}} The adaptation or adjustment of an organism, organ, or part.
# {{context|countable|medical|lang=en}} The adjustment of the eye to a change of the distance from an observed object.
# {{context|countable|geology|lang=en}} The place where sediments can make, or have made, a sedimentation.

====Derived terms====
: ''The definitions should be entered into dedicated entries for the terms defined.''
* [[accommodation bill]], or '''note,''' ''(Commerce):'' a bill of exchange which a person accepts, or a note which a person makes and delivers to another, not upon a consideration received, but for the purpose of raising money on credit
* [[accommodation coach]], or '''train:''' one running at moderate speed and stopping at all or nearly all stations
* [[accommodation ladder]], ''(Nautical):'' a light ladder hung over the side of a ship at the gangway, useful in ascending from, or descending to, small boats
* [[holiday accommodation]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|lodging}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|الإقامة|tr=al-eekama|sc=Arab}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|квартира}}, {{t+|bg|жилище}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|住處|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|住处|tr=zhùchù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|膳宿|tr=shànsù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|ubytování|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|majoitus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hébergement}}
* German: {{t+|de|Unterkunft|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לִינָה|f|tr=liná|sc=Hebr}}, {{t+|he|מְגוּרִים|m-p|tr=megurím}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|lojeyo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|宿泊|tr=しゅくはく, shukuhaku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|сместување|n|tr=smestúvanje}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|penginapan}}, {{t|ms|pemalaman}}, {{t|ms|permalaman}}, {{t|ms|lojing}}, {{t|ms|akomodasi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|wharenoho}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zakwaterowanie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|alojamento|m}}, {{t+|pt|hospedagem|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|жильё|n|tr=žil'jó}}, {{qualifier|military}} {{t+|ru|расквартирование|n|tr=raskvartirovánije}}, {{t+|ru|жилище|n|tr=žilíšče}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|смјештај|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|smještaj|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|alojamiento|m}}, {{t+|es|hospedaje|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state of being fitted and adapted}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приспособяване}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|適應|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|适应|tr=shìyìng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|調節|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|调节|tr=tiáojié|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|和解|tr=héjiě|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|soveltuminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accommodation}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anpassung}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|akomodasi}}
* Italian: {{t|it|sistemazione}}, {{t+|it|alloggio}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|設備|tr=setsubi}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|прилагодување|n|tr=prilagodúvanje}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przystosowanie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|acomodamento|m}}, {{t+|pt|acomodação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|согласование|n|tr=soglasovánije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|adjustment of the eye}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приспособяване}}, {{t+|bg|привикване}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|akomodace|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|accommodatie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sopeutuminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accommodation}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|調節|tr=chōsetsu}}, {{t+|ja|調整|tr=chōsei}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|привикнување|n|tr=priviknúvanje}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|akomodacja|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аккомодация|f|tr=akkomodácija}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-accommodation.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{l/en|accommodation}}

[[ar:accommodation]]
[[de:accommodation]]
[[et:accommodation]]
[[el:accommodation]]
[[es:accommodation]]
[[fa:accommodation]]
[[fr:accommodation]]
[[ko:accommodation]]
[[hi:accommodation]]
[[io:accommodation]]
[[id:accommodation]]
[[it:accommodation]]
[[kn:accommodation]]
[[ku:accommodation]]
[[lt:accommodation]]
[[li:accommodation]]
[[hu:accommodation]]
[[mg:accommodation]]
[[ml:accommodation]]
[[ms:accommodation]]
[[my:accommodation]]
[[fj:accommodation]]
[[nl:accommodation]]
[[ja:accommodation]]
[[ps:accommodation]]
[[pl:accommodation]]
[[pt:accommodation]]
[[ru:accommodation]]
[[sa:accommodation]]
[[simple:accommodation]]
[[fi:accommodation]]
[[sv:accommodation]]
[[ta:accommodation]]
[[te:accommodation]]
[[th:accommodation]]
[[chr:accommodation]]
[[tr:accommodation]]
[[vi:accommodation]]
[[zh:accommodation]]