==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|according|ly}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˈkɔɹ.dɪŋ.li/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈkɔː(ɹ).dɪŋ.li/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@"kO:(r\).dIn.li/}}
* {{audio|en-us-accordingly.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# {{context|manner}} [[agreeably|Agreeably]]; [[correspondingly]]; [[suitably]]; in a manner [[conformable]].
#* We may the number of ships behold, and so proceed '''accordingly'''. - Shakespeare, ''Antony and Cleopatra, III-ix''
#* '''1895''', H. G. Wells, ''The Time Machine'' Chapter X
#:* Now, I still think that for this box of matches to have escaped the wear of time for immemorial years was a strange, and for me, a most fortunate thing. Yet oddly enough I found here a far more unlikely substance, and that was camphor. I found it in a sealed jar, that, by chance, I supposed had been really hermetically sealed. I fancied at first the stuff was paraffin wax, and smashed the jar '''accordingly'''. But the odor of camphor was unmistakable. It struck me as singularly odd, that among the universal decay, this volatile substance had chanced to survive, perhaps through many thousand years. Is reminded me of a sepia painting I had once seen done from the ink of a fossil Belemnite that must have perished and become fossilized millions of years ago. I was about to throw this camphor on one side, and then remembering that it was inflammable and burnt with a good bright flame, I put it into my pocket.
# {{context|conjunctive}} In natural [[sequence]]; [[consequently]]; so.

====Usage notes====
Synonym notes:
* ''Consequently'', indicates a connection between two things, the latter of which is done on account of the former.
* ''Accordingly'' marks the connection as one of simple accordance or [[congruity]], leading naturally to the result which followed; as, he was absent when I called, and I ''accordingly'' left my card; our preparations were all finished, and we ''accordingly'' set sail. ''Consequently'' all finished, and we ''accordingly'' set sail.
* ''Consequently'' marks a [[closer]] connection, that of [[logical]] or [[causal]] sequence; as, the papers were not ready, and ''consequently'' could not be signed.

====Synonyms====
* [[consequently]], [[therefore]], [[wherefore]], [[hence]], [[so]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съответно}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sen mukaisesti}}
* German: {{t+|de|dementsprechend}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|deretter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|odpowiednio}}, {{t+|pl|stosownie}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|correspondentemente}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|соответственно|tr=sootvétstvenno}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|en consecuencia}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in natural sequence; consequently; so}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|следователно}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|niinpä}}, {{t|fi|siispä}}
* German: {{t|de|logischerweise}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|طبیعتاّ|tr=tabiatan|sc=fa-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|więc}}, {{t+|pl|zatem}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|conseqüentemente}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|следовательно|tr=slédovatelʹno}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|por consiguiente}}, {{t-|es|consecuentemente}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t|fr|en conséquence}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: {{t|ia|in consequentia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t|it|di conseguenza}}, {{t|it|in conformità a}}, {{t|it|conformemente}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t|pt|conformemente}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:English conjunctive adverbs]]
[[Category:English manner adverbs]]

[[ar:accordingly]]
[[et:accordingly]]
[[fa:accordingly]]
[[fr:accordingly]]
[[ko:accordingly]]
[[io:accordingly]]
[[it:accordingly]]
[[li:accordingly]]
[[hu:accordingly]]
[[mg:accordingly]]
[[ml:accordingly]]
[[my:accordingly]]
[[ps:accordingly]]
[[pl:accordingly]]
[[pt:accordingly]]
[[simple:accordingly]]
[[fi:accordingly]]
[[sv:accordingly]]
[[ta:accordingly]]
[[te:accordingly]]
[[th:accordingly]]
[[tr:accordingly]]
[[vi:accordingly]]
[[zh:accordingly]]