==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested around 1400.
* {{suffix|account|able}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʌˈkaʊntəbl̩/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/V"kaUnt@b@l/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˈkaʊn.tə.bəl/}}
* {{audio|En-us-accountable.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having [[accountability]] (individuals have accountability); answerable.
#: Every man is '''accountable''' to God for his conduct.
#: ''You will be held '''accountable''' for your misdemeanors.''
# Requiring accountability (property or funds require accountability).
# Liable to be called on to render an account;
# Being answerable for.
# Being liable for.
# {{context|rare}} Capable of being accounted for; explicable; explainable.
#:* True religion . . . intelligible, rational, and '''accountable''', -- not a burden but a privilege. - [[w:Benjamin Whichcote|Benjamin Whichcote]]

====Synonyms====
* [[amenable]], [[responsible]], [[liable]], [[answerable]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Having accountability}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: verantwoordelik, aanspreeklik
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|отговорен}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|有責任的|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|有解說義務的|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verantwoordelijk}}, {{t+|nl|aansprakelijk}}
* Finnish: [[vastuussa oleva]], [[vastuullinen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|responsable|m|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|verantwortlich}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|responsable}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[ferantwurdlik]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Requiring accountability}}
* Dutch: [[verklaarbaar]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vastuullinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[ferklearber]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Liable to be called on to render an account}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|подотчетен}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|responsable|m|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπόλογος}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Capable of being accounted for; explicable}}
* French: {{t|fr|expliquable|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ευεξήγητος}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|skýranlegur|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Items such as airline tickets, whose issue must be recorded by the issuing authority and matched up again after use}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ca}}: [[responsable]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[responsabile]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[responsabile]]
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[responsable]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[ar:accountable]]
[[et:accountable]]
[[el:accountable]]
[[es:accountable]]
[[fa:accountable]]
[[fr:accountable]]
[[ko:accountable]]
[[io:accountable]]
[[it:accountable]]
[[kn:accountable]]
[[hu:accountable]]
[[my:accountable]]
[[ja:accountable]]
[[no:accountable]]
[[ps:accountable]]
[[pl:accountable]]
[[pt:accountable]]
[[sv:accountable]]
[[ta:accountable]]
[[te:accountable]]
[[th:accountable]]
[[tr:accountable]]
[[vi:accountable]]
[[zh:accountable]]