==English==
{{webster 1913}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|acomplissen|lang=ang}} < {{etyl|fro}} {{term||acompliss-}}, verbal root of {{term|acomplir|lang=fro}} (Modern French {{term|accomplir|lang=fr}}) < {{etyl|la}} {{term|ad|lang=la}} + {{term|complere||to fill up, to complete|lang=la}}. See also {{term|complete}}, {{term|finish}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈkəm.plɪʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"k@m.plIS/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈkɔm.pliʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"kOm.pliS/}}
* {{audio|En-us-accomplish.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|a|ccom|plish}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accomplishes|accomplishing|accomplished}}

# To [[finish]] [[successful]]ly.
# To complete, as time or distance.
#:* That He would '''accomplish''' seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem. - ''Daniel 9:2''
#:* He had '''accomplished''' half a league or more. - [[w:William H. Prescott|William H. Prescott]]
# To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to execute fully; to fulfill; as, to '''accomplish''' a design, an object, a promise.
#:* This that is written must yet be '''accomplished''' in me - ''Luke 22:37''
# To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.
#:* The armorers '''accomplishing''' the knights - Shakespeare, ''Henry V, IV-chorus''
#:* It [the moon] is fully '''accomplished''' for all those ends to which Providence did appoint it. - [[w:John Wilkins|John Wilkins]]
#:* These qualities . . . go to '''accomplish''' a perfect woman. - [[w:Charles Cowden Clarke|Charles Cowden Clarke]]
# {{obsolete}} To gain; to obtain. - Shakespeare

====Synonyms====
* [[do]], [[perform]], [[fulfill]], [[realize]], [[effect]], [[effectuate]], [[complete]], [[consummate]], [[execute]], [[achieve]], [[perfect]], [[equip]], [[furnish]], [[carry out]]

====Usage notes====
* <!--A longer exposition on near synonyms from Webster 1913:--> A comparison of to [[#English|accomplish]], [[effect]], [[execute]], [[achieve]], [[perform]]: These words agree in the general idea of carrying out to some end proposed.
* To ''accomplish'' (to fill up to the measure of the intention) generally implies perseverance and skill; as, to ''accomplish'' a plan proposed by one's self, an object, a design, an undertaking
*: Thou shalt '''accomplish''' my desire. - 1 Kings 5:9
*: He . . . expressed his desire to see a union ''accomplished'' between England and Scotland. - [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]]
* To ''effect'' (to work out) is much like ''accomplish''. It usually implies some degree of difficulty contended with; as, he ''effected'' or ''accomplished'' what he intended, his purpose, but little.
*:* What he decreed, he '''effected'''. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
*:* To work in close design by fraud or guile / What force '''effected''' not. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
* To ''execute'' (to follow out to the end, to carry out, or into effect) implies a set mode of operation; as, to ''execute'' the laws or the orders of another; to ''execute'' a work, a purpose, design, plan, project.
* To ''perform'' is much like to ''do'', though less generally applied. It conveys a notion of protracted and methodical effort; as, to ''perform'' a mission, a part, a task, a work.
*:* Thou canst best '''perform''' that office. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
*:* The Saints, like stars, around his seat / '''Perform''' their courses still. - [[w:John Keble|John Keble]]
* To ''achieve'' (to come to the end or arrive at one's purpose) usually implies some enterprise or undertaking of importance, difficulty, and excellence

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to finish successfully}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|осъществявам}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fuldende}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volbrengen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suorittaa}}, {{t+|fi|toteuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|saada}} {{t-|fi|tehty|alt=tehdyksi}}, {{t+|fi|saattaa}} {{t-|fi|päätökseen}}, {{t+|fi|saada}} {{t-|fi|aikaan}}
* German: {{t-|de|vollenden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|compiere}}, {{t+|it|realizzare}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dokonywać}}, {{t+|pl|dokonać}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|совершать|tr=sov'eršát'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|совершить|tr=sov'eršít'}} {{impf}}; {{t+|ru|выполнять|tr=vypoln'át'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|выполнить|tr=výpolnit'}} {{pf.}}; {{t+|ru|достигать|tr=dostigát'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|достигнуть|tr=dostígnut'}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|достичь|tr=dostíč}} {{impf}}; [[доводить до конца]]; {{t|ru|завершать|tr=zav'eršát'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|завершить|tr=zav'eršít'}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|efectuar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|fullborda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to complete, as time or distance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|завършвам}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fuldende}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suorittaa}}, {{t+|fi|saavuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|vollenden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|извършвам}},  {{t|bg|осъществявам}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fuldende}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volbrengen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suorittaa}}, {{t+|fi|saavuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|vollenden}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|åstadkomma}}, {{t|sv|uträtta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to equip or furnish thoroughly}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fuldende}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|varustaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|vollenden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(obsolete) to gain; to obtain}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[accomplir]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[selesai|menyelesaikan]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[complir]], [[realisar]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[compire]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[完成]]させる ([[かんせい]]させる, kansei-saseru), [[成し遂げる]] ([[なしとげる]], nashitogeru), [[完了]]させる ([[かんりょう]]させる, kanryō-saseru)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[realizar]], [[cumprir]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[lograr]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[ar:accomplish]]
[[zh-min-nan:accomplish]]
[[be:accomplish]]
[[et:accomplish]]
[[fa:accomplish]]
[[fr:accomplish]]
[[gl:accomplish]]
[[ko:accomplish]]
[[hi:accomplish]]
[[io:accomplish]]
[[id:accomplish]]
[[it:accomplish]]
[[kn:accomplish]]
[[kk:accomplish]]
[[ku:accomplish]]
[[lt:accomplish]]
[[hu:accomplish]]
[[ml:accomplish]]
[[my:accomplish]]
[[nl:accomplish]]
[[ja:accomplish]]
[[pl:accomplish]]
[[pt:accomplish]]
[[su:accomplish]]
[[fi:accomplish]]
[[sv:accomplish]]
[[ta:accomplish]]
[[te:accomplish]]
[[th:accomplish]]
[[vi:accomplish]]
[[zh:accomplish]]