==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in the 1610s.
* From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|accrediter|accréditer}}, from {{m|fr|a|à|to}} + {{m|fr|crediter|créditer|to credit}}, from {{m|fr|credit|crédit|credit}}.
* See {{m|en|credit}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ə.ˈkɹɛd.ɪt/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-accredit.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[ascribe]]; [[attribute]]; credit with.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To put or bring into [[credit]]; to [[invest]] with credit or [[authority]]; to [[sanction]].
#* '''February 17, 1793''', [[w:William Cowper|William Cowper]], ''letter to Samuel Rose, Esq.''
#*: His censure will {{...}} '''accredit''' his praises.
#* '''1612-1620''', [[w:Thomas Shelton (translator)|Thomas Shelton]] (translator), ''Don Quixote''
#*: these reasons {{...}} which '''accredit''' and fortify mine opinion.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To send with [[letter]]s [[credential]], as an [[ambassador]], [[envoy]], or [[diplomatic]] agent; to [[authorize]], as a [[messenger]] or [[delegate]].
#* '''1870''', [[w:James Anthony Froude|James Anthony Froude]], ''History of England from the Fall of Wolsey to the Defeat of the Spanish Armada''
#*: Beton {{...}} was '''accredited''' to the Court of France.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[believe]]; to put trust in.
#* '''1855''', [[w:George Cornewall Lewis|George Cornewall Lewis]], ''Enquiry into the Credibility of the Early Roman History''
#*: The version of early Roman history which was '''accredited''' in the fifth century.
#* '''1820''', [[w:Robert Southey|Robert Southey]], ''The Life of Wesley; and Rise and Progress of Methodism''
#*: He '''accredited''' and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To enter on the credit side of an [[account book]].
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To certify as meeting a predetermined [[standard]]; to certify an educational institution as upholding the specified standards necessary for the students to advance.
#: ''The school was an '''accredited''' college.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To recognize as outstanding.
# {{lb|en|transitive|literally}} To [[credit]].

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|accredit with}}
* {{l|en|accreditation}}
* {{l|en|accredited}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority; to sanction}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|упълномощавам}}
* Danish: {{t|da|akkreditere}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akrediti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accréditer}}
* German: {{t+|de|akkreditieren}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|accreditar}}
* Interlingue: {{t|ie|acreditar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accreditare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|accustor}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|credenciar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уполномо́чивать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|уполномо́чить|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acreditar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ackreditera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|հավատարմագրել}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|акредитирам}}
* Danish: {{t|da|akkreditere}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akrediti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|akkreditoida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accréditer}}
* German: {{t+|de|akkreditieren}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|accreditar}}
* Interlingue: {{t|ie|acreditar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accreditare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|accustor}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|akkreditere}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|akkreditere}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|akredytować|impf|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|credenciar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аккредитова́ть|impf|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acreditar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To believe; to credit; to put trust in}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|поверявам}}, {{t|bg|доверявам}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|доверя́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|дове́рить|pf}}, {{t+|ru|припи́сывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приписа́ть|pf}} {{qualifier|ascribe}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to certify as meeting a predetermined standard}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakamana}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}