==English==

===Etymology===
* First attested in the 1610's.
* {{sense|exactness}} First attested in the 1650's.
* From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term/t|la|accūrātus||done with care}}, perfect past participle of {{term/t|la|accūrō||take care of}}; from {{term|ad-||to, towards, at|lang=la}} + {{term/t|la|cūrō||take care}}, from {{term/t|la|cūra||care}}.
* See [[#English|cure]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈæk.jɚ.ɪt/}}
* {{audio|En-us-accurate.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# In exact or [[careful]] conformity to truth; the result of care or pains; free from failure, error, or defect; exact; as, an ''accurate'' [[calculator]]; an ''accurate'' measure; ''accurate'' expression, knowledge, etc.
#* {{RQ:Schuster Hepaticae V|x}}
#*: For more than 90% of the figures (mostly drawn during 1976-1990), either a scale, or the given magnification, will allow the user to derive '''accurate''' measurements, even when these are lacking in the diagnosis.
# Deviating only slightly or within acceptable limits.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[precisely|Precisely]] fixed; [[executed]] with care; careful.
#* Bacon
#*: Those conceive the celestial bodies have more '''accurate''' influences upon these things below.

====Usage notes====
* We speak of a thing as '''correct''' with reference to some rule or standard of comparison; as, a '''correct''' account, a '''correct''' [[likeness]], a man of '''correct''' [[deportment]].
* We speak of a thing as '''accurate''' with reference to the care [[bestowed]] upon its execution, and the increased [[correctness]] to be [[expected]] [[therefrom]]; as, an '''accurate''' statement, an '''accurate''' [[detail]] of particulars.
* We speak of a thing as '''exact''' with reference to that perfected state of a thing in which there is no defect and no [[redundancy]]; as, an '''exact''' [[coincidence]], the '''exact''' truth, an '''exact''' likeness.
* We speak of a thing as '''precise''' when we think of it as [[strictly]] [[conformed]] to some rule or model, as if ''cut down'' [[thereto]]; as a '''precise''' conformity instructions; '''precisely''' right; he was very '''precise''' in giving his directions.

====Synonyms====
* [[correct]]
* [[exact]]
* [[just]]
* [[nice]]
* [[particular]]

====Antonyms====
* [[inaccurate]]

====Derived terms====
* [[accuracy]]
* [[accurately]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exact or careful conformity to truth}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مضبوط|tr=maḍbūṭ}}, {{t+|ar|دقيق|tr=daqīq|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ճիշտ}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|dəqiq}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|doi}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|дакладны|tr=dakládny|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|точен|tr=tóčen|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|прецизен|tr=precízen|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|exacte}}, {{t+|ca|precís}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|正確|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|正确|tr=zhèngquè|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|準確|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|准确|tr=zhǔnquè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přesný|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|accuraat}}, {{t+|nl|precies}}, {{t+|nl|exact}}, {{t|nl|trefzeker}}, {{t+|nl|nauwkeurig}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|täpne}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tarkka}}, {{t+|fi|täsmällinen}}, {{t|fi|paikkansapitävä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|précis}}, {{t+|fr|exact}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ზუსტი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|genau}}, {{t+|de|präzise}}, {{t+|de|exakt}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ακριβής|tr=akrivis}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|pontos}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|akurat}}, {{t+|id|teliti}}, {{t+|id|tepat}}, {{t+|id|cermat}}, {{t+|id|titis}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|accurate}}, {{t|ia|precise}}, {{t|ia|exacte}}, {{t|ia|juste}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|正確|tr=せいかくな, seikaku na|alt=正確な|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|精密|tr=せいみつな, seimitsu na|alt=精密な|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|juste}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|정확하다|tr=jeonghwak-han|alt=정확한|sc=Kore}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|precīzs}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|tikslus}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|точен|tr=tóčen|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|прецизен|tr=précizen|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tepat}}, {{t|ms|jitu}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دقیق|tr=daqiq|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dokładny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|preciso|m}}, {{t+|pt|exato|m}}, {{t+|pt|acurado|m}}, {{t+|pt|justo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|точный|tr=tóčnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|правильный|tr=právilʹnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|аккуратный|tr=akkurátnyj|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|careful}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cinnteach}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|точан|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|тачан|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|прецизан|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|točan}}, {{t|sh|tačan}}, {{t|sh|precizan}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|presný}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|natančen}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|preciso}}, {{t+|es|exacto}}, {{t+|es|justo}}, {{t+|es|correcto}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sanifu}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|ఖచ్చితమైన|tr=khachchitamaina|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kesin}}, {{t+|tr|dakik}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|точний|tr=tóčnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|докладний|tr=dokládnyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[carucate#English|carucate]]

[[Category:English adjectives]]

----

==Dutch==

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj-form}}

# {{nl-adj form of|infl|accuraat}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form|g=f-p}}

# {{feminine plural of|accurato|lang=it}}

===Anagrams===
* [[cacature#Italian|cacature]]

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
From {{term/t|la|accūrātus||elaborate, exact}}

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|accurat|accūrāt|e}}

# [[carefully]], [[precisely]], [[exactly]]

====Related terms====
* [[acuratio|accūrātiō]]
* [[accuratus|accūrātus]]
* [[accuro#Latin|accūrō]]

===References===
* Charlton T. Lewis ('''1891''') ''An Elementary Latin Dictionary'', 1st edition. (Oxford University Press)

[[ar:accurate]]
[[be:accurate]]
[[ca:accurate]]
[[cs:accurate]]
[[cy:accurate]]
[[et:accurate]]
[[el:accurate]]
[[fa:accurate]]
[[fr:accurate]]
[[gl:accurate]]
[[ko:accurate]]
[[io:accurate]]
[[id:accurate]]
[[it:accurate]]
[[kn:accurate]]
[[sw:accurate]]
[[ku:accurate]]
[[hu:accurate]]
[[mg:accurate]]
[[ml:accurate]]
[[my:accurate]]
[[nl:accurate]]
[[ja:accurate]]
[[oc:accurate]]
[[ps:accurate]]
[[pl:accurate]]
[[pt:accurate]]
[[ro:accurate]]
[[sa:accurate]]
[[simple:accurate]]
[[fi:accurate]]
[[sv:accurate]]
[[ta:accurate]]
[[te:accurate]]
[[th:accurate]]
[[chr:accurate]]
[[tr:accurate]]
[[vi:accurate]]
[[zh:accurate]]