==English==

===Etymology===
{{affix|en|accustom|-ed}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ə.ˈkʌs.təmd/}}
* {{audio|en|En-ca-accustomed.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
* {{hyphenation|en|ac|cus|tomed}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# (''of a person'') [[familiar|Familiar]] with something through [[repeat]]ed experience; adapted to existing conditions.
#: ''accustomed to walking long distances''
#: ''accustomed to cold''
#* '''1484''', {{w|William Caxton}} (translator), ''The Book of the Subtyl Historyes and {{w|Aesop's Fables|Fables of Esope}}'', “The v fable is of the Foxe and of the busshe,”<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A07095.0001.001]</sup>
#*: And ther fore men ought not to helpe them whiche ben '''acustomed''' to doo euylle
#* '''1621''', {{w|Robert Burton}}, ''{{w|The Anatomy of Melancholy}}'', Oxford: Henry Cripps, Partition 1, Section 2, Member 2, Subsection 3, p. 99,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A17310.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Such things as we haue beene long '''accustomed''' to, though they be evill in their owne nature; yet they are lesse offensiue.
#* '''1813''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''{{w|Pride and Prejudice}}'', London: T. Egerton, Volume III, Chapter 14,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/42671/42671-h/42671-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been '''accustomed''' to such language as this.”
#* '''1904''', {{w|Arthur Conan Doyle}}, “The Missing Three-Quarter” in ''{{w|The Return of Sherlock Holmes}}'', New York: McClure, Phillips & Co., 1905, p. 294,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/returnofsherlock00doyliala]</sup>
#*: Young Overton’s face assumed the bothered look of the man who is more '''accustomed''' to using his muscles than his wits {{...}}
#* '''1920''', {{w|F. Scott Fitzgerald}}, ''{{w|This Side of Paradise}}'', New York: Scribner, Book One, Chapter 2, p. 64,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sideofparadise00fitzrich]</sup>
#*: None of the Victorian mothers—and most of the mothers were Victorian—had any idea how casually their daughters were '''accustomed''' to be kissed.
# (''of a thing, condition, activity, etc.'') Familiar through use; usual; customary.
#* c. '''1605''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Macbeth}}'', Act V, Scene 5,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=macbeth&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: It is an '''accustomed''' action with her, to seem thus washing her hands: I have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour.
#* '''1749''', {{w|Henry Fielding}}, ''{{w|The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling}}'', Dublin: John Smith, Volume 1, Book 4, Chapter 9, p. 170,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004794856.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Molly had no sooner apparelled herself in her '''accustomed''' Rags, than her Sisters began to fall violently upon her {{...}}
#* '''1812''', {{w|Lord Byron}}, ''{{w|Childe Harold's Pilgrimage|Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage}}'', Canto 2, Stanza 72, in ''The Poetical Works of Lord Byron'', Boston: Cummings & Hilliard, 1814, Volume I, p. 249,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/009707749]</sup>
#*: Who now shall lead thy scatter’d children forth,
#*: And long-'''accustom’d''' bondage uncreate?
#* '''1912''', {{w|Rabindranath Tagore}}, ''{{w|Gitanjali}}'', London: The India Society, Section 63, p. 37,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/gitanjalisongoff00tago_0]</sup>
#*: I am uneasy at heart when I have to leave my '''accustomed''' shelter; I forget that there abides the old in the new, and that there also thou abidest.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Frequented by customers.
#* '''1778''', {{w|Tobias Smollett}} (translator), ''{{w|Gil Blas|The Adventures of Gil Blas of Santillane}}'' by {{w|Alain-René Lesage}}, London: S. Crowder ''et al.'', Volume I, Chapter 7, p. 148,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/009444325]</sup>
#*: There I got a place on the same terms as at Segovia, in a well '''accustomed''' shop, much frequented on account of the neighbourhood of the church of Santa Cruz, and the Prince’s theatre {{...}}
#* '''1817''', Seth William Stevenson<sup>[https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Stevenson,_Seth_William_(DNB00)]</sup>, ''Journal of a Tour through Part of France, Flanders, and Holland'', Norwich: for the author, Chapter 21, p. 283,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/journaloftourthr00stev]</sup>
#*: The pompous hotel is a lone cottage of very mean appearance, on the road side, and I will be sworn, was but an ill-'''accustomed''' ''Inn'', until those renowned Generals justly gave it a ''licence''.

===Usage notes===
When referring to a person, '''accustomed''' is only used [[predicative]]ly; when referring to a thing, it is only used [[attributive]]ly. The use of the infinitive following '''accustomed''' (e.g. ''accustomed '''to do''''') is obsolete; in contemporary English, the [[gerund]] is used in this context (e.g. ''accustomed '''to doing''''').

===Synonyms===
* {{sense|familiar through repeated experience}} {{l|en|habituate|habituated}}, {{l|en|inure|inured}}, {{l|en|used to}}, {{l|en|wonted}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|familiar}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|սովորական}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|свикнал}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|acostumat}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|cmn|慣咗|tr=gwaan3 zo2}}
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|習慣了}}, {{t|cmn|习惯了|tr=xíguànle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tottunut}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accoutumé}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|adoito|m}}, {{t|gl|afeito|m}}, {{t+|gl|acostumado|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|gewohnt}}, {{t+|de|gewöhnt}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cleachta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abituato}}, {{t+|it|avvezzo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|慣れる|tr=なれた, nareta|alt=慣れた}}
* Ladino: {{t-check|lad|alishtereádo|alt=alishtereádo}}
* Latin: {{t|la|suētus}}, {{t|la|solitus}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آشنا|tr=âšnâ}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acostumado}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|привы́кший}}
* Sanskrit: {{t+|sa|उचित}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cleachdte}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acostumbrado}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|van}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|alışkın}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|inured to; adapted to existing conditions}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|սովոր}}, {{t|hy|վարժված}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|öyrəncəkli }}, {{t|az|öyrəncəli}}, {{t|az|alışmış}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|acostumat}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cleachta}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cleachdte}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acostumbrado}}, {{t+|es|sólito}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|accustom}}