{{also|accusé}}
==English==
{{Webster 1913}}

===Etymology===
* First attested around 1300.
* From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|acusen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|acuser|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|accuso|accūsō|to call to account, accuse|lang=la}}, from {{term|ad||to|lang=la}} + {{term|causa||cause, lawsuit, reason|lang=la}}.
* Compare [[cause]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|əkyo͞ozʹ}}, {{IPA|/əˈkjuːz/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/@"kju:z/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.ˈkjuz/}}
* {{audio|En-us-accuse.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|uːz}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accus|ing}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To find [[fault]] with, to [[blame]], to [[censure]].
#* {{rfdate}} ''[[w:Epistle to the Romans|Epistle to the Romans]] 2:15,''
#*: ''Their thoughts the meanwhile '''accusing''' or else excusing one another.''
#* {{rfdate}} ''[[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]],''
#*: ''We are '''accused''' of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down their arms.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[charge]] with having [[commit]]ted a [[crime]] or [[offence]].
#: ''For the U.S. President to be impeached, he must be '''accused''' of a high crime or misdemeanor.''
#* {{rfdate}} ''[[w:Acts of the Apostles|Acts of the Apostles]] 24:13,''
#*: ''Neither can they prove the things whereof they now '''accuse''' me.''
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To make an accusation against someone.

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|legal}} When used this way accused is followed by the word '''of'''.
* Synonym notes: To ''accuse'', [[charge]], [[impeach]], [[arraign]]: these words agree in bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing.
** To ''accuse'' is a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not exclusively) to crimes; as, to ''accuse'' of treason.
** ''Charge'' is the most generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault, etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to ''charge'' with dishonesty or falsehood.
** To ''arraign'' is to bring (a person) before a tribunal for trial; as, to ''arraign'' one before a court or at the bar public opinion.
** To ''impeach'' is officially to charge with misbehavior in office; as, to ''impeach'' a minister of high crimes.
** Both ''impeach'' and ''arraign'' convey the idea of peculiar dignity or impressiveness.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|legal}} [[charge]], [[indict]], [[impeach]], [[arraign]]
* {{sense|}} [[blame]], [[censure]], [[reproach]], [[criminate]]

====Related terms====
* [[accusable]]
* [[accusation]]
* [[accusative]]
* [[accusatory]]
* [[accuser]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|attribute blame to someone}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|اتهم|alt=اِتَّهَمَ|tr=ittahama}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|acusar}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|абвінавачваць|tr=abvinaváčvac’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|be|абвінаваціць|tr=abvinavácic’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|обвинявам|tr=obvinjávam}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|acusar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|指責|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|指责|tr=zhǐzé|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|控告|tr=kònggào|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|譴責|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|谴责|tr=qiǎnzhé|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|指控|tr=zhǐkòng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|控訴|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|控诉|tr=kòngsù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|obvinit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beschuldigen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|akuzi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syyttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accuser}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|acusar}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|დაბრალება}}
* German: {{t-|de|beschuldigen}}
* Ido: {{t|io|akuzar}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tuduh|alt=menuduh}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|accusar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|accusare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|問う|tr=とう, tou|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|着せる|tr=きせる, kiseru|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|accusare}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|apkaltinti}}, {{t+|lt|kaltinti}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapae}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|beskylde}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|skulde}}, {{t-|nn|skylde}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|oskarżać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acusar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|винить|tr=vinítʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|обвинять|tr=obvinjátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|обвинить|tr=obvinítʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|wyte}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|cuir às leth}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|optužiti}}, {{t-|sh|okriviti}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|obtožiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acusar}}, {{t-|es|denunciar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|anklaga}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|suçlamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[להאשים]] (le'haashym)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} An [[accusation]].
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:English reporting verbs]]
[[Category:en:Criminal law]]

----

==French==

===Verb===
'''accuse'''

# {{form of|First- and third-person singular indicative present|accuser|lang=fr}}
# {{form of|First- and third-person singular subjunctive present|accuser|lang=fr}}
# {{form of|Ordinary second-person singular imperative present|accuser|lang=fr}}

[[Category:French verb forms]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''accuse''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|accusa|lang=it}}

[[ar:accuse]]
[[cs:accuse]]
[[de:accuse]]
[[et:accuse]]
[[el:accuse]]
[[fa:accuse]]
[[fr:accuse]]
[[gl:accuse]]
[[ko:accuse]]
[[io:accuse]]
[[id:accuse]]
[[it:accuse]]
[[kn:accuse]]
[[ku:accuse]]
[[lt:accuse]]
[[li:accuse]]
[[hu:accuse]]
[[mg:accuse]]
[[ml:accuse]]
[[my:accuse]]
[[nl:accuse]]
[[no:accuse]]
[[ps:accuse]]
[[pl:accuse]]
[[pt:accuse]]
[[ru:accuse]]
[[sm:accuse]]
[[simple:accuse]]
[[su:accuse]]
[[fi:accuse]]
[[sv:accuse]]
[[ta:accuse]]
[[te:accuse]]
[[th:accuse]]
[[tr:accuse]]
[[vi:accuse]]
[[zh:accuse]]