==English==
{{was wotd|2008|August|31}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|obsolete}} [[accurst]] {{defdate|13<sup>th</sup> C.}}

===Etymology===
* First attested in the early 13th century.
* From {{inh|en|enm|acursed}}, from {{m|enm|acursen|t=to curse}}, from {{der|en|ang|ācursian}}, from {{m|ang|ā}} + {{m|ang|cursen}}, from {{m|ang|curs|t=curse}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈkɜː.sɪd/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈkɝ.sɪd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-accursed.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}, {{audio|en-us-accursed-2.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|prenominal}} [[hateful|Hateful]]; [[detestable]].
#* ca. '''1789''', [[w:William Blake|William Blake]], "[[s:Tiriel|Tiriel]]",
#*: '''Accursed''' race of Tiriel. behold your father // Come forth & look on her that bore you. come you '''accursed''' sons.
#* '''1819''', [[w:Walter Scott|Walter Scott]], ''[[w:Ivanhoe|Ivanhoe]]'', [[s:Ivanhoe/Chapter 35|Chapter 35]],
#*: Lo! they are charged with studying the '''accursed''' cabalistical secrets of the Jews, and the magic of the Paynim Saracens.
# {{lb|en|archaic|theology}} [[doomed|Doomed]] to destruction or [[misery]]; [[cursed]]; [[anathematize]]d.
#* '''1885''', Charles Abel Heurtley (translator), ''The Commonitory of [[w:Vincent of Lérins|Vincent of Lérins]]'', [[s:Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers: Series II/Volume XI/The Commonitory of Vincent of Lerins/Chapter 8|Chapter 8]],
#*: {{...}}—if any one, be he who he may, attempt to alter the faith once for all delivered, let him be '''accursed'''.
#* '''1912'''<!--translation published-->, [[w:Fyodor Dostoevsky|Fyodor Dostoevsky]], translated by [[w:Constance Garnett|Constance Garnett]], ''[[w:The Brother Karamazov|The Brother Karamazov]]'', [[s:The Brothers Karamazov/Book III/Chapter 7|Book III, Chapter 7]],
#*: For at the very moment I become '''accursed''', at that same highest moment, I become exactly like a heathen {{...}}
#* '''1955''', [[w:J.R.R. Tolkien|J.R.R. Tolkien]], [[w:The Return of the King|The Return of the King]], [[s:The Return of the King/Book V, Chapter 10|Book V, Chapter 10]]
#*: We did not come here to waste words in treating with [[w:Sauron|Sauron]], faithless and '''accursed'''; still less with one of his slaves. Begone!

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|hateful, detestable}} {{l|en|execrable}}, {{l|en|damnable}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|accursedly}}
* {{l|en|accursedness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hateful}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|проклет}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|malbenita}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kirottu}}, {{t|fi|mokoma}}
* French: {{qualifier|also as attributes}} [[fichu]], {{t+|fr|satanée}}, {{t+|fr|détestable}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επάρατος|m}}, {{t+|el|καταραμένος|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|mallachtach}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|maldito}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|blestemat}}, {{t+|ro|afurisit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|archaic, theology: cursed}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|অভিশপ্ত}}, {{t|bn|শাপগ্রস্ত}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|прокълнат}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kirottu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maudit}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επάρατος|m}}, {{t+|el|καταραμένος|m}}, {{t+|el|επικατάρατος|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|accurse}}

{{catlangname|en|terms with unexpected syllabic -ed}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|cardecus|cue cards}}