{{also|Ace|ACE|aĉe|ače|-acé}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2014|November|27}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ās}}, {{IPA|/eɪs/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪs|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-ace.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm|en}} ''[[as]]'', from {{etyl|fro|en}} ''[[as]]'', from {{etyl|la|en}} ''[[as]]'', ''[[assis]]'', unity, copper coin, the unit of coinage. Compare [[as]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A single point or spot on a [[playing card]] or [[die]].
# A card or die [[face]] so marked.
#: ''I have the '''ace''' of diamonds.''
# A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a [[jot]].
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
#*: I'll not wag an '''ace''' further.
#* c. '''1658''' Dr. Henry More, ''Government of the Tongue'' :
#*: He will not bate an '''ace''' of absolute certainty.
# {{context|tennis|lang=en}} A [[serve]] won without the opponent hitting the ball.
# (US) {{context|baseball|lang=en}} The best [[pitcher]] on the [[team]].
# (US) {{context|baseball|dated|19th century|lang=en}} A [[run]].
# (US) {{context|golf|lang=en}} A [[hole in one]].
# An [[expert]] at something.
#* {{quote-news|year=2011
|date=September 29
|author=Jon Smith
|title=Tottenham   3 - 1   Shamrock Rovers
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15014632.stm
|page=
|passage=Mexican ace Dos Santos smashed home the third five minutes later after good work from Defoe.}}
# A military aircraft [[pilot]] who is credited with shooting down five or more enemy aircraft.
# (US) A perfect [[score]] on a school exam.

=====Usage notes=====
* Used as an exclamation to mean [[excellent]]. But see {{term|ace}} ''(adjective)''. Also in plural: [[aces]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|single point or spot}} [[pip]]

=====Coordinate terms=====
* {{list:playing cards/en}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{top3}}
* [[ace in the hole]]
* [[ace of aces]]
* [[ace up one's sleeve]]
* [[aces and eights]]
* [[air ace]]
* bate an ace (see [[bate]])
{{mid3}}
* [[be aces with]]
* [[easy aces]]
* [[flying ace]]
* [[fighter ace]]
* [[jet ace]]
* [[panzer ace]]
{{mid3}}
* [[return ace]]
* [[submarine ace]] / [[ace of the deep]]
* [[tank ace]] / [[tanker ace]]
* [[U-boat ace]]
* [[within an ace of]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|single point or spot on a card or die}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|едно|tr=edno}}, {{t+|bg|единица|f|tr=ediníca}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|as|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|merkki}} {{gloss|on a playing card}}, {{t+|fi|piste}} {{gloss|on a die}}
* French: {{t+|fr|as|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άσος|m|tr=ásos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|egy}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|as|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|as|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|единица|f|tr=jediníca}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|as|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|card with a single spot}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|آس|m|tr='aas}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|асо|tr=áso}}, {{t|bg|туз|m|tr=tuz}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|as|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|尖兒|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|尖儿|tr=jiānr|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|eso|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aas|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|aso}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ässä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|as|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ass|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άσος|m|tr=ásos}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אס|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ász}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|asso|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|エース|tr=ēsu}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|as|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|ئاس|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Äss|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|sat}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ass}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hai}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|áás}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آس|tr=âs|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|as|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ás|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|as|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|туз|m|tr=tuz}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|aon|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|as|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|ree}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ess|n}}, {{t+|sv|äss|n}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|aas}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|die face with a single spot}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|as|m}}
* French: {{t+|fr|as|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άσος|m|tr=ásos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|as|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|etta|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|very small quantity or degree}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ذرة|f|tr=dhárra}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|rahtu}}, {{t|fi|hitunen}}, {{t+|fi|tippa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|iota|m}}, {{t+|fr|chouïa|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|iotă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|йота|f|tr=jóta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tennis: point scored without the opponent hitting the ball}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|punt directe|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|eso|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ässä}}, {{t|fi|läpisyöttö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ace|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ass|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אס|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ász}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|エース|tr=ēsu}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|as|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|ace|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|as|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эйс|m|tr=ejs}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ace|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|äss|n}}, {{t+|sv|serveäss|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: best pitcher on the team}}
* Japanese: {{t-needed|ja}}
* Korean: {{t-needed|ko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|[[pitcher]] [[experto]]|m}}, {{t|es|[[lanzador]] [[experto]]|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|golf: hole in one|hole in one}}

{{trans-top|expert}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ас|m|tr=as}}
* Catalan: {{qualifier|sports}} {{t+|ca|as|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|高手|tr=gāoshǒu|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|eso|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ässä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|as|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ass|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άσος|m|tr=ásos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ász}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|asso|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|エース|tr=ēsu}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|asas|m}}, {{t+|lt|asė|f}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Ass|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ás|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ас|m|tr=as}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|es|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|äss|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|excellent military aircraft pilot}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|eso|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ässä}}, {{t|fi|hävittäjä-ässä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|as|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άσος|m|tr=ásos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ász}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|as|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|as|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|as|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|perfect score on a school exam}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kymppi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Mandarin:
*: Mandarin: {{t+check|cmn|王牌|tr=wángpái|sc=Hani}} (ace, king, trump - all three meanings?)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[utama]] / [[bintang]] / [[unggul]]an (1), [[as]] / [[kartu as]] (2)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[asse]] (1, 2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|ac}}

# (US) To [[pass]] (a test, interviews etc.) perfectly.
# {{context|tennis|lang=en}} To win a point by an ace.
# {{context|golf|lang=en}} To make an ace ([[hole in one]]).

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to pass a test}} [[pass with flying colours]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[ace it]]
* [[ace out]]

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|UK|slang|lang=en}} [[excellent|Excellent]].

=====Usage notes=====
* Used as exclamation. Also see [[ace#noun|ace]] ''(noun)'' above and [[aces]].

=====Synonyms=====
* [[excellent]]
* [[first-rate]]
* [[outstanding]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|excellent}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|թույն|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|դզող|sc=Armn}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|puik}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huippu|alt=huippu-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|asexual}} by shortening.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[asexual|Asexual]].
#* '''2009''', Anneli Rufus, "[http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/stuck/200906/asexuals-the-pride-parade Asexuals at the Pride Parade]", ''Psychology Today'', 22 June 2009:
#*: "Some people who identify as '''ace''' fall under the GLBT umbrella while many others do not. Members of the queer movement have reached out to asexuals to include them in their community. The acronym for this has now become GLBTQA (gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and asexual)."
#* '''2010''', Amy Ebersole, "[http://issuu.com/thedailyaztec/docs/da012510 Asexuality, not to be confused with celibacy]", ''The Daily Aztec'' (San Diego State University), 25 January 2010:
#*: “I was 14 when I first realized I had no interest in sex,” Jed Strohm, a happily satisfied, romantic asexual from upstate New York, said. “I identified as '''ace''' (asexual) and the group leader said I was too attractive.”
#* '''2013''', Andrea Garcia-Vargas, "[http://eye.columbiaspectator.com/?q=article/2013/03/28/sex-talk Ourselves, our sex, our choices]", ''The Eye'', 28 March 2013:
#*: “If you identify as '''ace''' [asexual] and you just don’t feel like having sex, then for me, sex-positive means, ‘That’s great! It’s fantastic you don’t want to have sex!’” says McGown.
#* {{seemoreCites|lang=en}}

=====Synonyms=====
* [[asexy]] {{qualifier|slang}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[acephobia]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|slang|lang=en}} A person who identifies as [[asexual]].
#* '''2012''', Tasmin Prichard, "[http://issuu.com/salientmagazine/docs/queerlient Freedom from Desire: Some Notes on Asexuality]", ''Salient'' (Victoria University of Wellington), 23 July 2012, page 20:
#*: Asexuals are programmed differently, like anybody else on the LGBTQXYZ spectrum, but difference is cool! Difference is perhaps the best part of being queer. Own it, '''aces'''!
#* '''2013''', Leigh Miller, "[http://issuu.com/jerk_magazine/docs/jerk_april (A)Sexual Healing]", ''Jerk'' (Syracuse University), Volume XII, Issue V, April 2013, page 23:
#*: Negativity toward asexuality can make emerging '''aces''' fear that something is wrong with them.
#* '''2014''', Emma Ianni, "[http://issuu.com/cornellsun/docs/02-04-14_entire_issue_lo_res/1 New Group to Bring Awareness Of C. U. Asexual Community]", ''The Cornell Daily Sun'' (Cornell University), Volume 130, Number 81, 4 February 2014, page 1:
#*: G. F. said she came up with the idea of creating an asexual group last semester, when she was struggling with the way being an '''ace''' was affecting her personal life.
#* {{seemoreCites|lang=en}}

===Anagrams===
* [[AEC#English|AEC]]
* [[CEA#English|CEA]]

[[Category:English clippings]]
[[Category:English three-letter words]]
[[Category:en:Card games]]
[[Category:en:Sexuality]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/eɪs/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{context|tennis|lang=fr}} [[ace#English|ace]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|acē}}

# {{inflection of|aceō||2|s|pres|actv|impr|lang=la}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{label|pt|tennis}} {{l/en|ace}} {{gloss|tennis: point scored without the opponent hitting the ball}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{label|es|tennis}} {{l|en|ace}} {{gloss|point scored without the opponent hitting the ball}}

[[ar:ace]]
[[bg:ace]]
[[ca:ace]]
[[cs:ace]]
[[et:ace]]
[[el:ace]]
[[es:ace]]
[[eo:ace]]
[[fa:ace]]
[[fr:ace]]
[[ko:ace]]
[[hy:ace]]
[[io:ace]]
[[it:ace]]
[[kn:ace]]
[[kk:ace]]
[[ku:ace]]
[[lt:ace]]
[[hu:ace]]
[[mg:ace]]
[[ml:ace]]
[[my:ace]]
[[nl:ace]]
[[ps:ace]]
[[pl:ace]]
[[ru:ace]]
[[fi:ace]]
[[sv:ace]]
[[ta:ace]]
[[te:ace]]
[[th:ace]]
[[chr:ace]]
[[tr:ace]]
[[vec:ace]]
[[vi:ace]]
[[zh:ace]]