==English==

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|fr|acéphale}}, from {{der|en|grc|ἀκέφαλος||headless}}, from {{m|grc|ἀ-||not}} + {{m|grc|κεφαλή||head}}. Synchronically, {{affix|en|a-|-cephalous}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/əˈsɛfələs/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-acephalous.wav|Audio (RP)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having no head.
#: {{syn|en|headless}}
#* '''1792''', Walter Vaughan, ''An Essay, Philosophical and Medical, Concerning Modern Clothing,'' Rochester, 1792, pp.{{nbsp}}58-59,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=nyp.33433011425810&view=1up&seq=77&skin=2021&q1=acephalous]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Mr. Cruickshank saw a Monster nine Months old, which lived thirty-six Hours after it was born, though it had no ''Cranium:'' {{...}} But is this a Reason that we should believe the vital Functions and the Increase of the Body have no dependence on the Brain? I think not: for such '''acephalous''' Subjects never live long {{...}}
#* '''1906''', {{w|Ambrose Bierce}}, ''{{w|The Devil's Dictionary|The Cynic’s Word Book}},'' New York: Doubleday, Page, p.{{nbsp}},<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=loc.ark:/13960/t0wq0kh39&view=1up&seq=21&skin=2021&q1=acephalous]</sup>
#*: '''A<small>CEPHALOUS</small>''', ''adj.'' In the surprising condition of the Crusader who absently pulled at his forelock some hours after a Saracen scimitar had, unconsciously to him, passed through his neck {{...}}
#* '''1916''', {{w|Don Marquis}}, “The Little Group Gives a Pagan Masque” in ''Hermione and Her Little Group of Serious Thinkers,'' New York: Appleton, p.{{nbsp}}164,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/hermioneherlittl00marq/page/164/mode/1up?q=acephalous]</sup>
#*: “But tell me, my Dea—my Psyche!—
#*: (With your wings outspread as to race
#*: With that swift and '''acephalous''' {{w|Nike (mythology)|Nike}}
#*: Who lost her bean somewhere in Thrace)—
# {{lb|en|zoology|applied to [[bivalve]] [[mollusk]]s}} Without a distinct head.
# {{lb|en|botany}} Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the apex, as is the case in certain [[ovary|ovaries]]
# Without a leader or chief.
#: {{syn|en|leaderless}}
#: {{ux|en|an '''acephalous''' society / community}}
#* '''1685''', Archibald Lovell (translator), ''An Historical Treatise of the Foundation and Prerogatives of the Church of Rome and of Her Bishops'' by {{w|Louis Maimbourg}}, London: Jos. Hindmarsh, Chapter{{nbsp}}25, p.{{nbsp}}318-319,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A51460.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} an Oecumenical Council is a ''whole,'' and a Body whereof the Pope, or he that presides in it in his place, is the Head[.] For there is no '''Acephalous''' Council, as ''{{w|Emmanuel Schelstrate|M. Schelstrate}}'' speaks, that is to say, without a Head, calling that of ''{{w|Council of Constance|Constance}}'' so in the Absence of the Pope.
#* '''1870''', {{w|Richard Francis Burton}}, ''Letters from the Battle-Fields of Paraguay,'' London: Tinsley Brothers, Introductory Essay, p.{{nbsp}}54,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/lettersfrombattl02burt/page/54/mode/1up?q=acephalous]</sup>
#*: A very brief '''acephalous''' interim followed the death of the dark Dictator.
# {{lb|en|prosody}} [[deficient|Deficient]] in the beginning, as a line of poetry that is missing its expected opening syllable.
#* '''1746''', T. Nugent (translator), ''A New Method of Learning with Greater Facility the Greek Tongue'' by {{w|Claude Lancelot}}, London: J. Nourse and G. Hawkins, Volume{{nbsp}}2, Book{{nbsp}}9, p.{{nbsp}}348,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=njp.32101066874478&view=1up&seq=358&skin=2021&q1=acephalous]</sup>
#*: They have '''''acephalous''''' or headless Verses, which commence with a short Syllable instead of a long one:
#* '''1934''', Robert Swann and Frank Sidgwick, ''The Making of Verse: A Guide to English Metres,'' London: Sidgwick & Jackson, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}16,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/makingofversegui0000swan/page/16/mode/1up?q=acephalous]</sup>
#*: Sometimes verse lines “jump” the first syllable (in [[anapaestic]] and [[dactylic]] measures the first two syllables) of a regular [[metre]]. Such lines are said to be '''''acephalous''''' (headless) or, as [[acrostic]] writers would put it, “beheaded.”
# (''of a [[manuscript]]'') Lacking the first portion of the [[text]].
#: {{coordinate terms|en|acaudal|atelous}}
# {{lb|en|rare}} Without a beginning.
#* '''1828''', {{w|Thomas de Quincey}}, review of ''Elements of Rhetoric'' by {{w|Richard Whately}}, in ''Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine,'' Volume{{nbsp}}24, No.{{nbsp}}147, December 1828, p.{{nbsp}}905,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=mdp.39015028027962&view=1up&seq=933&skin=2021&q1=acephalous]</sup>
#*: Men wrote eloquently, because they wrote feelingly: they wrote idiomatically, because they wrote naturally, and without affectation: but if a false or '''acephalous''' structure of sentence,—if a barbarous idiom—or an exotic word happened to present itself, no writer of the 17th century seems to have had any such scrupulous sense of the dignity belonging to his own language, as should make it a duty to reject it, or worth his while to re-model a line.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|acephalously}}

====Related terms====
{{rel3|en
|acephalia
|acephalic
|acephaly
|bicephalous
|monocephalous
|polycephalous
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|having no head|headless}}

{{trans-see|without a leader or chief|leaderless}}
{{ttbc-top}}
* Irish: {{t-check|ga|aiceifileach}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}