==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|de|Akronym}}, from {{der|en|grc|ἄκρον||[[end]], [[peak]]}} and {{m|grc|ὄνυμα||[[name]]}}, equivalent to {{confix|en|acro|onym|t1=[[high]]; [[beginning]]|t2=[[name]]}}.<ref name=oed/> Modelled after {{m|de|Homonym}} and {{m|de|Synonym}}, first attested in German in the early 1900s<ref>Gerhard Stilz, ''Studien zur englischen Philologie, Nummer 21'', Niemeyer., 1905</ref> and in English in 1940.<ref name=oed>[http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/1844 "acronym, ''n.''"], in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'', Oxford: Oxford University Press.</ref>
{{root|en|ine-pro|*h₂eḱ-}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈæk.ɹə.nɪm/}}
* {{audio|en|en-uk-acronym.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|linguistics}} An [[abbreviation]] formed by the [[initial]] letters of other words, sometimes [[exclusively]] such abbreviations when pronounced as a word (as "[[laser]]") rather than as individual letters ([[initialism]]s such as "[[TNT]]").
#* '''1940''', W. Muir & al. translating L. Feuchtwanger's ''Paris Gazette'', iii, xlvii, p. 518:
#*: Pee-gee-enn. It's an '''acronym''', that's what it is. That's what they call words made up of initials.
#* '''2014''' September 23, "[http://www.theguardian.com/education/2014/sep/23/choosing-primary-school-guide-teachers-guide-for-parents Choosing a Primary School: A Teacher's Guide for Parents]", ''The Guardian'':
#*: Some teachers festoon every spare inch of wall with vocabulary choices or maths techniques to use, which look great at first, but to some children might appear quite daunting. You'll probably see unfamiliar '''acronyms''' such as Walt (We Are Learning To). Be sure to ask what they stand for and how they are used in practice.
# {{lb|en|linguistics}} An [[abbreviation]] formed by the [[beginning]] letters or syllables of other words (as "[[Benelux]]").
#* '''1950''', Simeon Potter, ''Our Language'', p. 163:
#*: '''Acronyms''' or telescoped names like ''nabisco'' from ''National Biscuit Company''.

====Usage notes====
The broader sense of acronym inclusive of [[initialism]]s (as "[[TNT]]") is sometimes proscribed,<ref name=mw>[https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/acronym "acronym"] in ''Merriam–Webster Online'', [[w:Springfield, Massachusetts|Springfield]]: Merriam–Webster.</ref> but is the term's original and more common meaning.<ref name=oed/><ref name=mw/> Within [[Wiktionary:Main Page|Wiktionary]], however, the template {{tl|acronym of}} is used for the more restrictive sense of the word and is distinguished from {{tl|initialism of}}. The status of an acronym's pronunciation is not always obvious, as some initialisms have gained interstitial vowels to ease their expression (as /ˈwɪzdəl/ for "[[WSDL]]")<ref>http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/lol/acronym.html</ref> and others are pronounced alternatively as words or initialisms (as /ˈsiːkwəl/ or /ɛskjuːɛl/ for "[[SQL]]").<ref>S.Q.L or Sequel: How do you pronounce SQL? http://www.vertabelo.com/blog/notes-from-the-lab/sql-or-sequel. Retrieved on May 19, 2016.</ref>

Acronyms in all senses may variously be written in all capital letters (as "[[UNESCO]]" or "[[WYSIWYG]]") or in lower case (as "[[scuba]]" or "[[sitcom]]"), according to the degree to which they have come to be seen as words separate from their derivation. American style guides tend to favor the use of capital spelling for pronounced acronyms of four letters or fewer (as "[[NATO]]") whereas British style guides tend to favor standard capitalization of pronounced acronyms as though they were a standard word ("[[Nato]]"). Acronyms formed from beginning syllables are sometimes written in [[camel case]] (as "[[EpiPen]]" or "[[CHiPs]]"), although this may be precluded by style guides. Mixed capitalization is also sometimes used when acronyms include words usually left uncapitalized in [[title case]] but which have been included for pronunciation or clarity (as "[[VaR]]" for "[[Value at Risk]]"); in other cases, the standard acronym capitalizes such minor words as well (as "[[TOEFL]]" for the "[[w:Test of English as a Foreign Language|Test of English as a Foreign Language]]").

Like all abbreviations, acronyms were formerly usually punctuated with [[full stop]]s or [[period]]s to mark the divisions between the original words (as "[[U.S.A.]]" or "[[P.R.C.]]") but this punctuation is increasingly omitted, particularly in the case of acronyms treated as generic words (as "[[radar]]" and "[[sonar]]") and in acronyms formed from syllables rather than letters. [[folk etymology|Folk etymologies]] frequently imagine acronyms for such common words as "[[fuck]]", "[[shit]]", and "[[posh]]" but the earliest English acronym listed by the ''OED'' is a form of "[[abjad]]" in 1793<ref>[http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/271930 "abjad, ''n.''"], in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'', Oxford: Oxford University Press.</ref> and they did not become common until the world wars of the early 20th century.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|broader sense}} {{l|en|initialism}}

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|all senses}} {{l|en|abbreviation}}

====Derived terms====
{{der4|en
|acronymania
|acronymic
|acronymization
|acronymous
|apronym
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|any abbreviation formed by initial letters}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اِخْتِصَار|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|首字母縮略詞}}, {{t|cmn|首字母缩略词|tr=shǒuzìmǔ suōlüècí}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|akronym|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akronimo}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|akronüüm}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kirjainlyhenne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sigle|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αρκτικόλεξο|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|upphafsstafaheiti|n}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|acrainm|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sigla}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|akronym|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|akronym|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|akronim|m}}, {{t+|pl|skrót|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sigla}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|acranaim|m}}, {{t|gd|geàrr-ainm|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|acrònimu|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sigla}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|akronim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|word formed by initial letters}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اِخْتِصَار|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|acrònim|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|縮寫|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|缩写|tr=suōxiě|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|縮略詞|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|缩略词|tr=suōlüècí|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|略語|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|略语|tr=lüèyǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|akronym|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|akronym|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|acroniem|n}}, {{t+|nl|letterwoord|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|akronimo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kirjainsana}}, {{t+|fi|akronyymi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|acronyme|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|acrónimo|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Akronym|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ακρώνυμο|n}}, {{t+|el|ακρωνύμιο|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ראשי תיבות|m-p|tr=rashéi teivót}}
* Hungarian: {{q|in general}} {{t+|hu|mozaikszó}}, {{q|initialism as a subtype}} {{t+|hu|betűszó}}, {{q|blend word as a subtype}} {{t+|hu|szóösszevonás}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|acronymo}}, [[initial|initiales]] <!--disputed - see discussion page-->
* Irish: {{t|ga|acrainm|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|acronimo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|頭字語|tr=とうじご, tōjigo}}, {{t|ja|アクロニム|tr=akuronimu}}, {{t+|ja|略語|tr=りゃくご, ryakugo}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|약어}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kupu rāpoto}}, {{t|mi|pūtaukī}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|akronym|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|akronym|n}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|acronim|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|akronim|m-in}}, {{t+|pl|skrót|m-in}}, {{t+|pl|skrótowiec|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acrônimo|m}} {{q|Brazil}}, {{t+|pt|acrónimo|m}} {{q|Portugal}}, {{t|pt|acrograma|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acronim|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|акро́ним|m}}, {{t+|ru|сокраще́ние|n}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|acranaim|m}}, {{t|gd|geàrr-ainm|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|акроним|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|akronim|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|acrònimu|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kratica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acrónimo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|akronym|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|akronim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pres_ptc2=acronymming|past2=acronymmed}}

# To form into an [[acronym]].

===See also===
* [[:Category:English shortenings]] - ''a list of all abbreviated forms''
* {{l|en|backronym}}
* {{l|en|initialism}}
* {{l|en|mnemonic}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=acmnory|Cormany|romancy}}