{{also|Appendix:Variations of "ad"}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
{{head|mul|symbol}}

# The [[ISO]] 3166-1 two-letter (alpha-2) code for [[Andorra]].

[[Category:ISO 3166-1]]

----

==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|En-us-AD.ogg|audio (US)}}

==={{initialism}}===
{{head|en|initialism|head=AD or A.D.}}

qi Latin ''[[anno Domini]]'', [[in the year of our Lord]], used to specify numbered years counting from the once estimated birth of Christ in year 1. Usually placed before years (but see notes), and always placed after centuries. Often written in [[small caps]]. This year is <small>AD</small> {{CURRENTYEAR}}.
#: ''Jan. 1, '''<small>AD</small>''' 250.''
#: ''From the 2nd century <small>BC</small> to the 3rd century '''<small>AD</small>'''.''
# assistant director.
# air defence
# [[antidepressant]]

====Usage notes====
* The [[w:Chicago Manual of Style|Chicago Manual of Style]] as well as most house styles require placing the '''AD''' before the number of the year, although in casual use it is frequently found following the year.
* Some use [[CE]] for [[Common Era]], which is more secular in nature.
* "AD" in the expression "in the year AD 1990" is not normally used since in such a year it is taken for granted. In "Vesuvius erupted in AD 79" it is expected.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|anno Domini}} [[anno Domini]], [[Anno Domini]], [[CE]], [[Common Era]], [[in the year of our Lord]]

====Antonyms====
* (''anno Domini''): [[b.c.]], [[BC]], [[B.C.]], [[BCE]]
y:.iiiiiiiiiklooiutiiiioiuywruwu-
====Translations====
{{trans-top|anno Domini}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|A. D.}}
* Danish: {{t|da|e.Kr.}} (''[[efter Kristus]]'')
* Dutch: [[n.Chr]] (''[[na Christus]]'')
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|p.K.|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jKr.}} (''[[jälkeen Kristuksen]]'')
* French: [[ap. JC]] (''[[après Jésus-Christ]]''), [[en l'an de grâce]] {{qualifier|archaic}}
* German: {{t|de|n. Chr.}} (''[[nach Christus]]'')
* Greek: {{t|el|μ.Χ.|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: [[d.C.]] (''dopo Cristo'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[西暦]] (seireki), [[紀元]] (kigen)
* Latin: [[p.Chr.n.]] (''[[post Christum natum]]''))
* Lithuanian: [[m.e]] {{f}}
* Malay: [[M]] (''[[Masihi]]'')
* Polish: {{t|pl|n.e.}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|после Р. Хр.|tr=pósle Roždestvá Xristóva}}, {{t|ru|н. э.|tr=nášej éry}}
* Spanish: [[A.C.]], [[Año de Cristo]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|e.Kr.}} (''[[efter Kristus]]'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|air defence}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õhukaitse}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[da#English|da]], [[Da#English|Da]], [[DA#English|DA]]

[[Category:en:Calendar terms]]

----

==Italian==

===Initialism===
'''AD'''

# [[CEO]] ([[amministratore delegato]])

===Anagrams===
* [[da#Italian|da]], [[da'#Italian|da']], [[dà#Italian|dà]]

[[Category:Italian initialisms]]

----

==Swedish==

===Abbreviation===
{{head|sv|abbreviation}}

# the Swedish Labour Court; {{abbreviation of|lang=sv|arbetsdomstolen}}
# a combination of [[vitamin A]] and [[vitamin D|D]], given to children (in 2008 replaced by only vitamin D)
# {{abbreviation of|lang=sv|art director}}

====See also====
* [[AD-droppar]]

[[af:AD]]
[[cs:AD]]
[[de:AD]]
[[et:AD]]
[[el:AD]]
[[eo:AD]]
[[fr:AD]]
[[ko:AD]]
[[hu:AD]]
[[my:AD]]
[[nl:AD]]
[[ja:AD]]
[[pl:AD]]
[[ru:AD]]
[[sk:AD]]
[[sv:AD]]
[[th:AD]]
[[tr:AD]]