{{also|ADD}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la}} {{term|addere|lang=la}}, from {{term|lang=la|ad}} + {{term|dare||to give, put|lang=la}}. Compare {{term|date}}, {{term|do}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/æd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-add.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æd}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[join]] or [[unite]], as one thing to another, or as several [[particular]]s, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity{{,}} or enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To sum up; to put together mentally.
#: ''to '''add''' numbers''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Locke|John Locke]]
#*: {{...}}as easily as he can '''add''' together the ideas of two days or two years.
# {{transitive}} To combine elements of (something) into one quantity.
#: ''to '''add''' a column of numbers''
# {{transitive}} To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on).
#* '''1611''', [[King James Version]], [[Genesis]] 30:24:
#*: The LORD shall '''add''' to me another son.
#* '''1667''', [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], [[w:Paradise Lost|Paradise Lost]]:
#*: Back to thy punishment, False fugitive, and to thy speed '''add''' wings.
# {{transitive}} To append, as a statement; to say further.
#* '''1855''', [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''The History of England from the Accession of James the Second'', volume 3, page 37&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=w_M9AAAAcAAJ&pg=PA37&dq=added]:
#*: He '''added''' that he would willingly consent to the entire abolition of the tax
#* '''1900''', L. Frank Baum , ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' Chapter 23
#*: "Bless your dear heart," she said, "I am sure I can tell you of a way to get back to Kansas." Then she '''added''', "But, if I do, you must give me the Golden Cap."
# {{intransitive}} To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase.
#: ''It '''adds''' to our anxiety.''
#* '''1611''', [[King James Version]], 1 [[Kings]] 12:14:
#*: I will '''add''' to your yoke
# {{intransitive|mathematics}} To perform the arithmetical operation of [[addition]].
#: ''He '''adds''' rapidly.''

====Synonyms====
* [[annex]]
* [[coalesce]]
* [[join]]
* [[unite]]
* {{sense|To append, as a statement; to say further}} [[mention]], [[note]]

====Antonyms====
* [[remove]]

====Usage notes====
* We '''add''' by bringing things together so as to form a whole.
* We '''join''' by putting one thing to another in close or continuous connection.
* We '''annex''' by attaching some adjunct to a larger body.
* We '''unite''' by bringing things together so that their parts adhere or intermingle.
* Things '''coalesce''' by coming together or mingling so as to form one organization.
* To '''add''' quantities; to '''join''' houses; to '''annex''' territory; to '''unite''' kingdoms; to make parties '''coalesce'''

====Derived terms====
* [[adder#Noun 2|adder]]
* [[addition]]
* [[additive]]
* [[add-on]]
* [[add up]]

====Related terms====
* [[addend]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to append, as a statement}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հավելել|tr=havelel}}, {{t-|hy|ավելացնել|tr=avelac’nel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|добавям}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|afegir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|加|tr=jiā|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisätä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ajouter}}
* German: {{t+|de|addieren}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוסיף|tr=hosíf}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|जोड़ना|tr=jōṛnā|xs=Hindi}}
* Italian: {{t|it|aggiungere   }}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|加える|tr=くわえる, kuwaeru}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|menambah}}
* Novial: [[adi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dodać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acrescentar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|adăuga}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|добавлять|tr=dobavlját'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|добавить|tr=dobávit'}} {{pf.}}
* Sardinian:
*: Gallurese Sardinian: {{tø|sdn|aggjugnì }}
*: Logudorese Sardinian: {{tø|src|annanghere}}
* Scots: {{tø|sco|acciùngiri }}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|додати|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|añadir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lägga till}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|جوڑنا|tr=jōṛnā|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nói|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make an addition}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|اضاف|tr=iDaafa}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{tø|arz|زود|tr=zawwad}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ավելացնել|tr=avelac’nel}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|enantar}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|прибавям}}, {{t|bg|разширявам}}
* Catalan: [[afegir]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|加|tr=jiā|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|添|tr=tiān|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|添加|tr=tiānjiā|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přidat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toevoegen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisätä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|additionner}}, {{t+|fr|ajouter}}, {{t+|fr|sommer}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დამატება|tr=damateba|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|hinzufügen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוסיף|tr=hosíf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|जोड़ना|tr=jōṛnā|xs=Hindi}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|追加する|tr=ついかする, tsuika-suru}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tambah}}, {{t|ms|tambahkan}}
* Maltese: [[żied]]
* Novial: [[adi]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dodawać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|adicionar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|adăuga}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|добавлять|tr=dobavlját'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|добавить|tr=dobávit'}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|añadir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|addera}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|جوڑنا|tr=jōṛnā|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|thêm|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|ychwanegu|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform the arithmetical operation of addition}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|جمع|tr=jáma3a}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|գումարել|tr=gumarel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|прибавям}}, {{t|bg|сумирам}}
* Catalan: [[sumar]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|加|tr=jiā|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|sečíst}}
* Danish: {{t|da|lægge sammen}}, {{t|da|addere}}, {{t|da|summere}}
* Dutch: [[optellen]], [[bijtellen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laskea yhteen}}, {{t-|fi|summata}}
* French: [[additionner]], [[faire une addition]]
* German: {{t+|de|addieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|חיבר|tr=khibér}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|足す|tr=たす, tasu}}
* {{trreq|la}}
* Maltese: [[żied]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dodać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|somar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|aduna}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|прибавлять|tr=pribavlját'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|прибавить|tr=pribávit'}} {{pf.}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|сабрати|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|додати|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|adicionar}}, {{t+|es|sumar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|addera}}, {{t+|sv|summera}}, {{t+|sv|lägga ihop}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[adjuntar]] (join), [[adicionar]] (numbers)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tambah]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[더하다]] (deo-hada), [[Hanja]]: [[추가하다]] (chuga-hada)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{video games}} An [[additional]] enemy that joined the fight after the primary target.
#: After engaging the boss for one minute, two '''adds''' will arrive from the back and must be dealt with.
# {{computer science}} An act or instance of adding.

===Anagrams===
* [[dad#English|dad]], [[Dad#English|Dad]], [[DAD#English|DAD]]

[[Category:English reporting verbs]]
[[Category:English three-letter words]]

[[am:add]]
[[ar:add]]
[[zh-min-nan:add]]
[[cs:add]]
[[cy:add]]
[[de:add]]
[[et:add]]
[[el:add]]
[[es:add]]
[[eu:add]]
[[fa:add]]
[[fr:add]]
[[gl:add]]
[[ko:add]]
[[hy:add]]
[[hr:add]]
[[io:add]]
[[it:add]]
[[kn:add]]
[[kk:add]]
[[sw:add]]
[[ku:add]]
[[lo:add]]
[[lt:add]]
[[li:add]]
[[hu:add]]
[[mg:add]]
[[ml:add]]
[[ms:add]]
[[my:add]]
[[nl:add]]
[[ja:add]]
[[no:add]]
[[pl:add]]
[[pt:add]]
[[ru:add]]
[[simple:add]]
[[fi:add]]
[[sv:add]]
[[tl:add]]
[[ta:add]]
[[te:add]]
[[th:add]]
[[tr:add]]
[[uk:add]]
[[vi:add]]
[[zh:add]]