==English==
{{was wotd|2015|November|7}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈæd(ə)lɪŋ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋ|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|addl|ing|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
{{suffix|[[addle#Verb|addle]]|ing|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{alternative form of|addlings|lang=en}} ([[earnings]]).

===Etymology 2===
{{suffix|[[addle#Verb 2|addle]]|ing|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# Causing [[fertilised]] [[egg]]s to lose [[viability]], by [[killing]] the developing [[embryo]] within through [[shaking]], [[piercing]], [[freezing]] or [[oiling]], without breaking the shell.
#* {{quote-book|author=Earl Leitritz|coauthors=Robert C[onklin] Lewis|title=Trout and Salmon Culture (Hatchery Methods) [California Fish Bulletin; 164]|location=Oakland, Calif.|publisher=[[w:University of California|University of California Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources]]|year=1980|page=24|isbn=978-0-931876-36-3|passage=The familiar hatchery practice of agitating the eggs after they are eyed, called shocking or '''addling''', ruptures the yolk membranes of the ever-tender sterile eggs. The result is a precipitation of the globulin and a whitening of the egg.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Ian Newton|authorlink=Ian Newton|chapter=Causes of Breeding Failure in Wild Raptors: A Review|editors=Patrick T[homas] Redig, John E. Cooper, J. David Remple, D. Bruce Hunter|title=Raptor Biomedicine|location=Minneapolis, Minn.|publisher={{w|University of Minnesota Press}}|year=1993|pages=66–67|isbn=978-0-8166-2219-1|passage=Egg '''addling''' was important in several species, but it was not recorded what proportion of the unhatched eggs were fertile. Compared with the amount of egg '''addling''' in some other birds, the amount among raptors is often high. In part this '''addling''' is linked with food conditions, as mentioned, and perhaps with the nutritional state of the female.}}
#* {{quote-journal|author=George Reiger|title=More Bad News on Big Birds|journal={{w|Field & Stream}}|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher=[[w:Los Angeles Times|Times Mirror Magazines]]|month=July|year=2002|volume=CVII|issue=3|page=56|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=0JE-pZ9T1JgC&pg=PA56|issn=8755-8599|passage=There are only two ways to remedy the mute-swan situation: Pay people to locate nests and addle their eggs ('''''addling''''' means shaking each egg hard to kill the embryo inside; if you smash the eggs, the birds will lay replacements, but swans will sit on addled eggs and not lay more), or authorized licensed hunters to shoot the birds. '''Addling''' is not only time consuming and expensive, but it's also dangerous because swans regard people who invade their nesting territory as just a larger kind of raccoon.}}
#* {{quote-book|author={{w|United States Congress}}, [[w:United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives]], Committee on Resources, Subcommittee on Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife, and Oceans|title=Fiscal Year 2004 Budget Requests for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: Oversight Hearing before the Subcommittee on Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans of the Committee on Resources, U.S. House of Representatives, One Hundred Eighth Congress, First Session, March 19, 2003|location=Washington, D.C.|publisher=[[w:United States Government Publishing Office|Government Printing Office]]|date=19 March 2003|volume=4|page=47|isbn=978-0-16-070946-3|passage=[I]n 1999, we issued regulations for a special Canada goose permit to provide state wildlife agencies the ability to manage and control resident population Canada geese. These permits can authorize '''addling''' of eggs from March 11 through August 31.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Ian Newton|authorlink=Ian Newton|title=The Sparrowhawk|location=Calton, Staffordshire|publisher={{w|T. & A. D. Poyser}}|year=2010|page=347|isbn=978-1-4081-3834-2|passage='''Addling''' accounted for 1% of clutches laid, 1% of all nests, and 2% of all complete failures. {{...}} In most addled clutches all the eggs remained intact, but in some, one or more eggs were broken during incubation. {{...}} [W]hile some egg '''addling''' was due to pollutants, other '''addling''' was probably due to natural factors.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Russell F. Reidinger|coauthors=James E. Miller|title=Wildlife Damage Management: Prevention, Problem Solving & Conflict Resolution|location=Baltimore, Md.|publisher={{w|Johns Hopkins University Press}}|year=2013|page=114|isbn=978-1-4214-0944-3|passage=Physical methods are sometimes used to reduce or eliminate fertility. Methods include physical '''addling''' and surgical sterilization. Meaning "loss of development," '''addling''' in the strictest sense is destruction of eggs by shaking. '''Addling''' has come to mean destroying eggs by any physical or chemical means&nbsp;– puncturing, freezing, or coating with vegetable oil.}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|present participle}}

# {{present participle of|addle|lang=en|nocat=1}}.

[[de:addling]]
[[fr:addling]]
[[my:addling]]
[[sv:addling]]
[[vi:addling]]