==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*yewg-}}
From {{uder|en|la|adiunctus}}, perfect passive participle of {{m|la|adiungō||join to}}, from {{m|la|ad}} + {{m|la|iungō||join}}. {{doublet|en|adjoint}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈædʒ.ʌŋkt/}}
* {{audio|en|En-us-adjunct.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ædʒʌŋkt|s=2}}
* {{hyphenation|en|ad|junct}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[appendage]]; something [[attach]]ed to something else in a [[subordinate]] [[capacity]].
#* {{RQ:Marlowe Tamburlaine|1|I|ii|url=https://books.google.com/books?id=0HFGOmnsvAMC&pg=PP22|Lie here ye weedes that I diſdaine to weare,<br>This compleat armor, and this curtle-axe<br>Are '''adiuncts''' more beſeeming ''Tamburlaine''.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Love's Labour's Lost|IV|iii|135|passage=Learning is but an '''adiunct''' to our ſelfe,<br>And where we are, our Learning likewiſe is.}}
# A [[person]] [[associate]]d with another, usually in a subordinate [[position]]; a [[colleague]].
#* {{RQ:Wotton Parallel}}
#*: {{quote|en|Lord Cottington (as an '''adjunct''' of singular experience and trust)}}
# {{lb|en|brewing}} An [[unmalted]] [[grain]] or grain product that [[supplement]]s the main [[mash]] ingredient.
# {{lb|en|dated|metaphysics}} A [[quality]] or [[property]] of the body or mind, whether natural or acquired, such as colour in the body or judgement in the mind.
# {{lb|en|music}} A [[key]] or [[scale]] closely related to another as [[principal]]; a relative or attendant key.
# {{lb|en|grammar}} A [[dispensable]] [[phrase]] in a [[clause]] or [[sentence]] that [[amplify|amplifies]] its meaning, such as "for a while" in "I typed for a while".
# {{lb|en|syntax|X-bar theory}} A [[constituent]] which is both the daughter and the sister of an [[X-bar]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1988|author=Andrew Radford| title=Transformational grammar: a first course| location=Cambridge, UK| publisher=Cambridge University Press| page=177}}
#*: We can see from (34) that Determiners are sisters of N-bar and daughters of N-double-bar; '''Adjuncts''' are both sisters and daughters of N-bar; and Complements are sisters of N and daughters of N-bar. This means that '''Adjuncts''' resemble Complements in that both are daughters of N-bar; but they differ from Complements in that '''Adjuncts''' are sisters of N-bar, whereas Complements are sisters of N. Likewise, it means that '''Adjuncts''' resemble Determiners in that both are sisters of N-bar, but they differ from Determiners in that '''Adjuncts''' are daughters of N-bar, whereas Determiners are daughters of N-double-bar.
# {{lb|en|rhetoric}} [[symploce|Symploce]].
# {{lb|en|category theory}} One of a pair of [[morphism]]s which relate to each other through a pair of [[adjoint functor]]s.
# {{lb|en|linguistics}} An [[optional]]  or [[structurally]] [[dispensable]], part of a [[sentence]], [[clause]], or [[phrase]] that, if removed or [[discarded]], will not [[structurally]] affect the [[remainder]] of the [[sentence]].


====Synonyms====
* {{sense|something attached to something else}} {{l|en|addition}}, {{l|en|supplement}}; See also [[Thesaurus:adjunct]]
* {{sense|person associated with another}} See also [[Thesaurus:associate]] (''colleague'') or [[Thesaurus:attendant]] (''subordinate'')

====Derived terms====
{{der2|en
|adjunct professor
|adjunct treatment
|noun adjunct
|numerary adjunct
|adjuncthood
|adjunction
|adjunctive}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|appendage}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|притурка}}, {{t+|bg|приложение}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|从属}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bepaling|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|adjunkti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|complément|m}}, {{t+|fr|attribut|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Hilfs-}}, {{t|de|Zusatz-}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|부가물}}, {{t|ko|부속물}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|adjunto|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|adjunto|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ek}}, {{t+|tr|ilave}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|ychwanegiad|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar: dispensable phrase}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فَضْلَة|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გარემოება}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|[[szabad]] [[bővítmény]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|keterangan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Connected in a [[subordinate]] function.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare King John|III|iii|11|passage=Though that my death were '''adiunct''' to my Act,<br>By heauen I would doe it.}}
# Added to a [[faculty]] or staff in a [[secondary]] position.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Connected in a subordinate function}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дополнительный|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nl|dum|adjoinct}}, from {{der|nl|la|adiunctus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|nl|/ɑˈdjʏŋkt/|/ɑtˈjʏŋkt/}}
* {{audio|nl|Nl-adjunct.ogg|Audio}}
* {{hyphenation|nl|ad|junct}}
* {{rhymes|nl|ʏŋkt}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-en|-}}

# An {{l|en|adjunct}}, a [[subordinate]] person, esp. an [[attendant]] of a government [[official]].

====Related terms====
* {{l|nl|adjunct-directeur}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|id|bor=1|ajun}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|ro|de|Adjunkt}} or {{bor|ro|la|adjunctus}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj}}

# [[deputy]]

====Declension====
{{ro-decl-adj}}