==English==

===Noun===
'''aegides''' {{p}}

# {{plural of|[[aegis#English|aegis]]}}
#* '''1837''': American Biblical Repository, ''The Biblical Repository and Classical Review'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=L5I3AAAAMAAJ&pg=RA1-PA49&dq=aegides p49]
#*: “The robe and '''''aegides''''' of the statues of Minerva the Greeks have made in imitation of the Lybians, for except that the robe among the Lybians is of leather and the fringes of the ''aegis''§ are not serpents but strips of leather, the adorning is entirely the same. And the very name is an acknowledgement that the vesture of the palladium is derived from Lybia, for the Lybian women put around the robe their goat skins tasselled and stained with madder ({{polytonic|ἐρευθεδάνω}}) and from these goat skins, ({{polytonic|ἐχ δὲ τῶν αἰγἑων τουτἑων}}) the Greeks have taken the word aegis.”
#* '''1931''': John Garrow Duncan, ''Digging Up Biblical History: Recent Archæology in Palestine and Its Bearing on the Old Testament'', p235
#*: The outside string is balls of carnelian. The centre figure is Hathor in ivory. Beneath it is a necklace of “blue-glaze '''aegides''' of…
#* '''1955''': South African Association for the Advancement of Science, ''South African Journal of Science'', p239
#*: …metal face-masks that are occasionally worn as plastrons by suncult kings in Africa. Wainwright remarks that similar things have been called '''''aegides'''''.<sup>1</sup>
#* '''1958''': University of Pennsylvania University Museum, ''University Museum Bulletin'', p32
#*: We normally do not attempt to record in the Bulletin those publications of the staff which appear under other '''aegides''', but this is of such general interest…
#* '''1968''': Bernice Giduz Schubert, ''Journal of the Arnold Arboretum'', p352
#*: Two years later at the age of 40 he began his many collecting trips to the Southwest under the '''aegides''' of both the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Arnold Arboretum.
#* '''1972''': William Ridgeway, ''The Origin of Tragedy: With Special Reference to the Greek Tragedians'', chapter Ⅱ — ''The Rise of Attic Tragedy'', p90<sup>{1} & {2}</sup>
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>Herodotus<sup>1</sup> compared the goat-skin dresses {{i|<b>aegides</b>}} of the Libyan women in his own day to the ''aegis'' of Athena, the only difference being that whilst the former had leathern fringes, that of the goddess had one of snakes.
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>Such '''''aegides''''' were still worn by the Lycians serving in the host of Xerxes, who according to Herodotus were emigrants from Crete.
#* '''1972''': Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (London, England), ''The Journal of Hellenic Studies'', p239
#*: …are practically identical and both the '''aegides''' are fringed with little serpents in exactly the same way.
#* '''2001''': Michael Lackner, Iwo Amelung, and Joachim Kurtz, ''New Terms for New Ideas: Western Knowledge and Lexical Change in Late Imperial China'', p41
#*: A fragmentary law of Lycurgus that aims to refurbish various Athenian cults mentions ‘fifty '''''aegides'''''’ (''IG'' 2<sup>2</sup> 333+ = C.J. Schwenk, ''Athens in the Age of Alexander'' [Chicago: Ares, 1985] 21, line 11).

[[ar:aegides]]