==English==
{{rank|again|also|away|147|against|though|get|eyes}}

===Etymology===
Formed from {{term|again}} + genitive singular ending {{term||-es}}; the '''T''' was added later, at the end of the 14th century, probably by confusion with the superlative ending {{term|-est}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˈgɛnst/|/əˈgeɪnst/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"gEnst/|/@"geInst/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˈgɛnst/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"gEnst/}}
* {{audio|en-us-against.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|a|gainst}}

===Preposition===
{{infl|en|preposition}}

# In a [[contrary]] [[direction]] to.
#: ''If you swim '''against''' the current, you'll work a lot harder.''
# [[close|Close]] to.
# In [[front]] of.
#: ''The woman was silhouetted '''against''' the door.''
# In [[contact]] with.
#: ''The puppy rested its head '''against''' its paw.''
# In [[opposition]] to, or in [[collision]] with.
#: ''The rain pounded '''against''' the window.''
# In [[competition]] with.
#: ''The Worms will play '''against''' the Bears this weekend.''
# As [[protection]] from.
#: ''He turned the umbrella '''against''' the wind.''

====Antonyms====
* [[for]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in a contrary direction to}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|proti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vastaan}}, {{t|fi|vastavirtaan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|против|tr=prótiv|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|an aghaidh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|close to}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|напротив|tr=naprótiv|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in front of}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|proti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|edessä}}, {{t-|fi|vasten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|mu choinneimh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in contact with}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|o}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vasten}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in opposition to}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|proti}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vasten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|против|tr=prótiv|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|an aghaidh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in competition with}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|proti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vastaan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|против|tr=prótiv|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|an aghaidh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|as protection from}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|proti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vastaan}}, {{t-|fi|vasten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|an aghaidh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[反對]], [[違反]]
* {{ttbc|Danish}}: [[imod]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[tegen]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[contre]]
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[gegen]]
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: [[ενάντια]] (enántia), [[εναντίον]] (enantíon)
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[ellen]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[lawan]], [[tentang|menentang]], [[kontra]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[contra]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[contro]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[反対]] ([[はんたい]], hantai)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[반대]], [[대]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[dij]], [[dijî]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[contra]]
* {{ttbc|Latvian}}: [[pret]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[imot]], [[mot]]
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[wbrew]] (1), [[o]] (4,5), [[przeciwko]] (6,7), [[przeciw]](6,7)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[contra]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[impotriva]], [[contra]]
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[proti]] (1,6,7)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[contra]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[ప్రతిగా]]
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[karşı]]
* {{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[kol]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Conjunction===
'''against'''

# {{obsolete}} By the time that (something happened); [[before]].
#* '''1749''', Henry Fielding, ''Tom Jones'', Folio Society 1973, p. 6:
#*: He now gave Mrs Deborah positive orders to take the child to her own bed, and to call up a maid-servant to provide it pap, and other things, '''against''' it waked.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English conjunctions]]

[[ar:against]]
[[ca:against]]
[[de:against]]
[[et:against]]
[[el:against]]
[[es:against]]
[[fr:against]]
[[gl:against]]
[[ko:against]]
[[hy:against]]
[[io:against]]
[[it:against]]
[[kk:against]]
[[ku:against]]
[[li:against]]
[[hu:against]]
[[nl:against]]
[[ja:against]]
[[pl:against]]
[[pt:against]]
[[simple:against]]
[[fi:against]]
[[ta:against]]
[[te:against]]
[[vi:against]]
[[tr:against]]
[[uk:against]]