{{see|-age|âge|âgé|äge}}
{{wikipedia|dab=age}}
==English==

{{rank|later|beyond|rose|490|age|nearly|miles|real}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/eɪʤ/}}, {{SAMPA|/eIdZ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-age.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪdʒ}}

===Etymology===
From {{OF.}} {{term|aage|lang=fro}} (French {{term|âge|lang=fr}}), supposedly from {{LL.}} {{term|aetaticum|lang=la}}, from {{L.}} {{term|aetas|lang=la}}, from {{term|aevum||lifetime|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime.
# That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between its beginning and any given time.
#: ''What is the present '''age''' of a man, or of the earth?''
# The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority; state of being old.
# One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.
# Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full personal rights and capacities.
#: ''to come of '''age'''''
#: ''he (or she) is of '''age'''''
# The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested.
#: ''the '''age''' of consent''
#: ''the '''age''' of discretion''
# A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from others.
#: ''the golden '''age'''''
#: ''the '''age''' of Pericles''
# A great period in the history of the Earth.
# A century; the period of one hundred years.
# The people who live at a particular period.
# Hence, a generation.
# A long time.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|whole duration of a being}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|زمن|sc=Arab}}
* Danish: [[levetid]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leeftijd|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|aĝo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|elinikä}}, {{t+|fi|ikä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|âge|m}}
* [[Gujarati]]: [[ઉમર]] (umar)
* Hebrew: [[גיל]] (gyl) {{m}}
* Hindi: [[आयु]] (aayu), [[उमर]] (umr)
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|寿命|tr=jumyō|sc=Jpan}}; {{t+|ja|一生|tr=isshō|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{Khmr|[[អាយុ]]}} {{IPAchar|(āyʊ)}}
* Korean: [[일생]] (ilsaeng); [[수명]] (sumyeong)
* Polish: [[czas]] [[życia]] {{m}}, [[długość]] [[życia]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|viaţă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возраст|m|tr=vózrast|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[aois]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|livslängd|c}}, {{t-|sv|livstid|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ömür}}
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[عمر]]}} (umr) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of the duration of a being or thing between its beginning and any given time}}
* [[Asturian]]: [[edá]] {{m}}
* [[Basque]]: [[aro]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[edat]] {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dob|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|věk|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|alder}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leeftijd|m}}, {{t+|nl|ouderdom|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|aĝo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ikä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|âge|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Alter|n}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ηλικία|f\|sc=Grek}} (ilikía)
* Hebrew: [[גיל]] (gyl) {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kor}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[etate]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|età|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|年齢|tr=nenrei|sc=Jpan}}; {{t+|ja|年|tr=toshi|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{Khmr|[[អាយុ]]}} {{IPAchar|(āyʊ)}}
* Korean: [[연령]] (yeonryeong); [[나이]] (nai)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ته‌مه‌ن|tr=taman|sc=KUchar}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|aetas|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wiek|m}}
* Portuguese: [[idade]], rarely [[edade]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|vârstă|f}}, {{t-|ro|etate|f}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[vegliadetgna]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возраст|m|tr=vózrast|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[aois]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vek|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|edad|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|ålder|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yaş}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|latter part of life}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|stáří|n}}
* Danish: [[alderdom]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ouderdom|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vanhuus}}
* Hebrew: [[זקנה]] (ziqna) {{f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|老齢|tr=rōrei|sc=Jpan}}; {{t|ja|高齢|tr=kōrei|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[노령]] (noreyong); [[고령]] (goryeong)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|starość|f}}
* Russian: [[старость]] {{f}}, [[возраст]] {{m}}, [[года]] {{p}} (literally translates years)
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|ålderdom|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yaşlılık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one of the stages of life}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ikä}}, {{t+|fi|jakso}}
* Hebrew: [[גיל]] (gyl) {{m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wiek|m}}, {{t-|pl|etap|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|perioadă}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возраст|m|tr=vózrast|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vek|m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|ålder|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çağ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|time of life when one attains full person rights}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|myndig}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|täysi-ikäisyys}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|成人|tr=seijin|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|成人する|tr=seijinsuru|sc=Jpan}} (to come of age)
* Korean: [[성년]] (seongnyeon)
* Polish: {{t-|pl|dorosłość|f}}, {{t-|pl|pełnoletniość|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|majorat}}
* Russian: [[совершеннолетие]] (sov'eršennol'étije) {{m}}
* Slovak: [[dospelý vek]] {{m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yetişkin}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested}}
* Finnish: -[[ikä]] ''latter part of a compound''
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возраст|m|tr=vózrast|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: [[zrelý vek]] {{m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|olgunluk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|particular period of time in history}}
* [[Asturian]]: [[edá]] {{m}}
* Chinese: [[时代]] ()
* Czech: {{t+|cs|doba|f}}
* Danish: [[epoke]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|tijdperk|n}}, {{t+|nl|era|f}}, {{t+|nl|tijd|m}}, {{t-|nl|epoch|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aika}}, {{t+|fi|kausi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|âge|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zeit|f}}, {{t+|de|Epoche|f}}, {{t+|de|Periode|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εποχή|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[תקופה]] (tqufa) {{f}}, [[עידן]] (ydan) {{m}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|zaman|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[epocha]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|età}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|時代|tr=jidai|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[시대]], [[時代]] (sidae)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|ده‌ور|tr=|sc=KUchar}}, {{t|ku|سه‌رده‌م|tr=|sc=KUchar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|aetas|m}}
* [[Low Saxon]]: [[tied]]
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|żmien|xs=Maltese}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|epoka|f}}, {{t+|pl|era|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|edade|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|epocă|f}}
* Russian: [[эпоха]] {{f}}, [[эра]] {{f}}, [[время]] {{n}} (often used in its plural form [[времена]]), [[век]] {{m}} (especially to indicate particular century)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[linn#Scottish Gaelic|linn]] {{f}}, [[ùine]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vek|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|edad}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tid|c}}, {{t-|sv|ålder|c}}, {{t+|sv|era|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çağ}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|yr|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|great period in the history of the Earth}}
* Danish: [[tidsalder]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|geologinen kausi}}, {{t+|fi|kausi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|époque|f}}, {{t+|fr|ère|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ära|f}}, {{t+|de|Epoche|f}}
* Hebrew: [[עידן]] (ydan) {{m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[epocha]], [[era]];
* Italian: {{t+|it|epoca|f}}, {{t+|it|era|f}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|era|f|xs=Maltese}}, {{t-|mt|epoka|f|xs=Maltese}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|era|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|época|f}}, {{t+|pt|era|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|epocă|f}}, {{t-|ro|eră|f}}
* Russian: [[эпоха]] {{f}}, [[эра]] {{f}}, [[время]] {{n}} (often used in its plural form [[времена]]), [[век]] {{m}} (especially to indicate particular century)
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vek|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|época|f}}, {{t+|es|era|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|era|c}}, {{t-|sv|ålder|c}}, {{t-|sv|tidsålder|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çağ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|century}}
: ''See [[century]]''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|people who live at a particular period}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|generation}}
: ''See [[generation]]''
* Danish: {{t-|da|generation|c}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|generatie|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|génération|f}}
* German: {{t-|de|Generation|f}}
* Hebrew: [[דור]] (dor) {{m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[generation]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|generazione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|世代|tr=sedai|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[세대]], [[世代]] (sedae)
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|ġenerazzjoni|xs=Maltese}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|pokolenie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|geração|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поколение|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|generaţie|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|generación|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|generation|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|nesil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a long time}}
* Hebrew: [[נצח]] (netzakh) {{m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|veşnicie}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vek|m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|åratal|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[oad]] {{m}} -où (1), [[oadvezh]] {{m}} -ioù, [[hoalad]] {{m}} -où (2)
* {{ttbc|CJKV Characters}}: [[齡]], [[齢]], [[龄]]
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[poko]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[umur]] / [[usia]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|ages|'''[[ageing]]''' ''or ''(US)'' '''[[aging]]'''|aged}}

# {{transitive}} To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to.
#: ''Grief '''ages''' us.''
# {{transitive|figurative}} To postpone an action that would extinguish something, as a debt.
#: ''Money's a little tight right now, let's '''age''' our bills for a week or so.''
# {{transitive|finance|_|jargon}} To categorize by age.
#: ''One his first assignments was to '''age''' the accounts receivable.''
# {{intransitive}} To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age.
#: ''He grew fat as he '''aged'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transitive: cause to grow old}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|oud doen worden}}, {{t-|nl|doen verouderen}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|postarzać}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|îmbătrâni}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[старить]]/[[состарить]] (stárit')/(sotárit')
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|åldra}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: become old}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|stárnout}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|oud worden}}, {{t-|nl|verouderen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vanhentua}}, {{t+|fi|vanheta}}
* German: {{t-|de|alt werden}}, {{t-|de|älter werden}}, {{t+|de|altern}}, {{t-|de|vergreisen}}, {{t-|de|reifen}}
* Hebrew: [[להזדקן]] (le'hizdaqen)
* Japanese: [[年]][[を]][[取る]], [[とし]][[を]][[とる]] (toshi wo toru)
* Korean: [[나이]][[를]][[먹다]] (nai reul meokda)
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|starzeć się}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|îmbătrâni}}
* Russian: [[стареть]]/[[состариться]] (star'ét')/(sostárit's'a)
* Slovak: [[starnúť]], [[zostarnúť]]
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|åldras}}
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|yaşlanmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|latter part of life}} [[dotage]], [[old age]]

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top4|term derived from "age"}}
* [[act one's age]]
* [[age bracket]]
* [[aged]]<!--as in "old" and "being a certain age"-->
* [[ageism]]
* [[age group]]
* [[ageist]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[ageless]]
* [[age limit]]
* [[agelong]]
* [[age of consent]]
* [[age-old]]
* [[ages]]<!--a long time-->
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[ageing]], [[aging]]<!--adjective, noun-->
* [[Bronze Age]]
* [[golden age]]
* [[ice age]]
* [[Industrial Age]]
* [[Iron Age]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[Middle Ages]]
* [[of age]]
* [[silver age]]
* [[Stone Age]]
* [[teenage]], [[teenager]]
* [[under age]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Age by decade]]

[[Category:English three letter words]]
[[Category:Time]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{infl|fr|noun|g=m}}

# [[beam]]
# [[shaft]]

[[ar:age]]
[[zh-min-nan:age]]
[[de:age]]
[[el:age]]
[[es:age]]
[[fa:age]]
[[fr:age]]
[[gl:age]]
[[hy:age]]
[[io:age]]
[[id:age]]
[[it:age]]
[[ku:age]]
[[lt:age]]
[[hu:age]]
[[ml:age]]
[[nl:age]]
[[ja:age]]
[[no:age]]
[[pl:age]]
[[pt:age]]
[[ru:age]]
[[simple:age]]
[[fi:age]]
[[ta:age]]
[[te:age]]
[[th:age]]
[[vi:age]]
[[tr:age]]
[[zh:age]]