{{see|Ah|AH|aah|ahh}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-ah.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑː|-ɑː]]

===Interjection===
'''ah!'''

"Ah" is a general-purpose vocalization that is used as to express the speaker's mood, or feelings, often with regards towards the current topic of conversation. The meaning of the [[utterance]] varies widely depending upon the tone and inflection used to prononunce this word.

# For example, "Ah" can be used to express feelings of relief, relaxation, comfort, confusion, understanding, wonder, awe, disgust, boredom, or polite disagreement. The word can also be used to add drama or emphasis to a sentence, or just to fill space, particularly in music.
Examples:
* ''Ah! I'm so glad that's over!'' (relief)
* ''Ah! This is the life! I'm not moving from this hammock until noon.'' (relaxation)
* ''Ah! That's terrible! I'm so sorry to hear that!'' (comfort)
* ''Ah? What? I don't understand.'' (confusion)
* ''Ah! Now it all makes sense.'' (understanding)
* ''Ah, no! Not again! I hate this sort of thing!'' (disgust)
* ''Ah. That's nice. I'm sorry, I have to go.'' (boredom)
* ''Ah. Well, that's certainly a unique way to look at the issue.'' (disagreement)
* ''Ah, the flowers of spring.'' (emphasis)
* ''ah, ah, ah -- Stayin' alive!'' (a famous musical refrain)

====Translations====
;an expression
* Estonian: [[aa]], ah, [[ee]], [[oi]], [[oo]]

;word to fill space
* Estonian: [[ee]]

;word used for drama
* Estonian: '''ah'''

====Related terms====
* [[oh]]
* [[uh]]
* [[ha]]
* [[aha]]
* [[aah]]

===References===
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|ah}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|ah}}

[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:Units of measure]]

----

==[[Chickasaw]]==

===Adverb===
'''ah'''
# [[yes]].

====Synonyms====
* [[hohmi]]

[[Category:Chickasaw adverbs]]

[[de:ah]]
[[et:ah]]
[[fr:ah]]
[[gl:ah]]
[[io:ah]]
[[it:ah]]
[[csb:ah]]
[[ku:ah]]
[[la:ah]]
[[hu:ah]]
[[ja:ah]]
[[no:ah]]
[[pt:ah]]
[[ru:ah]]
[[sq:ah]]
[[fi:ah]]
[[vi:ah]]
[[tr:ah]]
[[zh:ah]]