{{see|Appendix:Variations of "ai"}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
Onomatopoeia.

====Interjection====
{{en-intj}}

# An expression of [[pity]], [[pain]], [[anguish]] etc.

===Etymology 2===
Originated 1685–95, from Brazilian {{Pg.}} {{term|aï|lang=pt}}, from {{Tupi.}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ɑːɪ/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A type of three-toed sloth, ''[[Bradypus tridactylus]]'', inhabiting forests of southern Venezuela, the Guianas, and northern Brazil.

====References====
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|ai}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|ai}}

[[Category:English two-letter words]]
[[Category:Mammals]]

----

==Albanian==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|sq|pronoun}}

# [[he]]

----

==[[Apalaí]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|apy|noun}}

# [[penis]]

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
*Hyphenation: ai
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:Finnish:-ɑi|-ɑi]]
*{{IPA|[ɑi]}}

===Interjection===
{{fi-int}}

# [[ouch]]!
# [[oh]]!
#:'''''Ai''', se olitkin sinä!'' (Oh, it was you!)

====Synonyms====
*{{sense|ouch}} [[aih]], [[au]], [[auts]].

----

==French==

===Verb===
'''ai'''

# {{form of|First-person singular indicative present|[[avoir]]}}
#:''J''''ai''' un chien.''
#:''I '''have''' a dog.''

[[Category:French first person singular present indicative forms]]

----


==Italian==

===Etymology===
From the preposition {{term|a|lang=it}} + the article {{term|i|lang=it}}.

===Pronunciation===
====Homophones====
*[[hai]]

===Contraction===
{{infl|it|contraction}}

# [[at]] [[the]], [[to]] [[the]] {{i|+ a masculine noun in plural}}.

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=あい}}

# {{ja-def|愛}}  [[love]]

----

==[[Kriol]]==

===Etymology 1===
From {{E.|rop}} {{term|eye}}.

====Noun====
{{infl|rop|noun}}

# [[eye]]
# [[headlight]] of a car
# [[seed]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{E.|rop}} {{term|I}}

====Pronoun====
{{infl|rop|pronoun}}

# [[I]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{E.|rop}} {{term|high}}.

====Adjective====
{{infl|rop|adjective}}

# [[high]], [[tall]]

----

==[[Kuna]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|cuk|noun}}

# [[friend]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|zh-ǎi.ogg|audio}}
*{{IPA|[ ai˨˩˦ ]}}

===Adjective===
{{cmn-adj|p|pin=ǎi|pint=ai3|tas=矮}}

# {{context|label=[[Appendix:HSK list of Mandarin words/Beginning Mandarin|Beginning Mandarin]]}} [[short]] (of [[stature]])
# {{context|label=[[Appendix:HSK list of Mandarin words/Beginning Mandarin|Beginning Mandarin]]}} [[low]]

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|Zh-ài.ogg|audio}}
*{{IPA|[ ai˥˩ ]}}

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|p|pin=ài|pint=ai4|tra=愛|sim=爱}}

# {{context|label=[[Appendix:HSK list of Mandarin words/Beginning Mandarin|Beginning Mandarin]]}} [[love]]

===Verb===
{{cmn-verb|p|pin=ài|pint=ai4|tra=愛|sim=爱}}

# {{context|label=[[Appendix:HSK list of Mandarin words/Beginning Mandarin|Beginning Mandarin]]}} [[love]]
#: ''[[wo]] [[ai]] [[ni]].''  "I '''love''' you."
#: ''[[ni]] '''ai''' [[ta]] [[ma]]?''  "Do you '''love''' her/him?"
# like; be fond of; be keen on
#: ''[[ta]] '''ai''' [[shuohua]].''  "He '''likes''' to talk."
#: ''[[wo]] [[bu]] '''ai''' [[chi]] [[zhurou]].''  "I don't '''like''' to eat pork."

===Usage notes===
*When used for people, ài usually refers to romantic love.  When used like this, older Mandarin speakers often describe the use of this term as overly [[肉麻]] (ròumá, ''adj.'' something that gives you the creeps, disgusting).  For this reason, the word {{zh-ts|喜欢|喜欢}} (xǐhuān, to like) might be used instead.  Using the word xǐhuān literally means ''like'', but when used in a romantic context (especially boyfriend/girlfriend), it actually means love.  However, younger Mandarin speakers seem to have been influenced somewhat by Western culture, and are now using the verb ài much more often than was socially acceptable in the past.

===Pinyin syllable===
'''ai'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of four tones, [[āi]], [[ái]], [[ǎi]], or [[ài]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

===References===
* {{cite book | last = Shao | first = Jingmin (ed.) | authorlink =  | coauthors =  | year = 2000 | title = HSK Dictionary (HSK汉语水平考试词典) | language = Mandarin/English | publisher = Huadong Teachers College Publishers | location = Shanghai | id = ISBN 7561720785}}

[[Category:Mandarin entries with audio links]]
[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==[[Piedmontese]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|pms|noun}}

# [[garlic]]

----

==Pitjantjatjara==

===Interjection===
{{infl|pjt|adverb}}

#[[huh]]
#[[geez]]
#[[what]]
#[[hey]]

====References====
*{{R:Goddard 1992}}
*Ninti Ngapartji

----

==[[Rohingya]]==

===Verb===
{{infl|cit|verb}}

# [[come]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From the {{L.|ro}} {{term|allium|lang=la}} / {{term|alium|lang=la}}.

===Article===
{{infl|ro|article|masculine plural possessive}}

# [[of]]
#:''[[prieteni]] '''ai''' [[lui]] [[sunt]] [[interesanţi]]'' - his friends are interesting.

====See also====
*[[al]] {{qualifier|masculine/neuter singular}}
*[[a]] {{qualifier|feminine singular}}
*[[ale]] {{qualifier|feminine/neuter plural}}

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|gend=m|pl=ai}}

# [[garlic]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-m|pl=ai|def=aiul}}

====Derived terms====
*[[aior]]

====Related terms====
*[[usturoi]]
*[[mujdei]]
*[[ceapă]]

===Verb===
{{infl|ro|verb form}}

# {{ro-form-verb|2s|pres|avea}} you [[have]]
#: '''''Ai''' [[tu]] [[un]] [[prieten]] [[în]] [[România]]?''
#:: Do you have a friend in Romania?
# {{ro-form-verb|2s|sub|avea}}

{{ro-aux|avea|person=2s|tense=c}}

# (you) [[would]]
#: '''''ai''' fi murit dacă îţi spusesem''
#:: you would have died if I'd told you

[[Category:ro:Plants]]

----

==[[Seri]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|sei|noun}}

# his [[father]]

===Preposition===
{{infl|sei|preposition}}

# [[still]] {{i|used with nominalized third person verbs}}

----

==Sranan Tongo==

===Interjection===
{{infl|srn|interjection}}

# [[yes]]

----

==[[Tok Pisin]]==

===Etymology===
From {{E.|tpi}} {{term|eye}}.

===Noun===
{{tpi-noun}}

# [[eye]]
# [[hole]], [[opening]], [[lid]]
# [[tip]]

----

==[[Torres Strait Creole]]==

===Etymology 1===
From {{E.|tcs}} {{term|I}}.

====Pronoun====
{{infl|tcs|pronoun}}

# [[I]] (see also ''[[mi]]'')

===Etymology 2===
From {{E.|tcs}} {{term|eye}}.

====Noun====
{{infl|tcs|noun}}

# [[eye]].

[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]

----

==Vietnamese==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɐːj˦/}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|vi|pronoun}}

# [[who]]
# [[whoever]]
# [[someone]] [[else]]
# [[one#Pronoun|one]]
# {{context|rhetorical}} [[nobody]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==

===Adverb===
{{infl|vo|adverb}}

# [[always]]
# at all times
# [[constantly]] (habitually)
# [[ever]] (always)
# [[habitually]]

====Derived terms====
*[[ai laidio]] (forever)

{{defn|Estonian}}

[[de:ai]]
[[et:ai]]
[[fr:ai]]
[[fy:ai]]
[[gl:ai]]
[[ko:ai]]
[[io:ai]]
[[ie:ai]]
[[iu:ai]]
[[it:ai]]
[[sw:ai]]
[[la:ai]]
[[li:ai]]
[[hu:ai]]
[[nl:ai]]
[[ja:ai]]
[[pl:ai]]
[[pt:ai]]
[[ro:ai]]
[[ru:ai]]
[[sq:ai]]
[[fi:ai]]
[[sv:ai]]
[[vi:ai]]
[[tpi:ai]]
[[uk:ai]]
[[vo:ai]]