{{also|Appendix:Variations of "al"}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
'''al'''

# {{SI-unit-abb2|atto|liter|litre|[[fluid measure]]}}

----

==English==

===Etymology 1===
See {{term|although}}.

====Conjunction====
{{en-con}}

# {{obsolete}} [[although|Although]], [[despite]] the fact that (something).
#* '''14th century''' Geoffrey Chaucer, ''The Canterbury Tales''
#*: And alle acorden as in hire sentence,
#*: '''Al''' be ther in hir tellyng difference.

=====Related terms=====
* [[although]]
* [[albeit]]

===Etymology 2===
From [[Hindi]]<!--''[[āl]]''-->.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# The [[Indian mulberry]], especially as used to make [[dye]].

===References===
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|al}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|al}}
* {{R:WordNet 2003|al}}

===Anagrams===
* [[la#English|la]], [[La#English|La]], [[LA#English|LA]], [[La.#English|La.]], [[lä#English|lä]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Adverb===
{{af-adv}}

# [[already]]

----

==Anglo-Norman==

===Contraction===
{{head|xno|contraction}}

# ''Contraction of'' '''{{l|xno|a}}''' + '''{{l|xno|le}}''' {{gloss|to the}}

----

==Asturian==

===Etymology===
From a contraction of the preposition {{term|a||to|lang=ast}} + masculine singular article {{term|el||the|lang=ast}}.

===Contraction===
{{head|ast|contraction|g=m}}

# [[to]] [[the]]

----

==Breton==

===Article===
{{head|br|article}}

# [[the]]

====See also====
* [[ar#Breton|ar]]
* [[an#Breton|an]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|allr||all|lang=non}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/al/|[al]|lang=da}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|da|pronoun|neuter|alt|plural|alle}}

# [[all]]
# [[any]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{recons|al|lang=odt}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{recons|allaz|lang=gem-pro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɑl|lang=nl}}
* {{IPA|/ɑl/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-al.ogg|Audio}}

===Adverb===
{{head|nl|adverb}}

# [[already]]
#: ''Het is '''al''' [[negen]] uur.'' — It's 9 o'clock already.
# [[yet]]
#: ''Heb je '''al''' een kip gekocht?'' — Have you bought a chicken yet?

====Derived terms====
* [[althans]]
* [[al weer]]
* [[alweer]]

===Conjunction===
{{head|nl|conjunction}}

# [[even]]
#: ''Al zou ik het willen...'' — Even if I wanted to...

====Synonyms====
[[ook al]]

===Determiner===
{{head|nl|determiner|cat2=indefinite determiners}}

# [[all]], [[all of]]
#: ''al het bier'' &mdash; all the beer
#: ''Van Gogh produceerde <b>al</b> zijn werk gedurende een periode van slechts tien jaar.'' &mdash; Van Gogh produced all of his work during a period of only ten years.

====Declension====
{{nl-decl-adj-nc|alle|alles}}

====Related terms====
* [[alles]]

====Derived terms====
* [[algemeen]]
* [[almacht]]
* [[altijd]]
* [[al sinds]]
* [[meestal]]
* [[veelal]]

===Anagrams===
* [[la#Dutch|la]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/al/|lang=eo}}
* {{audio|Eo-al.ogg|Audio}}

===Preposition===
{{eo-prep}}

# [[to]]; [[toward]]
#: Li estas sur sia unua pilgrimo '''al''' Mekko.
#:: ''He is on his first pilgrimage to Mecca''
#: Islamanoj preĝas antaŭantaj '''al''' Mekko plurfoje ĉiutage.
#:: ''Muslims pray facing toward Mecca several times every day.''

{{eo BRO|1}}

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
Contraction of {{term|ale|lang=fr}}, from {{etyl|fr|ht}} {{term|aller|lang=fr}}.

===Verb===
{{head|ht|verb}}

# To [[go]] <!--This language section was created using [[Template:new ht entry]] -->

====Synonyms====
* [[ale]]

----

==Ido==

===Abbreviation===
{{head|io|abbreviation}}

# ''[[a]] [[la]]'' (≡ [[to]] [[the]])

----

==Interlingua==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/al/|lang=ia}}

===Preposition===
{{head|ia|preposition}}

# {{contraction of|[[a]] [[le]]||to the|lang=ia}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
* ''prep'' [[a#Italian|a]] + ''article'' [[il#Italian|il]]

===Contraction===
'''al'''

# [[at]] [[the]], [[to]] [[the]] (''+ a masculine noun in singular'').

===Anagrams===
* [[la#Italian|la]], [[là#Italian|là]]

[[Category:Italian contractions]]

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
{{ku-noun|g=m}}

# [[side]]

===Noun===
{{ku-noun|g=f}}

# [[flag]], [[banner]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|side}} [[alî#Kurdish|alî]], [[la#Kurdish|la]]
* {{sense|flag}} [[ala#Kurdish|ala]]

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Adjective===
{{head|lb|adjective}}

# [[old]]

====Antonyms====
* [[jonk]]

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|dum}} {{term|al|lang=odt}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|dum}} {{recons|allaz|lang=gem-pro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=dum|/al/}}

===Determiner===
{{dum-adj|cat=determiners|cat2=indefinite determiners}}

# [[all]], all of

===Adverb===
{{dum-adv}}

# [[completely]]

===Conjunction===
{{head|dum|conjunction}}

# [[even though]], no matter whether

===Descendants===
* Dutch: {{l|nl|al}}

----

==Middle English==

===Adverb===
{{head|enm|adverb}}

# [[all]] (entirely, completely)

===Determiner===
{{head|enm|determiner}}

# {{l|en|all}}
#* '''1407''', ''[[w:The Testimony of William Thorpe|The Testimony of William Thorpe]]'', pages 40–41
#*: And I seide, “Ser, in his tyme maister Ioon Wiclef was holden of ful many men the grettis clerk that thei knewen lyuynge vpon erthe. And therwith he was named, as I gesse worthili, a passing reuli man and an innocent in '''al''' his lyuynge. And herfore grete men of kunnynge and other also drowen myche to him, and comownede ofte with him. And thei sauouriden so his loore that thei wroten it bisili and enforsiden hem to rulen hem theraftir… Maister Ion Aston taughte and wroot acordingli and ful bisili, where and whanne and to whom he myghte, and he vsid it himsilf, I gesse, right perfyghtli vnto his lyues eende. Also Filip of Repintoun whilis he was a chanoun of Leycetre, Nycol Herforde, dane Geffrey of Pikeringe, monke of Biland and a maistir dyuynyte, and Ioon Purueye, and manye other whiche weren holden rightwise men and prudent, taughten and wroten bisili this forseide lore of Wiclef, and conformeden hem therto. And with alle these men I was ofte homli and I comownede with hem long tyme and fele, and so bifore alle othir men I chees wilfulli to be enformed bi hem and of hem, and speciali of Wiclef himsilf, as of the moost vertuous and goodlich wise man that I herde of owhere either knew. And herfore of Wicleef speciali and of these men I toke the lore whiche I haue taughte and purpose to lyue aftir, if God wole, to my lyues ende.”

----

==Old English==

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|g=n|head=āl}}

# [[fire]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|au}}

===Contraction===
{{head|fro|contraction}}

# contraction of '''[[a]]''' + '''[[le]]''' (to the)

----

==Old High German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/al/|lang=goh}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|goh}} {{recons|allaz|lang=gem-pro}}.

====Adjective====
{{goh-adj}}

# {{l|en|all}}
# {{l|en|every}}, {{l|en|each}}
# {{l|en|whole}}

=====Descendants=====
* Middle High German: {{l|gmh|al}}
** German: {{l|de|all}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|goh}} {{recons|ēlaz|lang=gem-pro}}, whence also {{ang}} {{term|æl|ǣl|lang=ang}}, {{non}} {{term|áll|lang=non}}.

====Noun====
{{goh-noun|g=m|head=āl}}

# [[eel]]

=====Descendants=====
* German: {{l|de|Aal}}

===References===
* Joseph Wright, ''An Old High German Primer''

[[Category:goh:Fish]]

----

==Old Saxon==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|osx}} {{recons|allaz|lang=gem-pro}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|osx|adjective}}

# [[all]]

====Declension====
{{osx-adjdec-base2|title=al|all|al}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|osx}} {{recons|ēlaz|lang=gem-pro}}.  Cognate with Old English {{term|æl|ǣl}}, Dutch {{term|aal}}, Old High German {{term|al|āl|lang=goh}} (German {{term|Aal}}), Old Norse {{term|áll}} (Danish and Swedish {{term|ål}}).

====Noun====
{{osx-noun|head=āl|g=m}}

# [[eel]]

[[Category:osx:Fish]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} {{term|illum|lang=la}}, from {{term|ille|lang=la}}.

===Article===
'''al''' (''masculine/neuter singular possessive article'')

# [[of]]
#: ''[[el]] [[este]] [[un]] [[prieten]] '''al''' [[meu]]'' - he is a friend of mine.

====Related terms====
* [[a]] (''feminine singular'')
* [[ai]] (''masculine plural'')
* [[ale]] (''feminine/neuter plural'')

====See also====
* [[ăla]]
* [[-l]]

[[Category:Romanian articles]]

----

==Saterland Frisian==

===Adverb===
{{head|stq|adverb}}

# [[already]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|al|lang=es}}

===Preposition===
{{head|es|preposition|g=m|g2=s}}

# (''contraction of [[a#Spanish|a]] [[el#Spanish|el]]'') [[at]] [[the]], [[to]] the.

===Conjunction===
{{head|es|conjunction}}

# (''in front of the [[infinitive]] of a verb'') as soon as, when, upon.

[[Category:Spanish contractions]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From [[Old Norse]], compare [[Icelandic]] ''[[elri]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-al.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[alder]] (tree)

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

[[Category:sv:Trees]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} ''āl'' (“red”), from {{etyl|trk-pro|tr}} {{recons|āl|lang=trk-pro}}, {{recons|Āl||red, scarlet|lang=trk-pro}}.

====Adjective====
{{tr-adjective}}

# [[red]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[kızıl]]
* [[kırmızı]]

====Noun====
{{tr-noun|ı|lar}}

# [[red]]

=====Declension=====
{{tr-noun-c|ı|d|pred=-|poss=+}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|trk-pro|tr}} {{recons|Āl|lang=trk-pro}}.

====Noun====
{{head|tr|noun}}

# {{dated|lang=tr}} [[trick]], [[trap]]

===Etymology 3===
See [[almak]].

====Verb====
{{head|tr|verb}}

# {{second-person singular imperative of|almak|lang=tr}} (to take)

[[Category:tr:Colors]]

----

==Venetian==

===Preposition===
{{head|vec|preposition}}

# [[to]] [[the]]
# [[at]] [[the]]

===Article===
{{head|vec|article|g=m|g2=s}}

# [[the]]

----

==Volapük==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|de|vo}} and {{etyl|en|vo}} ''[[all]]''.

===Adjective===
{{head|vo|adjective}}

# [[each]]
# [[every]]

----

==West Frisian==

===Adverb===
{{head|fy|adverb}}

# [[already]]

===Determiner===
{{head|fy|determiner}}

# [[all]]

[[af:al]]
[[ar:al]]
[[ast:al]]
[[az:al]]
[[br:al]]
[[ca:al]]
[[da:al]]
[[de:al]]
[[el:al]]
[[es:al]]
[[eo:al]]
[[fr:al]]
[[gl:al]]
[[ko:al]]
[[io:al]]
[[id:al]]
[[it:al]]
[[ka:al]]
[[ku:al]]
[[ky:al]]
[[la:al]]
[[lb:al]]
[[lt:al]]
[[li:al]]
[[ln:al]]
[[hu:al]]
[[mg:al]]
[[nah:al]]
[[fj:al]]
[[nl:al]]
[[ja:al]]
[[no:al]]
[[oc:al]]
[[uz:al]]
[[pl:al]]
[[pt:al]]
[[ro:al]]
[[ru:al]]
[[sl:al]]
[[fi:al]]
[[sv:al]]
[[ta:al]]
[[tr:al]]
[[tk:al]]
[[vi:al]]
[[vo:al]]
[[wa:al]]
[[zh:al]]