==English==

===Etymology===
From {{OF.}} {{term|a las|lang=fro}} (French {{term|hélas|lang=fr}}), from {{term|a||ah|lang=fro}} + {{term|las|lang=fro}}, from {{L.}} {{term|lassus||weary|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ə'las/}}
* {{audio|en-us-alas.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Interjection===
'''alas'''

# Used to [[express]] [[sorrow]], [[regret]], [[compassion]] or [[grief]].
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Hamlet}} Act 5, Scene 1
#*: '''Alas''', Poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment, that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen? Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must come; make her laugh at that.

====Synonyms====
* [[alack]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exclamation of sorrow, etc.}}
* Albanina: {{t-|sq|bubu|xs=Albanian}}, [[bobo]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[واها|واهًا]]}} (wāhan)
* [[Catalan]]: [[ai las]]
* Chinese: [[唉呀]] (ài yā)
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|helaas}}, {{t|nl|o wee}}, {{t+|nl|jammer}} {{t+|nl|genoeg}}
* Estonian: [[paraku]], [[kahjuks]]
* Finnish: [[voi]] [[kauhistus]], [[kauhea|kauheaa]], [[kuinka]] [[ikävä|ikävää]]
* French: {{t+|fr|hélas}}
* German: [[o weh]], [[leider]], [[ach]]
* Greek: {{t+|el|αλίμονο|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: [[ajjaj]]
* [[Ido]]: [[ve]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|ahimè}}, {{t+|it|purtroppo}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ئاخ]]}}, {{KUchar|[[هاوار]]}}, {{KUchar|[[هه‌ی هاوار]]}}, {{KUchar|[[داخاکه‌م]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|Heu|alt=heu}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|eala|alt=ēalā|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|افسوس|tr=afsus|sc=fa-Arab|xs=Persian}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[och]], [[mo thruaighe]], [[mo chreach]], [[mo sgal]]
* Spanish: [[ay]], [[ay de mí]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English interjections]]

----

==Balinese==

===Noun===
'''alas'''

# [[forest]]

[[Category:Balinese nouns]]

----

==Croatian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|hr|alaša}}
* {{l|hr|halas|hàlas}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|hu|hr}} {{term|halász||fisherman|lang=hu}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|hr|noun|g=m|head=àlās}}

# {{regional|lang=hr}} a [[river]] [[fisherman]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|hr|ribič|rìbīč}} (standard word)

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
From the same {{Ural.|fi}} root *''ala'' as Estonian {{term|all|lang=et}} and Hungarian {{term|alatt|lang=hu}} (the lative singular of {{term|ala-|lang=hu}}).

===Adverb===
{{infl|fi|adverb|comparative|alemmaksi|superlative|alimmaksi}}

# [[down]]
# [[downward]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|down; downward}} [[ylös]]

====Inflection====
{{fi-decl-pron|1s=[[ala-]]|8s=[[alla]]|9s=[[alta]]|10s=[[alle]]|a1s=[[alhaalla]]|a2s=[[alhaalta]]|a3s=[[alhaalle]]|a4s=[[alas]]|a10s=[[ali]]<br/>[[alitse]]|a11s=[[allekkain]]<br/>[[alakkain]]|a12s=[[alatusten]]}}

===Interjection===
{{fi-int}}

# {{context|followed by a nominative}} [[down]] [[with]] {{i|e.g. in demonstrations}}
#: '''''Alas''' rikolliset!''
#:: Down with the criminals!

{{rfc|usage notes are cryptic, move [[alasan]] to own page}}

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
'''alas'''

# [[base]], [[foundation]]
# [[layer]], [[lining]], [[covering]]

====Usage notes====
# '''alas''' [[kaki]]
#* [[shoe]], etc. [[use]]d to [[protect]] the [[bottom]] [[part]] of [[foot]] ([[sole]])

====Synonyms====
* [[dasar]]
* [[basis]]
* [[lapik]]

====Noun====
'''alasan'''

# [[reason]]
# [[excuse]]

[[Category:Indonesian nouns]]

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
'''ālās''' {{f}}

# {{inflection of|ala#Latin|āla|acc|p}}

{{rfc|control my edits}}

[[Category:Latin noun forms]]

----

==Latvian==

===Noun===
'''alas'''

# {{form of|plural nominative, singular genitive and plural accusative|ala|nodot=1}}: [[cave]]

====Declension====
{{lv-noun-d4|al|a}}

[[Category:Latvian noun forms]]

----

==Malay==

===Noun===
'''alas'''

# [[base]], [[framework]], [[layer]], [[pad]], [[foundation]]

[[Category:Malay nouns]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''alas''' {{f|p}}

# {{plural of|ala|lang=Spanish}}

[[el:alas]]
[[fa:alas]]
[[fr:alas]]
[[io:alas]]
[[id:alas]]
[[it:alas]]
[[ku:alas]]
[[hu:alas]]
[[ms:alas]]
[[no:alas]]
[[pt:alas]]
[[ru:alas]]
[[fi:alas]]
[[te:alas]]
[[vi:alas]]
[[tr:alas]]