==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ɔːlˈbiðeɪ/}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-conj}} {{p}}

# {{plural of|[[albeit#English|albeit]]}}
#* '''1963''': International Peace Research Association, ''International Peace Research Newsletter'', vol. 14: 1– 6, [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=MnscAAAAIAAJ&q=albethey&dq=albethey&pgis=1 p38]
#*: Men felt that they were being deliberately excluded, other women felt this was the “separatist élitism” of which the women’s movement is so often accused. When a group of men did join us for a couple of sessions, there was a complete change in dynamic: it was necessary to have a chairperson, and to some of us it became clear yet again, that it is almost impossible to talk about your oppression with the oppressors ('''albethey''' potential or unconscious oppressors).
#* '''1972''': M. Abel of the East Asia Christian Conference, ''The Asian Meaning of Modernization: East Asia Christian Conference Studies'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=bUEtAAAAIAAJ&q=albethey&dq=albethey&pgis=1 p136]
#*: But we would submit that it is going much too far to claim that all secularization arises from biblical influences — '''albethey''' indirect or incognito in many cases.
#* '''1976''': European Centre for Leisure and Education, ''Society and Leisure'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=ORIKAAAAIAAJ&q=albethey&dq=albethey&pgis=1 p97] (The Centre)
#*: When, for example, asked what they favoured most about living in the area, a number of residents mentioned “open spaces” ('''albethey''' vanishing) and “horses” (stabled at a nearby riding school).
#* '''1977''': Gileon Holroyd, ''Studies in Library Management'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=Z6xAAAAAMAAJ&q=albethey&dq=albethey&pgis=1 p97] (Shoe String Pr Inc, ISBN 0208015477)
#*: The absence of any well established union structure can severely inhibit and possibly damage a service standard by virtue of the resultant inaction on behalf of inadequately motivated staff. This will arise whenever there is a situation where the library policy is controlled by non-professionals, '''albethey''' democratically elected laymen, or whenever the library director is involved with policy making: both these factors have already been broached in a quotation above (29).
#* '''1978''': United States Congress House Committee on the Judiciary, ''U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Authorization Extension'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=ua4nAAAAMAAJ&q=albethey&dq=albethey&pgis=1 p241] (U.S. Government Printing Office)
#*: Somehow these immigrant groups melted into the mainstream of American society en masse. The reason is that they came to our cities in large numbers and had opportunities, '''albethey''' unattractive at times, to be employed or go into business and, however, small, improve the lot of their children.
#* '''2004''': Mitchell MacKay, ''Johnny Heartache Or The Songwriters’ Guide To Music City'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=OxYTvc4DxOsC&pg=PA125&dq=albethey&sig=9XZIQ6ftdB4JQm8S45LrXfNuOjQ p125] ([http://www.trafford.com/04-0081 Trafford Publishing]; ISBN 1412022533 (10), ISBN 978-1412022538 (13))
#*: There are a lot of “nice guys” in the Nashville music business, '''albethey''' landlocked in circumstance. Nashville is an island unto itself, governing itself, perpetuating itself with the proceeds garnered, answering to few outsiders, and only to those insiders with history or hits to boast of. It is the Big Tent where egos and talents, integrity and mendacity, success and failure, all mingle for the daily show, for the show <u>must</u> go on, regardless of actors, for the parts are always there to be portrayed.
#* '''2005''': Laurence F. R. Grove, ''Text/Image Mosaics in French Culture: Emblems and Comic Strips'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=zQWmlJPHyeoC&pg=PA108&dq=albethey&sig=APeWy6u_89gg0_EjoEqPvv647_4 p108] ([http://www.ashgate.com/ Ashgate Publishing, Ltd.]; ISBN 0754634884 (10), ISBN 978-0754634881 (13))
#*: …typical early issue of ''Le Journal de Mickey'' from the 1930s,<sup>3</sup> of the six ''‘bandes dessinées’'' <sup>4</sup> four have domestic settings, '''albethey''' American. The strip entitled ''Pim Pam Poum'' (<i>The Katzenjammer Kids</i>), for example, revolves around the rude awakening elderly members of the family receive as a result of a goat being introduced into their bedroom.