==English==

===Etymology===
Ultimately from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*Aþalaberhtaz}}, a compound of {{m|gem-pro|*aþalaz||noble}} + {{m|gem-pro|*berhtaz||bright, famous}}, through {{etyl|ang|en}} ''[[Æþelbeorht]]''. It became popular in 19th century England due to Queen Victoria’s consort, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈælbɚt/|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Germanic}}.
#* '''1862''' [[w:Alfred, Lord Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]], ''The Idylls of the King: Dedication:''
#*: Thou noble Father of her Kings to be - - - / Dear to thy land and ours, a Prince indeed, / Beyond all titles, and a household name, / Hereafter, thro' all times, '''Albert''' the Good.
#* '''1956''' Eddie Condon, Thomas Sugrue: ''We Called it Music: A Generation of Jazz. Peter Davies 1956. page 40:
#*: Helena was not flattered. "'''Albert''' just doesn't appreciate music," she said. They all called me '''Albert''' then. I thought it was a fine name; I like elegance.
#* '''2000''' {{w|Anne Enright}}, ''What Are You Like?'', Random House (2001), ISBN 9780099284345, page 85:
#*: Hogan, Byrne, O'Brien. She stopped at one name. '''Albert''' Delahunty — what Catholic in their right mind would call a child '''Albert'''?
# A constituency in [[Belize]]
# A city in [[Kansas]]
# A rural municipality in [[Manitoba]]
# A town in [[New South Wales]]
# A ghost town in [[Texas]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Albert chain}}
* {{l|en|Prince Albert}}

====Related terms====
* pet forms: [[Al]], [[Bert]], [[Bertie]]
* variants: [[Ethelbert]]
* female given names: [[Alberta]], [[Albertina]], [[Albertine]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|male given name}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَلْبِرْت|m|tr=ʾalbert}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Ալբերտ}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|Alberta}}
* Breton: {{t|br|Alberz}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Albert}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|艾伯特|tr=Àibótè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Albert|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Albert}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Albert}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Alberto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Albert}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Pertti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Albert|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|Alberte}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ალბერტი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Albert|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Άλβέρτος|m}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|Aalipak}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|ʻAlapaki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אַלְבֶּרט|tr=álbert}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Albert}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|Aðalbjartur}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Ailbhe}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Alberto}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|アルバート|tr=Arubāto}}
* Korean: {{t-needed|ko}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|Albertus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Alberts|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Albertas}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Albert}}, {{t|mt|Bertu}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Albert}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|Æþelbeorht}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|آلبرت|tr=âlbert|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Alberto|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Альбе́рт|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Ailbeart}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Alberto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Albert}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|Albert}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|balter}}, {{l|en|labret}}, {{l|en|tabler}}

[[Category:en:Cities]]
[[Category:en:Towns]]
[[Category:en:Belize]]
[[Category:en:Kansas]]
[[Category:en:Manitoba]]
[[Category:en:New South Wales]]
[[Category:en:Texas]]

----

==Czech==
{{wikipedia|lang=cs}}

===Proper noun===
{{cs-proper noun|g=m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=cs}}, cognate to {{l|en|Albert}}.

----

==Danish==

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=da}}, cognate to {{l|en|Albert}}.

====Related terms====
* female given name: [[Alberte]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-Albert.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Proper noun===
{{nl-proper noun|m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=nl}}, cognate to English {{l|en|Albert}}.

====Related terms====
* [[Albrecht]], [[Albertus]], [[Bert]], [[Bertus]], [[Adalbert]], [[Adelbert]], [[Aalbert]], [[Aalbrecht]], [[Alprecht]], [[Alpert]]

----

==Estonian==

===Proper noun===
{{head|et|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=et}}, cognate to the English {{l|en|Albert}}.

----

==Finnish==

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=fi}}.

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|Albert|||a|i=0}}

====Usage notes====
* Mainly used of foreigners, or as a middle name.

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-Paris--Albert.ogg|Audio (Paris)|lang=fr}}

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}, cognate to {{l|en|Albert}}.

====Related terms====
* female given names: [[Alberte]], [[Albertine]]
* rare variant: [[Aubert]]
* pet forms: [[Bébert]], [[Bertin]]

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|tabler}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
Contraction of {{m|de|Adalbert}}, from {{etyl|goh|de}} {{m|goh|adal||noble}} + {{m|goh|beraht||bright}}.

===Proper noun===
{{de-proper noun|m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=de}}.

====Related terms====
* [[Albrecht]], [[Adalbert]], [[Adelbert]], [[Bert]], [[Brecht]], [[Albertus]]

====Descendants====
; Transliterations
* Japanese: [[アルベルト]] (Aruberuto)

----

==Hungarian==
{{wikipedia|lang=hu}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɒlbɛrt/|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|Al|bert|lang=hu}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|hu|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=hu}}.

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-ek|Alber|t|et}}{{hu-pos-etek|Albert|j|jei}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
{{head|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=no}}, cognate to {{l|en|Albert}}.

----

==Slovak==

===Proper noun===
{{sk-proper noun|g=m}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sk}}.

===External links===
* {{R:SDK}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
First recorded in Sweden in 1283. Cognate with German and English {{l|en|Albert}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/alːbært/|lang=sv}}
* {{rhymes|ært|lang=sv}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|sv|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}}.

====Related terms====
* pet form: [[Abbe]]
* female given name: [[Albertina]]

[[ca:Albert]]
[[cs:Albert]]
[[de:Albert]]
[[et:Albert]]
[[el:Albert]]
[[es:Albert]]
[[fr:Albert]]
[[gl:Albert]]
[[ko:Albert]]
[[is:Albert]]
[[it:Albert]]
[[ku:Albert]]
[[la:Albert]]
[[li:Albert]]
[[hu:Albert]]
[[nl:Albert]]
[[no:Albert]]
[[pl:Albert]]
[[ru:Albert]]
[[sr:Albert]]
[[fi:Albert]]
[[sv:Albert]]
[[th:Albert]]
[[tr:Albert]]
[[zh:Albert]]