==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|noun}} {{IPA|/ˈæ.lɔɪ/|/əˈlɔɪ/|lang=en}}
* {{qualifier|verb}} {{IPA|/əˈlɔɪ/|/ˈæ.lɔɪ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-alloy.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɔɪ|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|xno|en}} {{m|fro|alai}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|aloi}}, from {{m|fro|aloiier}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[metal]] that is a combination of two or more [[element]]s, at least one of which is a metal.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} A metal of lesser value, mixed with a metal of greater value.
#: {{ux|en|gold without '''alloy'''}}
#* '''1888''', Arthur Talbot Vanderbilt, ''Gold Not Only in Wales, But Also in Great Britain and Ireland: Facts and Figures'', page 17
#*: Many of these coins are preserved at the British Museum, in London, and at the  Ashmolean Museum, in Oxford, and are all of pure gold, without '''alloy''', and in a  good state of preservation. Boadicea, Queen of the Iceni, is also said to have{{...}}
# An [[admixture]]; something added which [[stain]]s, [[taint]]s etc.
#* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.20:
#*: ''Metrodorus'' said that in sadnesse there is some '''aloy''' of pleasure.
# {{lb|en|figurative}} [[fusion|Fusion]], [[marriage]], [[combination]].
#* '''1986''', ''1987 Year Book''
#*: SETH KITANGE TELEVISION AND RADIO Upheaval at  CBS. {{...}} Bill Moyers, a CBS News commentator and special correspondent,  expressed his dismay in an interview with Newsweek in which he said, “Television news has never been pure. It has always been an '''alloy''' of journalism  and show business.”

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|superalloy}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|metal combined of more elements}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|alliasie}}, {{t|af|allooi}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|aleación|f}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|иретмә|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сплав}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|aliatge|m}}, {{t+|ca|lliga|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|合金|tr=[[héjīn]]}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|slitina|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|legering|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|legering|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|alojo}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|málmbland}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|metalliseos}}, {{t+|fi|lejeerinki}}, {{t|fi|seosmetalli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|alliage|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|aliaxe|m}}, {{t|gl|liga|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Legierung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κράμα|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|סגסוגת|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ötvözet}}
* Indonesian: [[padu|paduan]] [[logam]], {{t+|id|aloi}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lega|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|合金|tr=ごうきん, gōkin}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|sakausējums|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pancalogam}}, {{t|ms|aloi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|co-veain|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|legering|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|legering|f}}
* Oriya: {{t|or|ମିଶ୍ରଧାତୁ|sc=Orya}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آلیاژ|tr=âlyâž|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|stop|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|liga|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|aliaj|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сплав|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|слитина|f}}, {{t|sh|легура|f}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|slitina|f}}, {{t+|sh|legura|f}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|zliatina|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zlitina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aleación|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|legering|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|balahak}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|మిశ్రమలోహం}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|โลหะเจือ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|alaşım}}, {{t+|tr|halita}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|hợp kim}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|laliad}}, {{qualifier|obsolete}} {{t|vo|metalamig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|aloiier||assemble, join}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|alligare||bind to, tie to}}, compound of {{m|la|ad||to}} + {{m|la|ligare||to bind}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[mix]] or combine; often used of metals.
# To [[reduce]] the [[purity]] of by [[mixing]] with a [[less]] [[valuable]] [[substance]].
#: ''to '''alloy''' gold with silver or copper, or silver with copper''
# {{lb|en|figurative}} To [[impair]] or [[debase]] by mixture.
#: ''to '''alloy''' pleasure with misfortunes''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|mix or combine}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сплавям}}, {{t+|bg|смесвам}}, {{t|bg|легирам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|legovat}}, {{t|cs|slévat}} (''imperf. aspect''), {{t+|cs|slít}} (''perf. aspect'')
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|legeren}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|aloji}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|seostaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|legieren}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κραματοποιώ|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|νοθεύω|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|נתך|m|tr=nétekh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ötvöz}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|stapiać}}, {{t|pl|stopić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ligar}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zliať}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|legera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}
* {{Wikisource1911Enc Citation|Alloys}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|Loyal|Yolla|loyal|yallo}}

[[Category:English 2-syllable words]]
[[Category:en:Alloys]]