==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{confix|allo|type|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|zoology|taxonomy}} A designated [[paratype]] of a species (or lower-order taxon) that is the opposite sex of the [[holotype]].
#* '''2007''', Ivana Karanovic, ''Candoninae (Ostracoda) from the Pilbara Region in Western Australia'', Koninklijke Brill, [https://books.google.com.au/books?id=fvTCJOtISO4C&pg=PA182&dq=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjBr-KoodfXAhVJzLwKHV9yCaUQ6AEIigQwWw#v=onepage&q=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&f=false page 182],
#*: The '''allotype''' female has one T2 deformed (fig. 75D), while the other one is normally developed.
# {{lb|en|biochemistry}} A genetically determined variant of the [[amino acid]] sequence of a [[protein]].
#* '''2007''', I. D. Walker, G. Winter, D. J. Worthington, ''Chapter 2: Structural Investigations of Peptides and Proteins: I: Primary Structure and Chemical Modification'', R. C. Sheppard, ''Amino Acids, Peptides and Proteins, Volume 8'', {{w|Chemical Society|The Chemical Society}}, [https://books.google.com.au/books?id=2HAoDwAAQBAJ&pg=PA145&dq=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjBr-KoodfXAhVJzLwKHV9yCaUQ6AEI_gEwJQ#v=onepage&q=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&f=false page 145],
#*: Until recently, different C-region '''allotypes''' were explained by allelic genes which each encoded a different but closely related protein sequence.
# {{lb|en|immunology}} An [[immunoglobulin allotype]]; the [[allele]] of the [[antibody]] chains found in an individual.
#* '''1996''', James W. Goding, ''Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Practice'', Academic Press, 3rd Edition, [https://books.google.com.au/books?id=jPk4ZY4CnQQC&pg=PA102&dq=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjBr-KoodfXAhVJzLwKHV9yCaUQ6AEIQzAF#v=onepage&q=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&f=false page 102],
#*: The products of allelic forms of the same gene are known as '''''allotypes'''''. '''Allotypes''' are now known for all mouse heavy chains (Stall, 1995). There are no known serologically detectable '''allotypes''' of mouse κ chains.
#* '''2007''', Janardan P. Pandey, ''7: Genetics of Immunoglobulins'', Gabriel Virella (editor), ''Medical Immunology'', Informa Healthcare, 6th Edition, [https://books.google.com.au/books?id=mNx4CpEbHz4C&pg=PA77&dq=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjBr-KoodfXAhVJzLwKHV9yCaUQ6AEIMTAC#v=onepage&q=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&f=false page 77],
#*: Since different individuals of the same species may have different '''allotypes''', these determinants can be used as genetic markers.
#*: The most common technique used for '''allotype''' determination is hemagglutination-inhibition.
#* '''2009''', Julius M. Cruse, Robert E. Lewis, ''Illustrated Dictionary of Immunology'', Taylor & Francis (CRC Press), 3rd Edition, [https://books.google.com.au/books?id=X4X8d2SmQB0C&pg=PA32&dq=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjBr-KoodfXAhVJzLwKHV9yCaUQ6AEINjAD#v=onepage&q=%22allotype%22%7C%22allotypes%22&f=false page 32],
#*: '''Allotypes''' were originally defined by antisera that differentiated allelic variants of immunoglobulin (Ig) subclasses. The '''allotype''' is due to the existence of different alleles at the genetic locus that determines the expression of a given determinant.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|allele}}
* {{l|en|holotype}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|immunoglobulin allotype}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|specimen that exemplifies the opposite sex of the holotype}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|alótipo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the allele of the antibody chains found in an individual}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|alótipo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}