==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of or pertaining to [[alpinism]].
#* '''1997''', "[http://www.sktj.pl/epimenides/jaskinie/page03.html From the editors]," ''Jaskinie - The Caves'' (Bulletin of the Caving Commission of Polish Mountaineering Association), no. 7:
#*: The group of Warsaw cavers climbed out of several caves in Poland and of Sistema Cheve using '''alpinist''' techniques.
#* '''2001''', F. J. Sterck and F. Bongers, "Crown development in tropic rain forest trees," ''Journal of Ecology'', vol. 89, no. 1, p. 3:
#*: The crowns of taller individuals could only be studied from neighbouring trees (climbed using spikes or '''alpinist''' ropes).

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{sometimes|capitalized}} A [[mountain]] [[climber]], especially in the European Alps or in [[ranges]] of similar [[ruggedness]] and [[elevation]].
#* '''1885''', "Notes and News," ''Science'', vol. 5, no. 124, p. 512:
#*: The Swiss geologist and '''alpinist''', Horace Bénédict de Saussure, the first to make the ascent of Mont Blanc (Aug. 3, 1787), is to have erected in his honor a statue in the village of Chamounix.
#* '''2000''', Oliver Nicholson, "Constantine's Vision of the Cross," ''Vigiliae Christianae'', vol. 54, no. 3, p. 311:
#*: A cross in the sky could have appeared. . . . The famous '''Alpinist''' Edward Whymper saw a similar effect on the Matterhorn.
# {{sometimes|capitalized}} A [[downhill]] [[skier]] who practises the [[sport]] on high mountains.

====Translations====
{{trans-see|mountain climber|mountaineer}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com}}
* "[http://encarta.msn.com/dictionary_/alpinist.html alpinist]" in ''Encarta® World English Dictionary'' [North American Edition] © & (P)2007 Microsoft Corporation.
* ''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed., 1989.

===Anagrams===
* [[antislip#English|antislip]], [[pintails#English|pintails]], [[tailpins#English|tailpins]], [[tailspin#English|tailspin]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/alpǐnist/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|al|pi|nist}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=alpìnist|r|алпинист|алпѝнист}}

# [[#English|alpinist]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|alpinist|alpinisti
|alpinista|alpinista
|alpinistu|alpinistima
|alpinista|alpiniste
|alpiniste|alpinisti
|alpinistu|alpinistima
|alpinistom|alpinistima
}}

[[da:alpinist]]
[[et:alpinist]]
[[fr:alpinist]]
[[ko:alpinist]]
[[io:alpinist]]
[[hu:alpinist]]
[[mg:alpinist]]
[[nl:alpinist]]
[[pl:alpinist]]
[[ru:alpinist]]
[[sq:alpinist]]
[[tr:alpinist]]
[[tk:alpinist]]
[[vi:alpinist]]