==English==
{{rfv}}
===Alternative forms===
* [[aluminium shower]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|sg=[[aluminum]] [[shower]]}}

# {{idiomatic|aviation}} The [[midair]] [[collision]] of two [[aircraft]].
#* '''1978''' Oct. 9, "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,919842,00.html Nation: Death over San Diego]," ''Time'':
#*: As his screen displayed the falling and fragmenting wreckage of two aircraft that had collided at 2,650 ft. three miles northeast of Lindbergh Field, he muttered, "Jesus Christ, an '''aluminum shower'''."
#* '''1981''', Richard M. Steers, ''Introduction to Organizational Behavior'', ISBN 9780673155986, [http://books.google.ca/books?ei=yC2gTsm4Bsfx0gHv6unkBA&ct=result&id=y5kXAQAAMAAJ&dq=%22aluminum+shower%22+plane+OR+planes+OR+airplane+OR+airplanes+OR+aircraft+-nozzle+-head+-door+-bathroom&q=%22aluminum+shower%22#search_anchor p. 348]:
#*: Certainly one of the most stressful jobs in contemporary society is that of the air traffic controller. . . . This pressure, combined with the ever-present fear of causing a crash or collision (known with studied casualness as an "'''aluminum shower'''"), places controllers under tremendous stress on the job.
#* '''1999''' April 22, [[w:Roger Ebert|Roger Ebert]], "[http://rogerebert.suntimes.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/19990422/REVIEWS/904220301/1023 Pushing Tin]" (film review), ''Chicago Sun Times'' <small>(retrieved 20 Oct 2011)</small>:
#*: John Cusack and Billy Bob Thornton play two air-traffic controllers who are prickly and complex. . . . They use cynicism to protect themselves from the terrors of the job. One guy "has an '''aluminum shower''' in his future".
#* '''2001''', Frisco Rose ''et al.'', "[http://www.eou.edu/scijou/documents/2000journal.pdf#page=32 Avoiding the '''Aluminum Shower''']," ''Eastern Oregon Science Journal'', vol. 16 (Millennium Issue), p. 32:
#*: [W]e must be able to determine when airplanes are too close for comfort.
#*'''2007''' August 26, Nelson D. Schwartz, "It’s Bird Eat Bird in a Cluttered Sky", ''The New York Times'':<sup>[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/26/weekinreview/26schwartz.html]</sup>
#*: But he agrees that corporate jets are increasing the strain on air traffic controllers trying to prevent what’s known in the industry as an “'''aluminum shower''',” a midair collision.