{{also|Appendix:Variations of "am"}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
{{head|mul|symbol}}

# {{SI-unit-abb2|atto|meter|metre|[[length]]}}

----

==English==
{{wikipedia|AM}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|am|lang=enm}}, {{term|em|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|eam|lang=ang}}, {{term|eom||am|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*immi}}, {{term/t|gem-pro|*izmi||am}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*h₁ésmi||I am, I exist}}, a form of the verb {{term/t|gem-pro|*wesaną}}. Cognate with {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|em|lang=non}}, {{term|emi||am|lang=non}}, {{etyl|got|-}} {{term|𐌹𐌼||tr=im|am|lang=got|sc=Goth}}, Ancient Greek {{term|sc=polytonic|εἰμί|tr=eimi|lang=grc}}, Albanian {{term|jam||I am|lang=sq}}, Sanskrit {{term|sc=Deva|अस्मि|tr=ásmi|lang=sa}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-am.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{a|stressed}} {{IPA|/ˈæm/}}
* {{a|unstressed}} {{IPA|/əm/}}
* {{rhymes|æm}}

===Verb===
{{head|en}}

# {{conjugation of|be||1|sg|pres|ind|lang=en}}

====See also====
{{rel-top|forms of be}}
* [[amn't]]
* [[are]]
* [[aren't]]
* [[art]]
* [[be]]
* [[been]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[beest]]
* [[being]]
* [[is]]
* [[was]]
* [[wast]]
* [[were]]
* [[wert]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{alternative spelling of|a.m.|lang=en|nodot=1}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|go|how|long|120|am|way|even|say}}

===Anagrams===
* [[M.A.#English|M.A.]], [[MA#English|MA]], [[ma#English|ma]]

[[Category:English auxiliary verb forms]]
[[Category:English first-person singular forms]]
[[Category:English irregular first-person singular forms]]
[[Category:English two-letter words]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==Angas==

===Etymology===
Related to {{etyl|gek|-}} {{term|ram||water|lang=gek}}.

===Noun===
{{head|anc|noun}}

# [[water]]
# [[rain]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Angas am "1. water, 2. rain" [Ormsby 1914, 314-315] = am "water (to drink of wash with)" [Flk. 1915, 143] = {{...}}

----

==Aromanian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|rup|amu}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|rup}} {{term/t|la|habeō}}. Compare Daco-Romanian {{term|avea|lang=ro}}, {{term|am|lang=ro}}.

===Verb===
{{head|rup|verb}} (''third-person singular present indicative'' '''[[ari]]/[[are]]''', ''past participle'' '''[[avutã]]''')

# I [[have]].
# {{context|auxiliary, with past participles|lang=rup}} I [[have]]...

====Related terms====
* [[aveare]]/[[aveari]]
* [[avur]]

----

==Azeri==
{{az-variant|c=|r=am|a=آم}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|trk-pro|az}} {{term/t|trk-pro|*(i)am||vulva}}.

===Noun===
{{head|az|noun}}

# {{context|vulgar|lang=az}} [[cunt]] (genitalia)

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|De-am.OGG|audio}}

===Contraction===
{{head|de|contraction}} (+ ''adjective ending with '''-en''' + masculine or neuter noun'')

# ''[[an#German|an]] + [[dem#German|dem]]'', on the, at the

====Usage notes====
* This is often used with the superlative of adjective (ending with '''-en''').
*: ''Er spielt am besten.''
*:: ''He plays best.''

----

==Irish==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=ga}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[ɑːmˠ]|[amˠ]}}

===Noun===
{{ga-noun|ama|amanna|g=m}}

# [[time]]

====Declension====
{{ga-decl-m3|a|m|ma|manna}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l/ga|bileog ama}}
* {{l/ga|clár ama}}
* {{l/ga|freangadh ama}}
* {{l/ga|pointe ama}}

===Mutation===
{{ga mut vowel}}

----

==Kofyar==

===Etymology===
Related to {{etyl|gek|-}} {{term|ram||water|lang=gek}}.

===Noun===
{{head|kwl|noun}}

# [[water]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Kfy. am [Ntg. 1967, 1], {{...}}

----

==Lagwan==

===Noun===
{{head|kot|noun}}

# [[water]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Lgn. a̲m [Mch.] = àm (pl.) [Lks.] = ˀàm [Bouny] = ˀàm [Bouny 1975 MS, 5, #58], Bdm. amaii "water", amai "rain" [Talbot 1911, 252] {{...}}

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Contraction===
{{head|lb|contraction}}

# contraction of {{l|lb|an}} + {{l|lb|dem}}; in the

----

==Old Irish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|cel-pro|sga}} {{term/t|cel-pro|*emmi}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sga}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*h₁esmi}}, from {{term/t|ine-pro|*h₁es-}}.

===Verb===
{{head|sga|verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|is||1|s|pres|ind|lang=sga}}

----

==Pero==

===Noun===
{{head|pip|noun}}

# [[water]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Pero âm [Schuh] = ám [Frj. 1985, 18] (BT: Schuh 1984, 214) {{...}}

----

==Pumpokol==

===Noun===
{{head|xpm|noun}}

# [[mother]]

[[Category:xpm:Family]]

----

==Romanian==

===Verb===
{{head|ro|verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|avea||1|s|pres|ind|lang=ro}}
# {{conjugation of|avea||1|s|pres|sub|lang=ro}}
# {{ro-aux|avea|person=1p|tense=comp}}
#: (we) [[have]]
#:: ''[[noi|Noi]] '''am''' [[fost]] [[la]] [[biserică]] [[duminică]]''.
#::: ''We have been to church on Sunday.

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Pronoun===
{{head|gd|pronoun}}

# [[their|Their]].

====Usage notes====
* This form is used before nouns beginning with '''b''', '''f''', '''m''' or '''p'''.

===Article===
{{head|gd|article}}

# [[the|The]].

====Usage notes====
* This form is used in the ''singular nominative'' before ''masculine'' nouns beginning with '''b''', '''f''', '''m''' or '''p'''.

===See also===
* [[a'#Scottish Gaelic|a']]
* [[an#Scottish Gaelic|an]]
* [[an t-#Scottish Gaelic|an t-]]

----

==Sura==

===Etymology===
Related to {{etyl|gek|-}} {{term|ram||water|lang=gek}}.

===Noun===
{{head|sur|noun}}

# [[water]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Sura àm "Wasser, Flüssigkeit" [Jng. 1963, 58], Mpn. àm [Frj. 1991, 3], {{...}}

----

==Tangale==

===Noun===
{{head|tan|noun}}

# [[water]]

===References===
* ''Etymological Dictionary of Egyptian, volume 3: m-'' (2007, ISBN 9789004164123), page 201:
*: {{...}} we should carefully distinguish the following Ch. roots from AA *m-ˀ "water" [GT]:
*: (1) Ch. *h-m "water" [GT]: WCh. *hama [Stl.]: AS *ham (Gmy. *hām) [GT 2004, 153] = *am [Stl. 1977] = *ham [Dlg.] = *ham [Stl. 1987]: {{...}} Tng. am [Jng.], {{...}}

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|trk-pro|tr}} {{term/t|trk-pro|*(i)am||vulva}}.

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|ı|lar}}

# {{context|slang|vulgar|lang=tr}} [[cunt]] (genitalia)

====Declension====
{{tr-decl-noun
|[[am]]|[[amlar]]
|[[amı]]|[[amları]]
|[[ama]]|[[amlara]]
|[[amda]]|[[amlarda]]
|[[amdan]]|[[amlardan]]
|[[amın]]|[[amların]]
}}
{{tr-pos
|[[amım]]|[[amlarım]]
|[[amın]]|[[amların]]
|[[amı]]|[[amları]]
|[[amımız]]|[[amlarımız]]
|[[amınız]]|[[amlarınız]]
|[[amı]]/[[amları]]|[[amları]]
}}

====See also====
* [[amcık]]

[[Category:Turkish swear words]]

----

==Vietnamese==

===Noun===
{{vi-noun}}

# [[small]] [[Buddhist]] [[temple]], [[small]] [[pagoda]], [[hermitage]], [[secluded]] [[hut]], [[cottage]]

{{attention|vi}}

----

==Welsh==

===Preposition===
{{head|cy|preposition}}

# [[for]], [[in exchange for]].
# {{qualifier|time}} [[at#English|at]].
# (''with [[siarad]], [[sôn]], or [[meddwl]]'') [[about]], [[concerning]].

====See also====
; Personal forms
{|class="wikitable"
|-
!
!Singular
!Plural
|-
!First person
|amdana [[i#Welsh|i]]
|amdanon [[ni#Welsh|ni]]
|-
!Second person
|amdanat [[ti#Welsh|ti]]
|amdanoch [[chi#Welsh|chi]]
|-
!Third person
|amdano [[fe#Welsh|fe]] <br /> amdani [[hi#Welsh|hi]]
|amdanyn [[nhw#Welsh|nhw]]
|}

====Usage notes====
Triggers the [[soft mutation]] on the following [[noun]].

----

==Yucatec Maya==

===Noun===
{{yua-noun}}

# [[spider]], [[arachnid]]

[[Category:yua:Arachnids]]

[[af:am]]
[[ast:am]]
[[br:am]]
[[ca:am]]
[[cs:am]]
[[cy:am]]
[[de:am]]
[[et:am]]
[[el:am]]
[[es:am]]
[[eo:am]]
[[eu:am]]
[[fa:am]]
[[fr:am]]
[[ga:am]]
[[gl:am]]
[[ko:am]]
[[hy:am]]
[[io:am]]
[[id:am]]
[[it:am]]
[[kl:am]]
[[kn:am]]
[[kk:am]]
[[ku:am]]
[[lo:am]]
[[la:am]]
[[lt:am]]
[[li:am]]
[[hu:am]]
[[mg:am]]
[[ml:am]]
[[ms:am]]
[[my:am]]
[[nah:am]]
[[fj:am]]
[[nl:am]]
[[ja:am]]
[[no:am]]
[[ps:am]]
[[pl:am]]
[[pt:am]]
[[ru:am]]
[[sm:am]]
[[simple:am]]
[[sl:am]]
[[su:am]]
[[fi:am]]
[[sv:am]]
[[tl:am]]
[[ta:am]]
[[te:am]]
[[th:am]]
[[chr:am]]
[[tr:am]]
[[vi:am]]
[[wo:am]]
[[zh:am]]