{{also|amy|Amý}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Anglicized form of {{der|en|fro|Amee}},
which was both a nickname and a form of the {{der|en|la|-}} name {{m|la|Amata||beloved}}.<ref> Patrick Hanks and Flavia Hodges: A Concise Dictionary of Given Names.Oxford University Press 2001.</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈeɪ.mi/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Back ache-Amy.wav|Audio}}
* {{rhymes|en|eɪmi|s=2}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|s}}

# {{given name|en|female|from=Latin}}
#* '''1886''' Hubert Hall: ''Society in the Elizabethan Age''. Kessinger Publishing, 2003. {{ISBN|0766139743}} page 94:
#*: The Dame Anne Dudley, mentioned in a contemporary record, was Leicester's first wife, the unfortunate '''Amy''' Robsart. It may be noticed, in passing, that the name '''Amy''' - presuming that it occurs in contemporary manuscripts of authority - is an extremely rare one. It is obvious how easily the name ''Aime'' might be read for Anne.
#* '''1975''' Derek Marlowe: ''Nightshade''. Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1975. page 7:
#*: As a child, '''Amy''' could have been drawn by Millais, if he was inclined - the name '''Amy''' is deceptively apt - but though the plumpness remains, not much but some, the ringlets have gone to be replaced by curls of the colour of cinnamon.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1999|author=Susan Butler|author2=Lawrence Butler|title=East to the Dawn: The Life of Amelia Earhart.|isbn=0306808870|page=5
|passage=As '''Amy''' had been baptized Amelia (but always called '''Amy''') after her mother, now her daughter, too, was baptized Amelia.}}
#* '''2012''' {{w|Gillian Flynn}}, ''Gone Girl'', Phoenix (2013), {{ISBN|978-0-7538-2766-6}}, page 249:
#*: When I remained alive, they named me '''Amy''', because it was a regular girl's name, a popular girl's name, a name a thousand other baby girls were given that year, so maybe the gods wouldn't notice this little baby nestled among the others.
# {{surname|en}}.
#* {{quote-journal|en|year=1959|month=October|title=Talking of Trains: Landlord hires a diesel|journal=Trains Illustrated|page=460|text=[...] Mr. John W. '''Amy''', landlord of the "Cross Keys" at Arnold, Nottingham.}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|Aimee}}
* {{l|en|Amata}}
* {{l|en|Amey}}
* {{l|en|Amee}}
* {{l|en|Amie}}
* {{l|en|Amye}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=amy|MYA|May|Mya|Yam|may|mya|yam}}