{{see|Appendix:Variations of 'an'}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}}
** {{IPA|/æn/}}, {{SAMPA|/{n/}}
** {{audio|en-us-an.ogg|Audio (US)}}
**:{{rhymes|æn}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}}
** {{IPA|/ən/}}, {{SAMPA|/@n/}}
** {{audio|en-us-an-unstressed.ogg|Audio (US), unstressed in the phrase "an egg"}}

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}} {{term|an|ān|lang=ang}}.

====Article====
{{infl|en|article}}

# Indefinite article; used when the noun may refer to one of several possibilities. ''An egg'' could be any of several eggs, while ''the egg'' refers to a specific egg (already mentioned or known).

=====Usage notes=====
*{{sense|indefinite article|preposition}} The word {{term|an}} is used before vowel sounds, and {{term|a}} before consonant sounds:
: ''a dog''
: '''''an''' egg''
: '''''an''' hour'' (the ''h'' is not pronounced)
: ''a hog'' (the ''h'' is pronounced)
: ''a yak'' (''y'' is a consonant sound in this word)
: ''a user'' (has /j/ as its initial sound, which is a consonant)
: '''''an''' umbrella'' (has /ʌ/ as its initial sound, which is a vowel)
: ''a woman'' (/w/ is a consonant)
: ''a one'' (has /w/ as its initial sound, which is a consonant)
: '''''an''' onion'' (has /ʌ/ as its initial sound, which is a vowel)

*There is one occasional exception.  The form ''an'' is sometimes used before ''h'' even when the ''h'' is pronounced.  The usual example is ''an historic occasion.''  Though current in some dialects that pronounce the ''h'', this is considered by many to be affected, pedantic or obsolete.

*See also the [[w:article (grammar)|Wikipedia article]] about articles.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|indefinite article}}
*Afrikaans: [['n]]
*Arabic: ''not used''
*[[Aragonese]]: [[un]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}
*[[Breton]]: [[un]] ''(before the letters n, d, t and h)''; [[ul]] ''(before the letter l)''; [[ur]] ''(before other letters)''
*[[Catalan]]: [[un]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[一]] (yī), [[一个]] (yīge)
*[[Cornish]]: ''not used''
*Czech: ''not used''
*Danish: [[en#Danish|en]] {{c}}, [[et#Danish|et]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[een#Dutch|een]]
*Esperanto: ''not translated''
*Fijian: [[e dua na]]
*Finnish: ''not used''
*French: {{t|fr|un|m}}, {{t|fr|une|f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[in#Frisian|in]]
*[[Galician]]: [[um#Galician|um]] {{m}}, [[umha]] {{f}}
*Georgian: ''not used''
*German: [[ein]] {{m}}, [[eine]] {{f}}, ein {{n}}
*Greek, Modern: [[ένας]] {{m}} ''nominative'' (''follow the link for table of inflections'')
*Hebrew: ''not used''
*Hindi: [[एक]]
*[[Huave]]: [[nop]]
*Hungarian: [[egy]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[un]]
*Irish: ''not used''
*Italian: [[un#Italian|un]] {{m}}, [[uno#Italian|uno]] {{m}}, [[una#Italian|una]] {{f}}, [[un']] {{f}} ''before a vowel''
*Japanese: ''not used''
*Korean: ''not used''
*Kurdish: [[yek]], [[-ek]], [[-yek]]
*Latin: ''not used''
*Lithuanian: ''not used''
*[[Manx]]: ''not used''
*Norwegian: [[en#Norwegian|en]] {{m}}, [[ei#Norwegian|ei]] {{f}}, [[et#Norwegian|et]] {{n}}
*[[Novial]]: ''usually not used, otherwise'' [[un]]
*Polish: ''not used''
*Portuguese: [[um]] {{m}}, [[uma]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[un]] {{m}}, [[o#Romanian|o]] {{f}}
*Russian: ''not used''
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: ''not used''
*Slovak: ''not used''
*Spanish: {{t|es|un|m}}, {{t|es|una|f}}
*Swedish: [[en]] {{c}}, [[ett]] {{n}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఒక]]
*Thai: {{THchar|[[หนึ่ง]]}} (nèùng)
*Turkish: [[bir]]<!--"Küçük bir kebap, lütfen!" = "A small kebab, please!"-->
*[[Tz'utujil]]: [[jun]]
*Vietnamese: [[cái]] (''for inanimate objects''), [[con]] (''for animals, people, etc.''), [[cuốn]] (''for books, etc.''), [[người]] (''for people''), [[quả]] (''for fruit')
*[[Võro]]: ''not used''
*Yiddish: [[אַ]], [[אַן]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{ME.}} ''[[#Middle English|an]]''

====Conjunction====
{{en-conj}}

# {{archaic}} [[If]], so long as.
#: '''''An''' it please you, my lord.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|if; so long as}}
*Esperanto: [[se]]
*Fijian: [[e dua na]]
*German: [[so]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[si]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From [[Georgian]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# The first [[letter]] of the [[Georgian]] [[alphabet]].

===Etymology 4===
From the {{OE.}} preposition ''[[an#Old English|an]]''/''[[on#Old English|on]]''.

====Preposition====
{{en-prep}}

# In each; to or for each; [[per]].
#:''I was only going twenty miles '''an''' hour.''

=====Synonyms=====
*[[per]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|in each; to or for each; per}}
*Danish: [[pr.]], [[om]]
*German: [[pro]], [[den]] {{m}}, [[das]] {{n}}, [[die]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Novial: [[po]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{rank|one|so|me|41|an|we|who|said}}

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Georgian derivations]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Noun===
{{infl|crh|noun}}

# [[time]], [[moment]]

====Declension====
{{crh-latin-noun|niñ|ga|nı|da|dan}}

====References====
{{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg|m}}

# A [[year]].

====Synonyms====
*[[année]]

[[Category:fr:Time]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
{{OHG.|de}} ''[[ana]]''.

===Preposition===
{{infl|de|preposition}} (+ ''accusative/dative'')

# [[on]]
# [[by]]
# [[at]]
#: ''Ich hänge das Bild '''an''' die Wand'' : I hang the picture on the wall.
#: ''Das Bild hängt '''an''' der Wand'' : The picture hangs on the wall.
#: ''Schauen Sie '''an''' die Tafel'' : Look at the blackboard.

====Usage notes====
*The preposition "an" is used with accusative case if the verb shows movement from one place to another, whereas it is used with dative case if the verb shows location.

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[ən]}}; between consonants {{IPA|[ə]}}

===Article===
{{infl|ga|article}}

# Form of the [[definite article]].

====Usage notes====
*Used in the following situations:
*:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (attaches '''t-''' to a vowel, e.g. '''an t-[[uisce]]''' 'the water')
*:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[feminine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[bean#Irish|bhean]]''' 'the woman')
*:[[genitive]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[páiste|pháiste]]''' 'of the child')
*:[[dative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] and [[feminine]] (triggers [[eclipsis]], e.g. '''ag an [[cailín|gcailín]]''' 'at the girl')

===Particle===
{{infl|ga|particle|interrogative|}}

# Used to form direct and indirect questions; triggers [[eclipsis]]; takes the [[dependent]] form (when available) of irregular verbs.
#:'''An''' bhfuil tú ag éisteacht? &mdash; ''Are you listening?''
#:Níl a fhios agam '''an''' bhfuil sé anseo &mdash; ''I don't know if/whether he is here''

----

==Japanese==
{{ja-attention|Romaji header should be replaced with POS header|key=p}}

===Romaji===
{{romaji|あん}}

# {{ja-def|案}} [[plan]], [[scheme]]
# {{ja-def|餡}} [[bean paste]]

----

==Latin==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|la|conjunction|interrogative|}}

# Can it be that.

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''an'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of four tones, [[ān]], [[án]], [[ǎn]], or [[àn]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Common {{Ger.|ang}} *{{term||ainaz}}, from {{IE.|ang}} *{{term||oinos}}. Germanic cognates include Old Frisian {{term||ān}}, Old Saxon {{term|en|ēn}} (Dutch {{term|een}}), Old High German {{term|ein}} (German {{term|ein}}), Old Norse {{term|einn}} (Swedish {{term|en}}), Gothic {{term|𐌰𐌹𐌽𐍃}}.  The IE root is also the source of Latin {{term|unus}}, Greek {{term|sc=Grek|οινος|tr=oinos}}, Old Irish {{term|oen}}.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɑːn/}}

===Numeral===
{{infl|ang|numeral|head=ān}}

# {{cardinal|lang=ang}} [[one]]

====Usage notes====
As in modern English, usage doubles as both a numeral and a pronoun.

===Article===
{{infl|ang|article|head=ān}}

# [[a]], [[an]] (indefinite article)

===Adjective===
{{infl|ang|adjective|head=ān}}

# [[lone]]
# [[sole]]

===Derived terms===
*[[angenga|ānġenga]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{L.|ro}} {{term|annus||year}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|gend=m|pl=ani}}

# [[year]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-m|pl=ani|def=anul}}

[[Category:ro:Time]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ən/}}

===Article===
{{infl|gd|article}}

# [[the]]
#: e.g. [[an]] [[taigh]] - [[the]] [[house]]

----

==Torres Strait Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{E.|tcs}} {{term|hand|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|tcs|noun}}

# [[hand]], [[lower arm]]
# [[flipper]]

[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
{{infl|tr|noun}}

# [[moment]]

[[af:an]]
[[ast:an]]
[[de:an]]
[[et:an]]
[[el:an]]
[[es:an]]
[[fr:an]]
[[ga:an]]
[[gl:an]]
[[ko:an]]
[[io:an]]
[[it:an]]
[[sw:an]]
[[ku:an]]
[[la:an]]
[[hu:an]]
[[nl:an]]
[[ja:an]]
[[pl:an]]
[[pt:an]]
[[ru:an]]
[[sq:an]]
[[simple:an]]
[[fi:an]]
[[sv:an]]
[[ta:an]]
[[te:an]]
[[vi:an]]
[[tr:an]]
[[vo:an]]
[[zh:an]]