==English==

{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
{{NL.}} term ''[[anarchia]]'' < {{Gr.}} [[αναρχία]] < [[α-|αν-]] (without), + [[ἀρχός]] (ruler, authority).

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈænərki/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|anarchies|-}}

{{rft|I see only one, perhaps two distinct definitions here, not seven!  The citations given imply there should be only one single definition.}}
# Absence of any form of political authority or [[government]].
# Political disorder and confusion.
# Absence of [[hierarchy]], [[power]] and [[authority]].
# Absence of rules or laws.
# A rejection of imposed morality from any governing body.
# A government without a ruler.
# A society without rules or laws.

====Usage notes====
*As [[w:Anarchism|anarchists]] use it, "anarchy" does not imply chaos or [[anomie]], but rather a harmonious anti-authoritarian society. In fact, anarchist conceptions of such a society (such as those of [[w:Anarcho-syndicalism | anarcho-syndicalists]]) often include a high degree of societal structure.

* The word "anarchy" is, by an overwhelming margin, not used as anarchists use it.

====Quotations====
*'''Absence of government'''
*'''2004''', "As Somalia's new government prepares to return to restore order after years of '''anarchy''', the BBC News website's Joseph Winter reports from Mogadishu on life with no central control.  Somalia is the only country in the world where there is no government." ''[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/4017147.stm Living in Somalia's anarchy]'' BBC News Online

*'''Political disorder or confusion'''
*'''1994''', "The classic description of what has come to be known as the '''Anarchy''' of King Stephen's reign is that provided by the ''Anglo-Saxon Chronicle''.  It saw a weak kingship manifested in the breakdown of public order." &mdash; Lowell King, Edmund King, ''The Anarchy of King Stephen's Reign'' ISBN 0198203640, p. 1
*'''2005''', "The scenes of '''anarchy''' and helplessness following national disaster on the US Gulf coast has provoked a great deal of hand-wringing in the US press." &mdash; ''[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/4208962.stm Press blames anarchy on rescue delays] BBC News Online
*'''2006''', "Mr Perry added: 'Self help remedies must be controlled because they can degenerate into '''anarchy'''.'" &mdash; ''[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/4739946.stm Anarchy warning on protest claim]'', BBC news online

*'''Absence of power or authority'''
*'''1986''', "Nations dwell in perpetual '''anarchy''', for no central authority imposes limits on the pursuit of sovereign interests." &mdash; Kenneth A. Oye, ''Cooperation Under Anarchy'' ISBN 0691022402, p. 1

*'''Absence of rules or laws'''
*'''1968''', "But when anything is brought under the law, the happy '''anarchy''' of simpler times is forfeited, and this seems to be the prospect for constitutionalized science and knowledge." &mdash; James P. Shaver, Harold Berlak, ''Democracy, Pluralism, and the Social Studies; Readings and Commentary'' World Cat. # 165882.

====Translations====
;'''Absence of any form of political authority or government'''.
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[anarkia]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[анархия]] (anárχija) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;'''Political disorder and confusion'''.
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[anarkia]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[анархия]] (anárχija) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[анархия]] (anárkhija) {{f}} {{l}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[anarquía]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[anarchie]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: [[anarki]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[anarkio]], [[anarĥio]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[anarchie]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Anarchie]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[anarchia]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[anarchia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[anarchia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[anarquia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[anarquía]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[anarki]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[anarchic]]
*[[anarchical]]
*[[anarchically]]
*[[anarchist]]

===See also===
*[[anomie]]

[[et:anarchy]]
[[el:anarchy]]
[[fa:anarchy]]
[[fr:anarchy]]
[[gl:anarchy]]
[[hy:anarchy]]
[[io:anarchy]]
[[it:anarchy]]
[[kk:anarchy]]
[[hu:anarchy]]
[[fi:anarchy]]
[[tl:anarchy]]
[[vi:anarchy]]
[[tr:anarchy]]
[[zh:anarchy]]