{{also|-and|AND|ånd|And|and-}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|and|lang=enm}}, {{term|an|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|and|lang=ang}}, {{term|ond|lang=ang}}, {{term|end||and|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|andi||anþi||undi||unþi|and, furthermore|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|h₂énti|facing opposite, near, in front of, before}}. Cognate with Scots {{term|an||and|lang=sco}}, North Frisian {{term|en||and|lang=frr}}, West Frisian {{term|en|lang=fy}}, {{term|in||and|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|en||and|lang=nl}}, German {{term|und||and|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|end||but|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|än||yet, but|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|enn||still, yet|lang=is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}} {{enPR|ănd}} {{IPA|/ænd/}}, {{SAMPA|/{nd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-and.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}} {{enPR|ən(d)}} {{IPA|/ən(d)/|/ɛn/|/n̩/}}, {{SAMPA|/@n(d)/|2=/n=/}}
* {{audio|en-us-ham-and-eggs.ogg|Audio (US) (ham and eggs)}}
* {{rhymes|ænd}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-con}}

# As a coordinating conjunction; expressing two elements to be taken together or in addition to each other.
## Used simply to connect two noun phrases, adjectives or adverbs. {{defdate|from 8th c.}}
##*'''1611''', Authorized (King James) Version, ''Bible'', Genesis I:
##*:In the beginning God created the heaven '''and''' the earth.
##*'''1817''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''Persuasion'':
##*:as for Mrs. Smith, she had claims of various kinds to recommend her quickly '''and''' permanently. 
##*'''2011''', Mark Townsend, ''The Guardian'', 5 Nov 2011:
##*:‘The UKBA has some serious explaining to do if it is routinely carrying out such abusive '''and''' unlawful inspections.’
## Connecting two clauses or sentences. {{defdate|from 8th c.}}
##*'''1991''', {{w|Jung Chang}}, ''Wild Swans'':
##*:When she saw several boys carrying a huge wooden case full of porcelain, she mumbled to Jinming that she was going to have a look, '''and''' left the room.
##*'''2011''', Helena Smith & Tom Kington, ''The Guardian'', 5 Nov 2011:
##*:"Consensus is essential for the country," he said, adding that he was not "tied" to his post '''and''' was willing to step aside.
## Introducing a clause or sentence which follows on in time or consequence from the first. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
##*'''1996''', David Beasley, ''Chocolate for the Poor'':
##*:‘But if you think you can get it, Christian, you're a fool. Set one foot upcountry '''and''' I'll kill you.’
##*'''2004''', Will Buckley, ''The Observer'':, 22 Aug 2004:
##*:One more error '''and''' all the good work she had done on Friday would be for nought.
## Used to connect certain numbers: connecting units when they precede tens (now {{dated}}); connecting tens and units to hundreds, thousands etc. (now chiefly {{UK}}); to connect fractions to wholes. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
##*'''1863''', {{w|Abraham Lincoln}}, ''Gettysburg Address'':
##*:Four score '''and''' seven years ago our fathers brought forth, upon this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that "all men are created equal".
##*'''1906''', {{w|Upton Sinclair}}, ''The Jungle'':
##*:In Chicago these latter were receiving, for the most part, eighteen '''and''' a half cents an hour, and the unions wished to make this the general wage for the next year.
##*'''1956''', {{w|Dodie Smith}}, (title):
##*:The One Hundred '''and''' One Dalmatians.
## {{context|now|_|colloquial|_|or|_|literary}} Used to connect more than two elements together in a chain, sometimes to stress the number of elements.
##*'''1623''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Julius Caesar'', First Folio, II.2:
##*:And these does she apply, for warnings '''and''' portents, / '''And''' euils imminent; and on her knee / Hath begg'd, that I will stay at home to day.
##*'''1939''', Langley, Ryerson & Woolf, ''The Wizard of Oz'' (screenplay):
##*:Lions, '''and''' tigers, '''and''' bears! Oh, my!
## Connecting two identical elements, with implications of continued or infinite repetition. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
##*'''1611''', King James (Authorized) Version, ''Bible'', Psalms CXLV:
##*:I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever '''and''' ever. 
##*'''2011''', Jonathan Watts, ''The Guardian'', 18 Mar 2011:
##*:He was at work in a nearby city when the tsunami struck. ‘As soon as I saw it, I called home. It rang '''and''' rang, but there was no answer.’
## {{context|now|_|regional|_|or|somewhat|_|colloquial}} Used to connect two finite verbs where the second is dependent on the first: ‘[[to]]’. Used especially after {{term|come}}, {{term|go}} and {{term|try}}. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##*'''1817''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''Sanditon'':
##*:Beyond paying her a few charming compliments and amusing her with gay conversation, had he done anything at all to try '''and''' gain her affection?
##*'''1989''', {{w|James Kelman}}, ''A Disaffection'':
##*:Remember '''and''' help yourself to the soup! called Gavin.
## Used to combine numbers in [[addition]]; [[plus]] (with singular or plural verb). {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
##*'''1791''', {{w|James Boswell}}, ''Life of Samuel Johnson'':
##*:‘Nobody attempts to dispute that two '''and''' two make four: but with contests concerning moral truth, human passions are generally mixed [...].’
##*'''1871''', {{w|Lewis Carroll}}, ''Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There'':
##*:‘Can you do Addition?’ the White Queen asked. ‘What's one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one '''and''' one?’
# Used at the end of a list to indicate the last item.
#: ''bread, butter '''and''' cheese''
# Used to join sentences or sentence fragments in [[chronological]] order.
#: ''I mended the chair '''and''' it broke again.
# Used to indicate causation.
#: ''Ask me the definition of “and” again '''and''' I’ll scream.''
# Used to ask for elaboration.
#: A: ''I don't have a key.'' B: '''''And'''...'' A: ''And I need one to get in.''
# {{context|now|_|US|_|dialect}} [[if|If]].
#* '''1485''', Sir Thomas Malory, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book VII:
#*: "Where ys Sir Launcelot?" seyde King Arthure. "'''And''' he were here, he wolde nat grucche to do batayle for you."
#* '''1526''', William Tyndale, trans. ''Bible'', Matthew XIV:
#*: Peter answered, and sayde: master, '''and''' thou be he, bidde me come unto the on the water.

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Usage notes====
{{rel-top|Usage notes}}
<ol><li>Beginning a sentence with {{term|and}} or other coordinating conjunctions is considered incorrect by classical grammarians arguing that a coordinating conjunction at the start of a sentence has nothing to connect, but use of the word in this way is very common. The practice will be found in literature from Anglo-Saxon times onwards, especially as an aid to continuity in narrative and dialogue. The ''OED'' provides examples from the 9<sup>th</sup> century to the 19<sup>th</sup> century, including one from Shakespeare’s ''King John:'' “''Arthur''. Must you with hot Irons, burne out both mine eyes? ''Hubert.'' Young boy, I must. ''Arthur''. And will you? ''Hubert''. And I will.” It is also used for other rhetorical purposes, especially to denote surprise

<blockquote>(O John! and you have seen him! And are you really going?—1884 in ''OED'') </blockquote>

and sometimes just to introduce an improvised afterthought

<blockquote>(I’m going to swim. And don’t you dare watch—G. Butler, 1983)</blockquote>

It is, however, poor style to separate short statements into separate sentences when no special effect is needed: ''I opened the door and I looked into the room'' (not *''I opened the door. And I looked into the room''). Combining sentences or starting with ''in addition'' or ''moreover'' is preferred in formal writing.

<li>{{term|and|And}} is often omitted for contextual effects of various kinds, especially between sequences of descriptive adjectives which can be separated by commas or simply by spaces

<blockquote>(The teeming jerrybuilt dun-coloured traffic-ridden deafening city—Penelope Lively, 1987)</blockquote>

{{term|and all|And all}} is a well-established tag added to the end of a statement, as in

<blockquote>Isn’t it amazing? He has a Ph.D. and all—J. Shute, 1992</blockquote>

With the nominal meaning “also, besides, in addition”, the use has origins in dialect, as can be seen from the material from many regions given in the ''English Dialect Dictionary'' (often written in special ways, e.g., {{term||ano’}}, {{term||an’-all}}, {{term||an’ a’}}). In many of the examples it seems to lack any perceptible lexical meaning and to be just a rhythmical device to eke out a sentence.

<li>{{term|and|And}} also has special uses: to show progression ''(faster '''and''' faster)'', cause and effect ''(do that '''and''' I’ll send you to bed)'', duration ''(they ran '''and''' ran)'', a large number or quantity ''(miles '''and''' miles)'', addition ''(four '''and''' four are eight)'', and purpose (where {{term|and}} replaces {{term|to}}: ''Try '''and''' come tomorrow'').

<li>Another special use, recorded in the ''OED'' from the 16<sup>th</sup> century, is to express “a difference of quality between things of the same name or class”, as in W.S. Gilbert’s lines from the ''Gondoliers'' (1889): “Well, as to that, of course there are kings and kings. When I say I detest kings I mean I detest bad kings”. To this we may add some modern examples:

<blockquote>There are ways to steal and there are ways to steal—''New Yorker,'' 1988</blockquote>

<blockquote>There is homelessness and homelessness. The word has become a shibboleth for opposition politicians and the ‘caring’ media … The sort of homelessness which means despair is quite different from the sort that means adventure—''Times,'' 1991</blockquote></ol>
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|used to connect two similar words or phrases}} [[as well as]], [[together with]], [[in addition to]]
* {{context|informal}} [[&]], [['n']]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Used to connect two similar words, phrases, et cetera}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t+|af|en|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|dhe|xs=Albanian}}
* [[Amharic]]: [[ና]] (nā), [[እና]] (’anā)
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|و|alt=وـ|tr=wa-}}
*: [[Egyptian Arabic]]: {{tø|arz|و|tr=we|sc=Arab}}
*: [[Tunisian Arabic]]: {{tø|aeb|و|tr=u|sc=Arab}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[-ܘ]] (w'-)
*: Hebrew: [[-ו]] (w'-)
* Armenian: {{t|hy|և|tr=yev|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|ու|tr=u|sc=Armn}}
* [[Asturian]]: {{t-|ast|y|xs=Asturian}}
* [[Basque]]: [[eta#Basque|eta]], [[ta#Basque|ta]]
* Belarusian: {{t|be|і|tr=i|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|এবং|tr=ebông|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}, {{t-|bn|আর|tr=ar|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|i}}
* [[Breton]]: [[ha#Breton|ha]], [[hag#Breton|hag]] ''(before a vowel)''
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|и|tr=i|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t-|my|နဲ့|tr=nè.|sc=Mymr|xs=Burmese}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[i]]
* [[Central Atlas Tamazight]]: [[ⴷ]] (d)
* Cherokee: [[ᎠᎴ]] (ale)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|和|tr=hé|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|與|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|与|tr=yǔ|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|及|tr=jí|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|以及|tr=yǐjí|sc=Hani}}
* [[Chuvash]]: [[тата]]
* [[Coptic]]:
*: Bohairic: {{tø|cop|ⲕⲁⲓ|tr=kai}},{{tø|cop|ⲕⲉ|tr=ke}},{{tø|cop|ⲛⲉⲙ|tr=nem}},{{tø|cop|ⲟⲩⲟϩ|tr=woh}}
*: Sahidic: {{tø|cop|ⲕⲁⲓ|tr=skai}},{{tø|cop|ⲕⲉ|tr=ke}},{{tø|cop|ⲙⲛ|tr=mnn}},{{tø|cop|ⲁⲩⲱ|tr=oww}}
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[ha]], [[hag]] (before a vowel)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|i}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|a}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|og}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|en}}
* [[Egyptian]]: usually with out, but you can use  {{tø|egy|𓎛𓈖|tr=ḥn}} or {{tø|egy|𓎛𓂋|tr=ḥr}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kaj|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|ja}},  {{t+|et|ning}}
* Finnish: [[ja#Finnish|ja]], [[sekä]], {{qualifier|dated}} [[ynnä]]; (''in a negative clause'') ''[[:Category:Finnish negation verb forms|negation verb +]]'' [[-kä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|et}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|და|tr=da|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|und}}
* Greek: {{italbrac|[[preconsonantal]]}} {{t+|el|και|tr=ke}}, {{italbrac|prevocalic}} {{t+|el|κι|tr=k'}}, also written [[ϗ]]
* [[Greenlandic]]: {{t-|kl|aamma|xs=Greenlandic}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[ha#Guaraní|ha]]
* [[Hausa]]: [[dà#Hausa|dà]]
* Hawaiian: {{tø|haw|ame}}, {{tø|haw|a}}, {{tø|haw|a me}}
* Hebrew: -{{t+|he|ו|tr=ve-}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|और|tr=aur|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|és}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|og}}
* [[Ido]]: [[e]]
* [[Igbo]]: [[na#Igbo|na]], also [[n'#Igbo|n']] ''(if the next word is a vowel, esp. "a")''
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|dan|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[e#Interlingua|e]] (''rarely:'' [[et]])
* Irish: {{t+|ga|agus|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|e}}, {{t+|it|ed}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|と|tr=to}}, {{t+|ja|かつ|tr=katsu}}, {{t|ja|とか|tr=toka}}, {{t+|ja|や|tr=ya}}, {{t-|ja|そして|tr=soshite}}
* [[Kannada]]: [[ವುತ್ತು]] (vuttu), [[ಹಾಗೂ]] (hāgū)
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|және|tr=jäne|sc=Cyrl|xs=Kazakh}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{t-|km|នឹង|tr=neung|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|와|tr=wa|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|과|tr=gwa|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|그리고|tr=geurigo|sc=Hang}}, {{t|ko|하고|tr=hago|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|û}}, {{t+|ku|herwiha}}, {{t+|ku|hem}}
* [[Lakota]]: [[na#Lakota|na]]
* [[Lao]]: {{t|lo|ແລະ|tr=lë'|sc=Laoo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Latgalian]]: {{tø|ltg|i}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|et}}, {{t+|la|ac}}, {{t+|la|atque}}, {{t+|la|-que}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|un|xs=Latvian}}, {{t|lv|ir}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|ir|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[и]] (i)
* Maltese: {{t+|mt|u|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Manx]]: [[as]]
* Maori: {{t-|mi|me|xs=Maori}}, {{t-|mi|a|xs=Maori}}
* [[Marathi]]: {{t|mr|आणि|tr=āṇi|sc=Deva}}, {{t|mr|व|tr=va|sc=Deva}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|ба|tr=ba|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Nafaanra]]: {{tø|nfr|a}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|dóó}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|og}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|og}}
* [[Novial]]: [[e]]
* [[Ojibwe]]: {{tø|oj|dash}}, {{tø|oj|idash}}, {{tø|oj|gaye}}, {{tø|oj|ge}}, {{tø|oj|miinawaa}}
* [[Okinawan]]: {{tø|ryu|とぅ|tr=tu}}
* [[Old High German]]: [[anti]], [[enti]]
* [[Old Norse]]: [[ok#Old Norse|ok]]
* [[Old Prussian]]: [[be]]
* [[Old Saxon]]: [[anda]], [[endi]]
* [[Ottoman Turkish]]: {{tø|ota|و|tr= ve|sc=ota-Arab}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{t+|ps|او|tr=aw|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|و|tr=o, va|sc=fa-Arab}}
* [[Phoenician]]: {{tø|phn|𐤅|tr=wu|sc=Phnx}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|i}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|e}}
* [[Punjabi]]: {{t|pa|ਅਤੇ|tr=atē|sc=Guru}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|și}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[e]] (''becoming'' [[ed]] ''before a vowel'')
* Russian: {{t+|ru|и|tr=i}}, {{t|ru|да|tr=da|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Samogitian]]: {{tø|sgs|ėr}}, {{tø|sgs|ė}}
* Sanskrit: {{t|sa|च|tr=ca|sc=Deva}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|an}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[agus]]
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|и|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|i}}
* [[Sindhi]]: {{sd-Arab|[[۽]]}} (aee’)
* [[Sinhalese]]: {{t|si|සහ|tr=saha|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|a}}, {{t+|sk|i}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|in}}, {{t-|sl|ter}}, {{t+|sl|pa}}
* Somali: [[iyo]]
* Sorbian:
*: [[Lower Sorbian]]: {{tø|dsb|a}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|y}}, {{t+|es|e}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|na|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|och}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[మరియు]] (mariyu)
* Thai: {{t-|th|และ|tr=lāē}},  {{t+|th|กับ|tr=gàp}}
* [[Tok Pisin]]: [[na#Tok Pisin|na]], [[wantaim]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ve}}, {{t+|tr|ile}}, {{t+|tr|ma}}
* [[Udmurt]]: {{tø|udm|но|tr=no|sc=Cyrl}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|і|xs=Ukrainian}} / {{t-|uk|й|tr=j|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t+|uk|та|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|اور|tr=aur|xs=Urdu}}
* [[Uyghur]]: {{t|ug|ۋە|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|và|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[Vilamovian]]: {{tø|wym|ana}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|e}}
* Welsh: {{italbrac|[[preconsonantal]]}} [[a#Welsh|a]], {{italbrac|prevocalic}} [[ac#Welsh|ac]]
* [[West Frisian]]: [[en#West Frisian|en]]
* [[Xhosa]]: [[na#Xhosa|na]]- / [[ne#Xhosa|ne]]- / [[ni#Xhosa|ni]]- / [[no#Xhosa|no]]- / [[nu#Xhosa|nu]]-
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[ǂʻá]], [[ʻàhn]]
* Yiddish: {{t+|yi|און|tr=un|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Used at the end of a list to indicate the last item}}
* Armenian: [[և]] (yev), [[ու]] (u)
* [[Asturian]]: {{t-|ast|y|xs=Asturian}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t-|eu|eta|xs=Basque}}, {{t-|eu|ta|xs=Basque}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|i}}
* Bulgarian: [[и#Bulgarian|и]] (i)
* [[Catalan]]: [[i#Catalan|i]]
* Cherokee: [[ᎠᎴ]] (ale)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|和|tr=hé|sc=Hani}}
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[ha]], [[hag]] (before a vowel)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|a}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|og}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|en}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kaj|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|ja}}, {{t+|et|ning}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|et}}
* German: {{t+|de|und}}
* Greek: [[και]] (kai)
* Hebrew: -[[ו]] (va-)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|és}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|og}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[e#Interlingua|e]] (''rarely:'' [[et]])
* Irish: {{t+|ga|agus|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: [[e#Italian|e]] (''optionally becoming'' [[ed#Italian|ed]] ''before a vowel for euphony'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[然して]] ([[そして]], soshite)
* [[Khmer]]: {{t-|km|នឹង|tr=neung|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|û}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|et}},  {{t+|la|ac}},  {{t+|la|atque}}
* Maltese: {{t+|mt|u|xs=Maltese}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|ба|tr=ba|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|og}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|og}}
* [[Old Prussian]]: [[be]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[و#Persian|و]]}} (o),{{fa-Arab|[[و#Persian|و]]}} (væ)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|i}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|e}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|și}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|и|tr=i}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[agus]]
* Serbian: {{t+|sr|и|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|i}}
* [[Sindhi]]: {{sd-Arab|[[۽]]}} (aee’)
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|a}}, {{t+|sk|i}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|in}}, {{t-|sl|ter}}, {{t+|sl|pa}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|y}}, {{t+|es|e}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|och}}
* [[Tok Pisin]]: [[na#Tok Pisin|na]]
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|і|xs=Ukrainian}} / {{t-|uk|й|tr=j|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t+|uk|та|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Welsh: {{italbrac|[[preconsonantal]]}} [[a#Welsh|a]], {{italbrac|prevocalic}} [[ac#Welsh|ac]]
* [[West Frisian]]: [[en#West Frisian|en]]
* [[Xhosa]]: [[na#Xhosa|na]]- / [[ne#Xhosa|ne]]- / [[ni#Xhosa|ni]]- / [[no#Xhosa|no]]- / [[nu#Xhosa|nu]]-
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Used to string together sentences or sentence fragments in chronological order}}
* Armenian: [[իսկ]] (isk)
* [[Asturian]]: {{t-|ast|y|xs=Asturian}}
* Cherokee: [[ᎠᎴ]] (ale)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|然後|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|然后|tr=ránhòu|sc=Hani}}
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[ha]], [[hag]] (before a vowel)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|a}}
* French: {{t|fr|et}}, {{t|fr|et puis}}
* German: {{t+|de|und}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|és}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|agus|xs=Irish}}
* Japanese: [[して]] (shite), [[て]] (te)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{t|km|រួចហើយ|tr=ruech haey|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|û}}
* Maltese: {{t+|mt|u|xs=Maltese}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|áádóó}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|og}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|og}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: {{tø|oj|mii dash}}, {{tø|oj|miish}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[و#Persian|و]]}} (o),{{fa-Arab|[[و#Persian|و]]}} (væ)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|а|tr=a}}, {{t+|ru|но|tr=no}} (adversative), {{t+|ru|и|tr=i}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|і|xs=Ukrainian}} / {{t-|uk|й|tr=j|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t+|uk|та|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t+|uk|а|xs=Ukrainian}}
* [[Xhosa]]: [[yaye]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Used to show causation}}
* Cherokee: [[ᎠᎴ]] (ale)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|就|tr=jiù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|a}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|og}}, {{t|nb|så}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|og}}, {{t|nn|så}}
* [[Sindhi]]: {{sd-Arab|[[۽]]}} (aee’)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|jbo}}: [[.e]], [[zi'e]], [[gi'e]]
* {{ttbc|mi}}: [[me]], [[a]], [[hoki]], [[mā]], [[ahā]], [[rāua ko]], [[rātua ko]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|-|the|of|3|and|to|in|I}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ADN#English|ADN]]
* [[dan#English|dan]], [[Dan#English|Dan]], [[Dan.#English|Dan.]], [[DAN#English|DAN]]
* [[DNA#English|DNA]]
* [[nad#English|nad]], [[NAD#English|NAD]]
* [[NDA#English|NDA]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|ǫnd|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|h₂enh₁-ti-|duck|lang=da}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/and/|[anˀ]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|ænder}}

# [[duck]]
# [[canard]] (false or misleading report or story)

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|ænder|ænderne}}

[[Category:da:Birds]]

----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Finno-Ugric|amta|lang=et}}. Cognates include Finnish {{term|antaa|lang=fi}} and Hungarian {{term|ad|lang=hu}}.

===Noun===
{{et-noun (old)}}

# [[gift]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Pronunciation===
{{audio|no-and.ogg|and}}

===Noun===
{{no-noun-irreg|m|g2=f|anda/anden|ender|endene}}

# [[duck]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
{{proto|Germanic|anda|lang=ang}}, probably from {{proto|Indo-European|h₂énti|facing opposite, near, in front of, before|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɑnd/|lang=ang}}

===Conjunction===
{{infl|ang|conjunction}}

# [[and#English|and]]

===Adverb===
{{infl|ang|adverb}}

# [[even]]; [[also]]

----

==Old Frisian==

===Conjunction===
'''and'''

# [[and#English|and]]

[[Category:Old Frisian conjunctions]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|ǫnd|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|anudz|lang=sv}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-and.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=ande|3=ände}}
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# a wild [[duck]]

====See also====
* [[anka]] (''domesticated duck'')

[[af:and]]
[[ar:and]]
[[az:and]]
[[ca:and]]
[[cs:and]]
[[da:and]]
[[de:and]]
[[et:and]]
[[el:and]]
[[es:and]]
[[eo:and]]
[[fa:and]]
[[fr:and]]
[[gl:and]]
[[ko:and]]
[[hy:and]]
[[hr:and]]
[[io:and]]
[[id:and]]
[[it:and]]
[[kk:and]]
[[ku:and]]
[[lo:and]]
[[la:and]]
[[lt:and]]
[[li:and]]
[[hu:and]]
[[ml:and]]
[[ms:and]]
[[my:and]]
[[na:and]]
[[nl:and]]
[[ja:and]]
[[no:and]]
[[nn:and]]
[[oc:and]]
[[pl:and]]
[[pt:and]]
[[ro:and]]
[[ru:and]]
[[sq:and]]
[[simple:and]]
[[sk:and]]
[[sr:and]]
[[fi:and]]
[[sv:and]]
[[ta:and]]
[[te:and]]
[[th:and]]
[[chr:and]]
[[tr:and]]
[[tk:and]]
[[uk:and]]
[[vi:and]]
[[wo:and]]
[[zh:and]]