{{wikipedia|Andrew|lang=en}}
{{wikipedia|Andrew the Apostle|lang=en}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|Ἀνδρέας}}, cognate with {{m|grc|ἀνδρεῖος||manly}}, both from {{m|grc|ἀνήρ||man}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ăn'dro͞o}}, {{IPA|/ˈæn.dɹuː/|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Ancient Greek}}.
#* '''1890''' John Davidson, ''Perfervid: The Career of Ninian Jamieson'', Ward and Downey 1890, page 94:
#*: I like him - I like a man who can be extreme. Depend upon it, Miss Mercer - but what is his first name?" "'''Andrew'''." "A good name, though common - there is a possibility of a sound reputation in '''Andrew''' Morton, especially if he narrows himself down to a point - - -
#* '''1966''' {{w|Ester Wier}}, ''The Barrel'', D. McCay Co. 1966, page 57:
#*: "Well, I'd say he ought to have a Scottish name like '''Andrew''' or Bruce or Sandy...or...Duncan...or Angus or..." He ticked them off on his fingers as they came to mind.
#* '''1985''' [[w:Evan Hunter|Ed McBain]], ''Eight Black Horses'', Simon&Schuster 2003, {{ISBN|074346690X}}, page 138-139:
#*: Lloyd was a piss-ant name. '''Andrew''' was better because '''Andrew''' was one of the twelve apostles, and anybody with a twelve-apostle name was a good guy. If you were reading a book - which Parker rarely did - and you ran across a guy named Luke, Matthew, Thomas, Peter, Paul, James, like that, you knew right off he was supposed to be a good guy. - - - He would have preferred to be called '''Andrew''', which was his true and honorable middle name.
#* '''2015''' {{w|Joyce Carol Oates}}, ''Jack of Spades'', Head of Zeus {{ISBN|9781784970970}} page 104:
#*: "Irina? Call me 'Andy,' please."
#*: "I think that I would rather call you ''''Andrew''''."
#*: This was flattering, somehow. For everyone I knew called me "Andy"―a name comfortable as an old sneaker. There was dignity in "'''Andrew'''," and a kind of depth, complexity. Perhaps I began to fall in love with Irina Kacinzk for seeing more in me than I saw in myself at the time.
# The first [[Apostle]] in the New Testament.
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|John|1|40-41}}
#*: One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was '''Andrew''', Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.
# {{surname|[[patronymic]]|from=given names}}
# A village in [[Alberta]], [[Canada]]
# A city in [[Iowa]]
# An unincorporated community in [[West Virginia]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Andrew County}}
* {{l|en|St Andrews}}

====Related terms====
* {{qualifier|pet forms}}: [[Andy]], [[Dandy]], [[Drew]]
* {{qualifier|feminine form}}: [[Andrea]]
{{rel-top|surnames}}
* {{l|en|Anders}}
* {{l|en|Anderson}}
* {{l|en|Andison}}
* {{l|en|Andre}}
* {{l|en|Andree}}
* {{l|en|Andress}}
* {{l|en|Andrewes}}
* {{l|en|Andrews}}
* {{l|en|Andrus}}
* {{l|en|Dand}}
* {{l|en|Dandie}}
* {{l|en|Dandy}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|Danson}}
* {{l|en|Drew}}
* {{l|en|Drewe}}
* {{l|en|Drews}}
* {{l|en|Enderson}}
* {{l|en|Gillanders}}
* {{l|en|Kendrew}}
* {{l|en|MacAndrew}}
* {{l|en|McAndrew}}
* {{l|en|McAndrews}}
* {{l|en|Tancock}}
* {{l|en|Tandy}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the Apostle}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَنْدَرَاوُس|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Անդրեաս|sc=Armn}}
*: Old Armenian: {{t|xcl|Անդրէաս|sc=Armn}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|Андрэ́й|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|Andrev}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Андре́й|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Andreu|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|安得烈|tr=Āndéliè|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|安德肋|tr=Āndélē|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|安德|tr=Āndé|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Ondřej|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Andreas}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Andreas|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Andreo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|Andreas}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Andreas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|André|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|André|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ანდრია|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Andreas}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Ανδρέας|m}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|ʻAnederea}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אנדראס}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|András}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Aindrias|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Andrea}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|アンデレ|tr=Andere}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|안드레아|tr=Andeurea}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Andreas}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Andrejs|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Andriejus|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Андреј|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Andreays|m}}, {{t|gv|Andreas}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|Ānaru}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|Ándaras}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Andreas}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|اندریاس|tr=Andriyâs|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Andrzej|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|André|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|Andrei}}, {{t|ro|Sfântul Andrei}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Андре́й|m}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|Andria}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|Andra}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Anndra|m}}, {{t|gd|Aindrea|m}}, {{t|gd|Anndrais|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Андрија|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|Andrija|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Antrìa|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Andrej|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Andrêj|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Andrés}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Andreas}}
* Thai: {{t|th|นักบุญอันดรูว์|tr=nák bun androo}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|Андрі́й|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|Anrê}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Andreas}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|male given name}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|Andre}}, {{t|af|André}}, {{t|af|Andries}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَنْدَرَاوُس|m}}, {{t|ar|أَنْدْرُو|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Անդրեաս|sc=Armn}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|Ander}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|Andrev}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Андре́й|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Andreu}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|安德魯|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|安德鲁|tr=Āndélǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Ondřej|m}}, {{t+|cs|Andrej|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Andreas}}, {{t|da|Anders}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Andreas}}, {{t+|nl|Andries}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Andreo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|Andres}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|Andras|m}}, {{t|fo|Andrias|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Antero}}, {{t+|fi|Antti}}
* Flemish: {{t+|nl|André}}
* French: {{t+|fr|André}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|André}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ანდრო|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Andreas}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Ανδρέας|m}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|Annassi}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|ʻAnalū}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אנדריי|m|tr=andréy|sc=Hebr}} {{qualifier|from Russian}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|András}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Andrés}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Aindriú|m}}, {{t|ga|Aindrias|m}}, {{t|ga|Aindréas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Andrea}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|アンドリュー|tr=Andoryū}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|앤드류|tr=Aendeuryu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ແອນດູ|tr=Aeondu}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Andrejs|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Andrius|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Андреј|m}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Indri}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Andreas|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|Ānaru}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|Ándaras}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Andreas}}, {{t+|no|Anders}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Andrzej}}, {{t+|pl|Jędrzej}} {{qualifier|old Polish}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|André}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|Andrei}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|cognate}} {{t+|ru|Андре́й|m}}, {{qualifier|transliteration}} {{t+|ru|Э́ндрю|m}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|Andria}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|Andra}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Anndra|m}}, {{t|gd|Aindrea|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Андрија|m}}, {{t|sh|Андреј|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|Andrija|m}}, {{t|sh|Andrej|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Antrìa|m}}
* Skolt Sami: {{t|sms|Ååntašǩ}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Ondrej}}, {{t|sk|Andrej}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Andrêj|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Andrés}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Anders}}, {{t+|sv|Andreas}}
* Tatar: {{t|tt|Әндри}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|ఆండ్రూ|sc=Telu}}
* Thai: {{t|th|แอนดรูว์|tr=androo}}
* Ukrainian: {{qualifier|cognate}} {{t|uk|Андрі́й|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{qualifier|transliteration}} {{t|uk|Е́ндрю|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Andras|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Guerrero Amuzgo: {{t-check|amu|Nntî}}
* Hindi: {{t-check|hi|ऍन्डरू}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|Andreas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[안드레]](Ahn-d-re)
* Swahili: {{t-check|sw|Andalea}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=adenrw|Darwen|Wander|Warden|drawne|wander|warden|warned}}

[[Category:en:Alberta]]
[[Category:en:Biblical characters]]
[[Category:en:Cities in the United States of America]]
[[Category:en:Individuals]]
[[Category:en:Iowa, USA]]
[[Category:en:Villages]]
[[Category:en:West Virginia, USA]]