==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|Antarctic|an}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|nonstandard}} [[Antarctic]]; of or pertaining to [[Antarctica]].
#: {{syn|en|Antarctic}}
#* '''1859''', ''Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India'', Geological Survey of India, Governor-General of India, page 119
#*: ''...''West '''Antarctican''' part of Gondwanaland are very informative.
#* {{ante|1951}} ''[[w:Modern Review (Calcutta)|The Modern Review]]'', The Modern Review Office (Calcutta), page 383
#*: By studying the modern trends of international affairs it may be very easily understood that the '''Antarctican''' shores are gradually becoming important naval bases.
#* '''1951''' May, ''[[w:Modern Review (Calcutta)|The Modern Review]]'', The Modern Review Office (Calcutta), page 384
#*: This fascinating view of Mendez-Correa may not seem too incredible, as actually the '''Antarctican''' shores might have possessed warm regions<!-- partly fit for-->''...''
#* '''1957''', Kenneth Royston Sealy, ''The Geography of Air Transport'', Hutchinson University Library (publisher), page 93
#*: Nevertheless, the possibility of trans-'''Antarctican''' airways between South America and Australasia seems a much more remote possibility<!--than the analogues of...-->
#* '''1959''', ''Polar Record'', Scott Polar Research Institute, Cambridge University Press, page 858
#*: At various times he was President of the American Polar Society, the Association of American Geographers and the '''Antarctican''' Society.
#* '''1965''', Richard S. Lewis, ''A Continent for Science'', ''The Antarctic Adventure'', Viking press, page 118
#*: Did it belong to South America or to Antarctica? Where was the junction or separation of the Andean and '''Antarctican''' mountain systems?
#* '''1991''', Kathryn Thompson, ''Close Your Eyes and Think of Dublin'', ''Portrait of a Girl'', FC2, {{ISBN|0932511414}}, page 173
#*: ''...''no way to hold on, trapped on an '''antarctican''' icefloat.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2000|author=Monroe W. Strickberger|title=Evolution|publisher=Jones & Bartlett,|isbn=0763710660|page=454
|passage=From South America, marsupials dispersed into an '''Antarctican''' continent that was considerably warmer than at present and, unaccompanied by placentals, reached Australia during the early Eocene, about 50 million years ago.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|of or pertaining to Antarctica|Antarctic}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|fictional|or|hypothetical}} A native of [[Antarctica]].
#* '''1935''', Edison Marshall, ''Dian of the Lost Land'', H. C. Kinsey &amp; Company, Inc., pages 53 and 62
#*: ''...''customs which the '''Antarcticans''' might have. How he wished he had made the trip alone, and need not share with Adam the scientific triumphs to come!
#*: Of course she was—the daughter of Morrison, Hull’s companion who had befriended and protected him against the '''Antarcticans'''.
#* '''1956''', Walter Sullivan, ''Quest for a Continent'', McGraw-Hill, page 273,
#*: Had the US Navy icebreakers been unable to rescue them from the ice in early 1948 her child might have been the first native-born '''Antarctican'''.
#* '''2001''', Kieran Mulvaney, ''At the Ends of the Earth'', ''History of the Polar Regions'', Island Press, {{ISBN|1559639083}}, page 67
#*: <!--...-->Gonneville departed this enchanted land''...''taking with him''...''an “Indian” prince called Essomeric. The land was not, of course, the southern continent, and Essomeric was not an '''Antarctican'''. De Gonneville had probably been to southern Brazil.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2004|author=R. Brooke Lea|author2=Barry H. Cohen|title=Essentials of Statistics for the Social and Behavioral Sciences|publisher=John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc.|isbn=0471480762|page=45
|passage=Recall the exercise at the end of the previous chapter, and imagine that you discover just one '''Antarctican''', and you measure his or her body temperature. If you know the population mean for '''Antarcticans''' (perhaps it is 98.6&deg;F), then you have one piece of information about variability.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2006|author=William L. Fox|title=Driving to Mars|publisher=Shoemaker &amp; Hoard|isbn=1-59376-111-2|page=227
|passage=Part of the reason is that there is an indigenous tradition of consuming seals in the north for subsistence, whereas sealing in the south was done almost exclusively for commercial reasons, there being no native '''Antarcticans'''.}}
# {{lb|en|sometimes|_|humorous}} One who has spent time in Antarctica, especially a scientist or researcher.
#* '''1956''', ''Antarctic'', New Zealand Antarctic Society
#*: ''...''the easy-going good nature and “she’s right, mate,” attitude of the genuine Australian is a simple but practical outlook which could well be copied by many future '''Antarcticans'''.
#* '''1959''', ''The National Geographic Magazine'', National Geographic Society, page 541
#*: We were not the only '''Antarcticans''' flying early this 1958-59 season. Soviet scientists across the icecap were planning an over-snow traverse toward the South Pole and wanted to survey the route by air.
#* '''1965''', Richard S. Lewis, ''A Continent for Science'', ''The Antarctic Adventure'', Viking Press, page 258,
#*: The '''Antarcticans''' sense that life must be asserted here. It cannot draw back before these wastes, but must subdue them if only to demonstrate its viability.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1987|author=Michael Parfit|title=South Light: A Journey to the Last Continent|publisher=Collier Books|isbn=0020236204|page=273
|passage=I’m an '''Antarctican'''; I can sleep on the ground.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2005|author=Jeff Rubin|author2=et al|title=Antarctica|page=81|publisher=Lonely Planet|isbn=1-74059-094-5
|passage=You should also have little trouble finding some glacier ice for your whiskey; many '''Antarcticans''' enjoy sipping their Scotch on very old rocks!}}

====Usage notes====
* The sense of a native is strictly hypothetical or fictional. Antarctica does not have any native peoples or permanent residents, though a few persons have been born on the continent.
* In the sense of a visitor, this term is sometimes placed in quotation marks or treated as a tongue-in-cheek term.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|native of Antarctica}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|antarktislainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English 4-syllable words]]
[[Category:en:Demonyms]]