stephanie was here..... =] 





THA BASE 
enough said.
the official party for al high school games!!!

calling out all high schools.

it goes done each and every friday from 8:00 pm. till you drop

14628 buffalo spdwy & fuqua

$5 for thee ladies & gentle men after 10:00 pm. $6 for the ladies & $7 for the gentlemen.

the one and only dj on the 1s & 2s DJ BIG "C"  ENOUGH SAID..
 on the mic " mr. rico "

if madison wins the football team gets in free, plus cheerleader. special shout outs to shameca

no fighting HPD will be in full effect.




we are located across from the hiram clarke transit center

====Translations====
{{trans-top|earlier in time or order}}
* German: [[früher]], [[vorausgehend]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[antecedente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# any thing that [[precede]]s another thing, especially the [[cause]] of the second thing
# {{in plural}} one's [[ancestor]]s
# {{grammar}} a [[word]], [[phrase]] or [[clause]] referred to by a [[pronoun]]
#: ''In "The policeman asked the boy what he was doing" the phrase "the boy" is the '''antecedent''' of the pronoun "he".''
# {{logic}} The [[conditional]] part of a [[hypothetical]] [[proposition]]

====Related terms====
* [[precedent]]
* {{i|logic}}: [[consequent]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|any thing that precedes another thing}}
* Dutch: [[antecedent]] {{n}}
* French: [[antécédent]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[antecedente]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[föregångare]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one's ancestors}}
* French: [[ascendant]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[antecedentes]] {{m|p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|word, phrase or clause referred to by a pronoun}}
* Finnish: [[korrelaatti]]
* French: [[antécédent]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Bezugswort]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|conditional part of a hypothetical proposition}}
* French: [[antécédent]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[antecedente]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}} : [[antecedanto]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: antecedent
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[antecedente]]
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-antecedent.ogg|audio}}
* antecedent

[[fr:antecedent]]
[[io:antecedent]]
[[nl:antecedent]]
[[ru:antecedent]]
[[ta:antecedent]]
[[te:antecedent]]
[[th:antecedent]]
[[vi:antecedent]]
[[tr:antecedent]]
[[zh:antecedent]]