==English==
{{was wotd|2007|November|11}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|apotheōsis}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|ἀποθέωσις}}, from verb {{m|grc|ἀποθεόω||deify}} (factitive verb formed from {{m|grc|θεός||God}} with intensive prefix {{m|grc|ἀπο-}}) + {{m|grc|-σις||forms noun of action}}. Surface analysis {{confix|apo|theo-|sis|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əˌpɒθ.iːˈəʊ.sɪs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/əˌpɑː.θiˈoʊ.sɪs/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-apotheosis.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|əʊsɪs|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|apotheoses}}

# The fact or action of becoming or making into a [[god]]; [[deification]].
#* '''1986''', SRF Price, ''Rituals and Power'', p. 75:
#*: In Rome itself the official position was clear: the '''apotheosis''' of the emperor took place only after his death; this had to be officially recognized by the Senate, and only then did the emperor become a ''divus'' with an official cult.
#* '''2002''', CE Newlands, ''Statius' Silvae and the Politics of Empire'', p. 176:
#*: As a former mortal who underwent '''apotheosis''', Hercules was important to the emperors.
# [[glorification|Glorification]], [[exaltation]]; crediting someone or something with extraordinary power or status.
#: {{ux|en|The turn of the century saw the '''apotheosis''' of digital technology.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=5
|passage=In the eyes of Mr. Farquhar Fenelon Cooke the '''apotheosis''' of the Celebrity was complete. The people of Asquith were not only willing to attend the house-warming, but had been worked up to the pitch of eagerness. The Celebrity as a matter of course was master of ceremonies.}}
#* '''1974''', Per Lord Hailsham, '''Smedleys Ltd v Breed [1974]2 All ER 21(HL) at 24''':
#*: Thereafter, the caterpillar achieved a sort of posthumous '''apotheosis'''. From local authority to the Dorchester magistrates, from the Dorchester magistrates to a Divisional Court presided over by the Lord Chief Justice of England, from the Lord Chief Justice to the House of Lords, the immolated insect has at length plodded its methodical way to the highest tribunal in the land.
# A [[glorify|glorified]] [[example]] or [[ideal]]; the [[apex]] or pinnacle (of a concept or belief).
#* '''1925''', {{w|William Carlos Williams}}, '{{w|Edgar Allan Poe}}', ''In The American Grain'', 1990, p. 232:
#*: In his despair he had nowhere to turn. It is the very '''apotheosis''' of the place and the time.
# The best moment or highest point in the development of something, for example of a life or career; the apex, culmination, or climax (of a development).
#: {{ux|en|The '''apotheosis''' of her career was her appointment as chairman.}}
# Loosely, release from earthly life, ascension to heaven; [[death]].
#* '''1851''', {{w|Herman Melville}}, ''{{w|Moby-Dick}}'':
#*: Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy ocean-perishing — straight up, leaps thy '''apotheosis'''!
# {{label|en|psychology}} The latent entity that mediates between a person's [[psyche]] and their [[thought]]s. The [[id]], [[ego]] and [[superego]] in Freudian Psychology are examples of this.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|making into a god}} [[deification]]
* {{sense|act of glorification}} [[exaltation]], [[glorification]]
* {{sense|top point}} [[apex]], [[climax]], [[culmination]], [[peak]], [[pinnacle]]
* {{sense|death}} see also: [[death]]

====Related terms====
* [[apotheosize]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|deification; becoming a god}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|обожествяване}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|apotheose}}, {{t|nl|vergoding|f}}, {{t+|nl|verheerlijking|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|apoteoosi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|apothéose|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|apoteose|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Gottwerdung|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הַאֲלָהָה|f|tr=ha'alahá|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|신으로 모심}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|апотеоза|f|tr=apoteóza|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|боготворење|n|tr=bogotvórenje|sc=Cyrl}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apoteose|f}}, {{t+|pt|deificação|f}}, {{t+|pt|endeusamento|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обожествле́ние|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apoteosis|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|apoteos|c}}, {{t+|sv|förgudning|c}}, {{t|sv|förhärligande|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|glorification, exaltation}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|apoteoosi}}
* German: {{t|de|Vergötterung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apoteose|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прославле́ние|n}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|förhärligande|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|glorified example or ideal}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apoteose|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|апофео́з|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|best moment or highest point in the development of something}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|huippu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apoteose|f}}, {{t+|pt|auge|m}}, {{t+|pt|ápice|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|release from earthly life}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вознесе́ние|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|la|apoth.||abbreviation}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|la}} {{m|grc|ἀποθέωσις}}, from verb {{m|grc|ἀποθεόω||deify}} (factitive verb formed from {{m|grc|θεός||God}} with intensive prefix {{m|grc|ἀπο-}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/a.po.tʰeˈoː.sis/|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{la-noun|apotheōsis||apotheōsis|f|third}}

# {{l|en|apotheosis}}, [[deification]]

====Inflection====
{{la-decl-3rd-I|apotheōsis}}

====Descendants====
* French: {{l|fr|apothéose}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|apoteosis}}

[[et:apotheosis]]
[[el:apotheosis]]
[[fr:apotheosis]]
[[ko:apotheosis]]
[[hy:apotheosis]]
[[io:apotheosis]]
[[ku:apotheosis]]
[[ml:apotheosis]]
[[my:apotheosis]]
[[ps:apotheosis]]
[[pl:apotheosis]]
[[ru:apotheosis]]
[[ta:apotheosis]]
[[te:apotheosis]]
[[tr:apotheosis]]
[[vi:apotheosis]]
[[zh:apotheosis]]