==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|arborize}}

===Etymology===
{{der|en|la|arbor||tree}} {{suffix|en||ise}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[develop]] a [[tree]]-like [[appearance]].
#: {{ux|en|The nerve fibre '''arborises''' into multiple branches.}}
#* '''1915''', T. B. Johnston, ''Medical Applied Anatomy,'' London: A. and C. Black, Chapter{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}4,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/medicalappliedan00johnrich/page/4/mode/1up?q=arborising]</sup>
#*: Either in the spinal medulla or in the brain stem the axons end by '''arborising''' round nerve-cells and the impulses which they convey are transferred to these upper neurones.
#* '''1964''', {{w|Arthur Koestler}}, ''{{w|The Act of Creation}},'' New York: Macmillan, Book{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}433,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/actofcreation00koes/page/433/mode/1up?q=arborizing]</sup>
#*: A hierarchy {{...}} is not like a row of organ pipes; it is like a tree, '''arborizing''' downward.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause (something) to develop a tree-like appearance.
#* '''2008''', Jen Weaverling (ed.), ''Creative Flower Gardening,'' Minnetonka, MN: National Home Gardening Club, p.{{nbsp}}128,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/creativeflowerga0000unse/page/128/mode/1up?q=arborize]</sup>
#*: Tall, wide shrubs take up a huge amount of space in a small garden, so remove the lower limbs to provide more space underneath. {{...}} When you “'''arborize'''” the shrub by limbing it up, you’ll discover an elegant, multi-trunked structure {{...}}
#* '''2018''', {{w|Richard Powers}}, ''{{w|The Overstory}},'' New York: Norton,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=_zQsDwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: His seven-year-old brain fires and rewires, building '''arborized''' [[axon]]s, ''[[dendrite]]s,'' those tiny spreading trees.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[penetrate]] or fill (an area) with a tree-like structure.
#* '''1967''', {{w|Christine Brooke-Rose}}, “The Foot” in Susan Williams and Richard Glyn Jones (eds.), ''The Penguin Book of Modern Fantasy by Women,'' London: Penguin, 1996, p.{{nbsp}}187,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/modernfantasybyw00vari_0/page/187/mode/1up?q=arborize]</sup>
#*: The imitation neurones I am composed of agitate their dendrites like mad ganglia that '''arborize''' the system as the cell bodies dance along the axis cylinder within the fibres of the foot that isn’t there {{...}}
#* '''1991''', Donald G. McQuarrie, “Techniques of Resection and Reconstruction for Tongue and Mouth Cancer” in John S. Najarian and John P. Delaney (eds.), ''Progress in Cancer Surgery,'' St.{{nbsp}}Louis: Mosby, p.{{nbsp}}254,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/lumbardiscdiseas0000nash/page/254/mode/1up?q=arborize]</sup>
#*: The vessels penetrate the clavipectoral fascia {{...}}. They then '''arborize''' the underside of the pectoralis major.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|arborization}}

----