==English==

===Etymology===
[[Category:Greek derivations]]
From [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[αρχαικός]]''' (''archaikos'') "old-fashioned", from '''[[αρχαίος]]''' (''archaios'') "from the beginning, antiquated, ancient, old", from '''[[αρχή]]''' (''archê'') "beginning, origin, at first, anew, afresh", from '''[[άρχω]]''' (''archô'') "to be first".

===Adjective===
'''archaic''' (more archaic, most archaic)

#of or characterized by [[antiquity]] or [[archaism]], [[antiquated]], [[primitive]], [[old-fashioned]], as an archaic word or phrase
#*'''1848:''' [[w:James Russel Lowell|James Russel Lowell]], ''The Biglow Papers'' - A person familiar with the dialect of certain portions of Massachusetts will not fail to recognize, in ordinary discourse, many words now noted in English vocabularies as '''archaic''', the greater part of which were in common use about the time of the King James translation of the Bible.  Shakespeare stands less in need of a glossary to most New Englanders than to many a native of the Old Country.
#*'''1887:''' [[w:Barcley V. Head|Barcley V. Head]], ''Historia Numorum A Manual Of Greek Numismatics'' - There is in the best '''archaic''' coin work [of the Greeks] ... a strength and a delicacy which are often wanting in the fully developed art of a later age.
#''(of words or language style):'' no longer in ordinary use, though still used occasionally to give a sense of antiquity. See talk page.
#:'''1898''' ''Brann's compass of words, idioms and phrases harks back to the archaic and reaches forward to the futuristic.''— William Cowper Brann, ''The Complete Works of Brann the Iconoclast, [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=106379045&tag=Brann,+William+Cowper:+The+Complete+Works+of+Brann+the+Iconoclast,+Volume+1,+1898&query=archaic&id=Bra1Ico Volume 1.]''

====Derived terms====
*[[archaically]]

====Related terms====
*[[archeabacteria]]
*[[archaeologist]]
*[[archaeology]]
*[[archaism]]

why do they have a definition for archaic in here. it is not normally used, so I have three words for you: YOU ARE STUPID!!!!! I hope you can see this. i want to have a word with the website designer. iyay opehay ouyay areyay artsmay otay eadray isthay essagemay atthay iyay otewray.

===References===
*{{R:Webster 1913}}
*{{R:Century 1914}}
*{{R:Oxford 1998}}

[[fr:archaic]]
[[io:archaic]]
[[pl:archaic]]
[[ru:archaic]]
[[fi:archaic]]
[[vi:archaic]]