{{also|Argument}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=argument}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|xno|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|argumentum||proof, evidence, token, subject, contents|lang=la}}, from {{term|arguere||to prove, argue}}; see [[argue]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɑːɡjʊmənt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈɑɹɡjumənt/|/ˈɑɹɡjʊmənt/|/ˈɑɹɡjəmənt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-argument.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[fact]] or [[statement]] used to [[support]] a [[proposition]]; <span id="N1">a [[reason]]</span>.
#* Ray
#*: There is {{...}} no more palpable and convincing '''argument''' of the existence of a Deity.
# <span id="N2">A verbal [[dispute]]; a [[quarrel]].</span>
# <span id="N3">A [[process]] of [[reasoning]].</span>
#* John Locke
#*: The '''argument''' is not about things, but names.
# <span id="N4">{{context|philosophy|logic|lang=en}}</span> A [[series]] of [[proposition]]s [[organize]]d so that the [[final]] proposition is a [[conclusion]] which is [[intend]]ed to [[follow]] [[logically]] from the [[preceding]] propositions, which function as [[premise]]s.
#* {{quote-book|year=2001|author=Mark Sainsbury|title=Logical Forms &mdash; An Introduction to Philosophical Logic|edition=2nd|publisher=Blackwell Publishing|chapter=1|section=&sect;8|isbn=978-0-63121-679-7|page=35|passage=&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Consider the [[argument]]:<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'''15''') I am hungry; therefore I am hungry.<br>Intuitively this should count as valid.  But suppose we thought of the components of arguments as sentences, and suppose we imagine the context shifting between the utterance of the premise and the utterance of the conclusion.  Suppose you are hungry and utter the premise, and I am not hungry and utter the conclusion.  Then we would have a true premise and a false conclusion, so the [[argument]] would not be valid.  Clearly we need to avoid such problems, and introducing the notion of a proposition, in the style of this section, is one way of doing so.}}
# <span id="N5">{{context|mathematics|lang=en}} The independent variable of a function.</span>
# <span id="N6">{{context|programming|lang=en}} A [[value]]</span>, or reference to a value, passed to a [[function]]. <!-- call by value v.s. call by reference -->
#* {{quote-web| date = 2011-07-20
    | author = Edwin Mares
    | title = Propositional Functions
    | site = The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
    | url = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2011/entries/propositional-function
    | accessdate = 2012-07-15 }}
#*: In ‘The Critic of Arguments’ (1892), Peirce adopts a notion that is even closer to that of a propositional function. There he develops the concept of the ‘rhema’. He says the rhema is like a relative term, but it is not a term. It contains a copula, that is, when joined to the correct number of [[argument]]s it produces an assertion. For example, ‘__ is bought by __ from __ for __’ is a four-place rhema. Applying it to four objects ''a'', ''b'', ''c'', and ''d'' produces the assertion that ''a'' is bought by ''b'' from ''c'' for ''d'' (ibid. 420).
#: ''Parameters are like labeled fillable blanks used to define a function whereas '''arguments''' are passed to a function when calling it, filling in those blanks.''
# <span id="N7">{{context|programming|lang=en}} A [[parameter]]</span> in a function definition; an [[actual parameter]], as opposed to a [[formal parameter]].
# {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} Any of the [[phrase]]s that bears a [[syntactic]] connection to the [[verb]] of a [[clause]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1988|author=Andrew Radford|title=Transformational grammar: a first course|location=Cambridge, UK|publisher=Cambridge University Press|page=372|chapter=7}}
#*: In numerous works over the past two decades, beginning with the pioneering work of Gruber (1965), Fillmore (1968a), and Jackendoff (1972), it has been argued that each '''Argument''' (i.e. Subject or Complement) of a Predicate bears a particular ''thematic role'' (alias ''theta-role'', or ''&theta;-role'' to its Predicate), and that the set of ''thematic functions'' which '''Arguments''' can fulfil are drawn from a highly restricted, finite, universal set.
# {{context|astronomy|lang=en}} The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends.
#: ''The altitude is the '''argument''' of the refraction.''
# The subject matter of a discourse, writing, or artistic representation; theme or topic; also, an abstract or summary, as of the contents of a book, chapter, poem.
#* Shakespeare
#*: You and love are still my '''argument'''.
#* Jeffrey
#*: the abstract or '''argument''' of the piece
#* Milton
#*: [shields] with boastful '''argument''' portrayed
# Matter for question; business in hand.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Sheathed their swords for lack of '''argument'''.

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|formal parameter in a function definition}} Some authors regard use of "argument" to mean "formal parameter" to be imprecise, preferring that ''argument'' refers only to the value that is used to instantiate the ''parameter'' at runtime, while ''parameter'' refers only to the name in the function definition that will be instantiated.
* Adjectives often used with "argument": valid, invalid, correct, incorrect, right, wrong, strong, weak, convincing, unconvincing, conclusive, inconclusive, fallacious, simple, straightforward, inductive, deductive, logical, illogical, absurd

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|programming value}} [[actual argument]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:argument]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:dispute]]

====Meronyms====
* {{sense|logic}} [[proposition]], [[premise]], [[conclusion]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''argument''}}
* [[ad hominem argument]]
* [[argumentable]]
* [[argumental]]
* [[argumentation]]
* [[argumentative]]
* [[argumentatively]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[argumentativeness]]
* [[argument form]]
* [[argument from design]]
* [[argumentive]]
* [[argumentize]]
* [[argumentless]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[cosmological argument]]
* [[etymological argument]]
* [[ontological argument]]
* [[teleological argument]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms etymologically related to ''argument''}}
* [[arguable]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[argue]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[arguer]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fact or statement used to support a proposition; a reason}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|argument}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|փաստարկ}}, {{t|hy|կռվան}}
* Breton: {{t|br|arguz|m}}, {{t|br|arguzoù|p}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|довод}}, {{t+|bg|аргумент}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|argument|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|argument|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|argumentti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|argument|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Argument|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επιχείρημα|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|טענה|f|tr=t'a'ana|sc=Hebr}}, {{t|he|טיעון|m|tr=t'i'un|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|argomento|m}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|негиз}}, {{t+|ky|негиздөө}}, {{t+|ky|негизделүү}} {{t+|ky|аргумент}}, {{t+|ky|далил}}, {{t+|ky|жүйө}}, {{t+|ky|ыспат}}, {{t+|ky|далилдөө}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|argumentum|n}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|arguments|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|argument|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|argumento|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|argument|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обоснова́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|аргуме́нт|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prepir|m}}, {{t|sl|spor|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|argumento|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|argument|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|delil}}, {{t+|tr|hüccet}}, {{t+|tr|kanıt}}, {{t+|tr|sav}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|lý lẽ}}, {{t+|vi|lí lẽ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|verbal dispute; a quarrel}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վեճ}}, {{t|hy|վիճաբանություն}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|tabut|m}}, {{t+|br|tabutoù|p}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|спор}}, {{t+|bg|дискусия}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|disputa|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hádka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ruzie|f}}, {{t+|nl|betoog|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riita}}, {{t|fi|väittely}}
* French: {{t+|fr|querelle|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Streit|m}}, {{t|de|Streitgespräch}}, {{t+|de|Diskussion|f}}, {{t|de|Streitgespräch|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|καβγάς|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ויכוח|m|tr=vikuakh|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|बिबाद|tr=bibād|sc=Deva}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aighneas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|discussione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|論争|tr=ronsō|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|شه‌ڕه‌قسه‌|tr=shara qisa|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|قڕه‌بڕ|tr=qirabir|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|айтыш}}, {{t+|ky|тартыш}}, {{t+|ky|талаш}}, {{t+|ky|дискуссия}}, {{t+|ky|жыйынтык}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|saadtah}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kłótnia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|discussão|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ceartă|f}}, {{t+|ro|dispută|f}}, {{t+|ro|contraargumentare|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спор|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|connsachadh|m}}, {{t|gd|connspaid|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prepir|m}}, {{t|sl|spor|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|discusión|f}}, {{t+|es|bronca|f}}, {{t+|es|riña|f}}, {{t+|es|pelea|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|argumentation|c}}, {{t+|sv|diskussion|c}}, {{t+|sv|dispyt|c}}, {{t+|sv|gräl|n}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|వాగ్వాదము|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|münakaşa}}, {{t+|tr|tartışma}}, {{t+|tr|savunma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|process of reasoning}}
* Breton: {{t|br|arguzenn|f}}, {{t|br|arguzennoù|p}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|argumentació|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väittely}}, {{t+|fi|perustelu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|argumentation|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Argumentation|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|argomentazione|f}}
* Latin: {{t|la|argumentatio|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|argumentācija|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|argumentacja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|argumentação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аргуме́нт|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|argumentación|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|argumentation|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|akıl yürütme}}, {{t+|tr|ispatlama}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|independent variable}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аргумент}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|όρισμα|n}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|arguments|m}}, {{t|lv|neatkarīgais mainīgais|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|argument|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|argument|n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|argument|n}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|విభేదించు|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|argument}}, {{t+|tr|genlik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|variable that is being passed to a function}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|արգումենտ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аргумент}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|argument|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|argument|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|argument|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|argumentti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|argument|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Argument|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|όρισμα|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ארגומנט|m|tr=argumént|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|argomento}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|引数|tr=hikisū|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|argument|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|argumento|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аргуме́нт|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|argument|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|değişken}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|argumento}}
* Latin: {{t-check|la|argumentum|n}}
* Telugu: {{t+check|te|వాదము|sc=Telu}}
* Volapük: {{t-check|vo|vödafeit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-argument.ogg|audio (Czech Republic)|lang=cs}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|argument]] {{gloss|fact or statement used to support a proposition}}

====Derived terms====
* [[protiargument]]

====Related terms====
* [[argumentace]]

====See also====
* [[parametr]] {{g|m}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{m|la|argūmentum}}, from {{m|la|arguō||prove, argue}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-argument.ogg|audio (France)|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[#Noun|argument]]
#: ''Quels que soient les '''arguments''' que vous avancez, je ne pourrai pas vous croire.''

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----
==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|nb}} {{term|argumentum|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{nb-noun-n3}}

# an {{l|en|argument}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|nb|argumentere}}

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|nn}} {{term|argumentum|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{nn-noun-n1}}

# an {{l|en|argument}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/arɡǔment/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|ar|gu|ment|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=argùment|r|аргумент|аргу̀мент}}

# [[#English|argument]] (fact or statement used to support a proposition)
# {{context|philosophy|logic|mathematics|programming|lang=sh}} [[#English|argument]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun|argument|argumenti
|argumenta|argumenata
|argumentu|argumentima
|argument|argumente
|argumente|argumenti
|argumentu|argumentima
|argumentom|argumentima
}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-argument.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n}}

# an [[#English|argument]]; a reason
# {{context|mathematics|lang=sv}} an argument; an independent variable passed to a function
# {{context|programming|lang=sv}} an argument; a variable passed to a function

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}

[[ar:argument]]
[[az:argument]]
[[cs:argument]]
[[da:argument]]
[[de:argument]]
[[et:argument]]
[[el:argument]]
[[es:argument]]
[[eo:argument]]
[[eu:argument]]
[[fa:argument]]
[[fr:argument]]
[[gl:argument]]
[[ko:argument]]
[[hy:argument]]
[[hr:argument]]
[[io:argument]]
[[id:argument]]
[[it:argument]]
[[kn:argument]]
[[kk:argument]]
[[ku:argument]]
[[ky:argument]]
[[lv:argument]]
[[lt:argument]]
[[li:argument]]
[[hu:argument]]
[[mg:argument]]
[[ml:argument]]
[[my:argument]]
[[nl:argument]]
[[ja:argument]]
[[no:argument]]
[[uz:argument]]
[[pl:argument]]
[[pt:argument]]
[[ro:argument]]
[[ru:argument]]
[[sa:argument]]
[[sq:argument]]
[[simple:argument]]
[[sk:argument]]
[[sh:argument]]
[[fi:argument]]
[[sv:argument]]
[[ta:argument]]
[[te:argument]]
[[th:argument]]
[[chr:argument]]
[[tr:argument]]
[[tk:argument]]
[[uk:argument]]
[[vi:argument]]
[[zh:argument]]