==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˌɑːθɹəpɒˈdiːən/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of, resembling, or relating to the [[Arthropoda]].
#* '''1904''': Royal Irish Academy, ''Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy'', p320
#*: …the tendency at present is to regard such stages as of hardly any importance at all. Then comparisons have constantly been made between '''Arthropodean''' and…
#* '''1906''': John Edward Salvin Moore with Charles Edward Walker and the Liverpool Cancer Research Committee, ''First report on the cytological investigation of cancer, 1906'', p77
#*: Passing from the above vertebrate example to the old '''arthropodean''' type ''Periplaneta'' we find, as fig. 5 and the table on p.<!--“p.” may be a scanno--> will show, that here the number of the types of gemini is reduced from six to five.
#* '''1909''': Walter Edward Collinge [[et alii]], ''The Journal of Economic Biology'', p20
#*: Briefly the author endeavours to prove that vertebrates are derived directly from arthropods, that the '''arthropodean''' alimentary canal is represented by the ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord, the pituitary body and embryonic pharynx represent the mouth of the arthropod, and the neurenteric canal the primitive anus.
#* '''1955''': A<small>UTHOR UNKNOWN</small>, ''Research films'', p429 ''or'' 119 {{i|sources contradict}} — <i>M<small>ENTION ONLY</small></i>
#*: (888) M<small>ANTON</small>, S. M. The Evolution of '''Arthropodean''' Locomotory Mechanisms. Part I. The Locomotion of Peripatus. ''J. Linn. Soc.'' {{i|Zool.}} 1950, 41, 529.
#* '''2000''': The Paleontological Society, the Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, and the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, ''Journal of Paleontology'', p84
#*: …the arthropod inherited: — profuse segmentation and its segmental organs; its nervous system and sense organs, including segmental eyes from the peristome as well as from the succeeding segments; besides two pairs of eyes from the prostomium; a pair of antennae and anal cerci, besides the normal appendages, which in the interval between the polychaet and the pro-arthropod had acquired '''arthropodean''' character and were biramous; and pleura, which also are appendages, being derived from foliate lobes of…

====Quotations====
{{seeCites}}