==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈɑrtɪkəl/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)tɪkəl|-ɑː(r)tɪkəl]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
<!-- these defs are definitely in the wrong order! -->
# {{context|grammar}} A word, a type of [[determiner]], that specifies or limits the following noun. (''a'', ''an'', or ''the'' in English)
# A member of a group or class, e.g. ''article of clothing''.
# An object.
# A section of a legal document, bylaws, etc.
# A story, report, or opinion piece in a newspaper, magazine, or journal.
# {{context|derogatory}} A person.
# {{vulgar}} A wench. A prime article. A handsome girl.  She's a prime article (''whip slang''), she's a devilish good piece, a hell of a ''goer''.

====Derived terms====
*[[articled clerk]]
*[[definite article]]
*[[indefinite article]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|determiner, that specifies the noun}}
*Dutch: [[lidwoord]] {{n}}
*German: [[Artikel]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[άρθρο]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Polish: [[rodzajnik]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[artigo]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[člen]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[tanımlık]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|member of a group or class}}
*Dutch: [[artikel]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[artigo]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object}}
*Dutch: [[artikel]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[artigo]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|section of a legal document}}
*Dutch: [[artikel]] {{n}}
*German: [[Paragraph]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] {{m}}, [[comma]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[artigo]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[člen]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[madde]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|story, report, or opinion piece}}
*Dutch: [[artikel]] {{n}}
*German: [[Artikel]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] {{m}}, [[voce]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[artigo]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[članek]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[artículo]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[makale]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[ger-mell]] ''m'' -ioù-mell ''pl'' (1), [[tra]] ''f'' -où ''pl'' (2), [[mellad]] ''m'' -où ''pl'' (3), [[pennad-skrid]] ''m'' -où-skrid ''pl'' (4)
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: article ''m'' (1,3,4), [[paper]] ''m'' (4)
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[冠词]] (guanci)(1), [[物品]] (wupin)(2), [[文]] (wen)(3,4), [[文章]] (wenzhang)(3,4), [[条款]] (tiaokuan)(3)
*Finnish: [[artikkeli]] (1,2,4), [[artikla]] (3)
*{{ttbc|French}}: article ''m'' (1)
*{{ttbc|Greek, Ancient}}: [[ἄρθρον]] (arthron, 1) ''n''
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[מאמר]] (Ma'a'mar) ''m''
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[articulo]] (1,2,3,4)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[冠詞]] (かんし, kanshi)(1); [[品物]] (しなもの, shinamono), [[物品]] (ぶっぴん, buppin)(2); [[条]] (じょう, jou), [[条項]] (じょうこう, joukou);[[記事]] (きじ, kiji)(4)
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[مقاله]]}} (maghaaleh)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[artykułl]] ''m'' (2,4), [[paragraf]] ''m'' (3)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[articol]] ''n'' (1-4)
*{{ttbc|Scots}}: [[airticle]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[artículo]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Tok Pisin}}: [[Atikel]] (3)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[물품]](2)

[[Category:Parts of speech]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /aʁ.tikl/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /aR.tikl/

===Noun===
'''article'' ''m''

# article
# [[joint]], [[articulation]]

====Related terms====
*[[articulaire]]
*[[articulation#French|articulation]]
*[[articuler]]
*[[articulet]]

[[category:French nouns]]

[[bs:article]]
[[de:article]]
[[et:article]]
[[el:article]]
[[fa:article]]
[[fr:article]]
[[gl:article]]
[[ko:article]]
[[hy:article]]
[[io:article]]
[[it:article]]
[[hu:article]]
[[nl:article]]
[[ja:article]]
[[pt:article]]
[[ru:article]]
[[fi:article]]
[[vi:article]]
[[tr:article]]
[[zh:article]]