==English==

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun form}} {{tlb|en|rare}}

# {{en-irregular plural of|asbestos|ending=i}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=Observations on the Different Strata of Earths, and Minerals. More Parricularly{{sic}} of such as are found in the Coal-Mines of Great Britain |author=John Strachey |authorlink=John Strachey (geologist) |year=1727 |location=London |publisher=Printed for J. Walthoe,{{nb...|over-against the Royal-Exchange, in Cornhill.}} |chapter=Magnesia |section=“§ 107.” |page=51 |text={{smc|Cronstedt}} Min. §§ 79---83. and perhaps § 102—105 alſo; but I have not yet ſubmitted the '''aſbeſti''' to the liquid analyſis. |footer=(''Aſbeſtos'' in page 4.)}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=A General Natural History: or, New and Accurate Descriptions of the Animals, Vegetables, and Minerals, of the Different Parts of the World;{{nb...|With Their Virtues and Uses, as far as hitherto certainly known, in Medicine and Mechanics: Illustrated by a General Review of the Knowledge of the Ancients, and the Discoveries and Improvements of later Ages in these Studies. Including the History of the Materia Medica, Pictoria, and Tinctoria, of the Present and Earlier Ages. As Also Observations on the neglected Properties of many valuable Substances known at present; and Attempts to discover the lost Medicines, &c. of former Ages, in a Series of Critical Enquiries into the Materia Medica of the Ancient Greeks. With a great Number of Figures, elegantly engraved.}} |volume=I: “The History of Fossils.” |author=John Hill |authorlink=John Hill (botanist) |year=1748 |location=London |publisher=Printed for [[w:Thomas Osborne (publisher)|Thomas Osborne]],{{nb...|in Gray’s-Inn, Holbourn.}} |chapter=Series II. Class II. Order II. Genus I. Asbesti |section=“{{smc|Sect.}} II. ASBESTI, whoſe filaments are naturally diſunited, and never form’d into compact maſſes”, “1. Aſbeſtus albeſcens, filamentoſus, fibris latiuſculis. White, looſe, thready Aſbeſtos, with broad filaments.” |page=105 |text=This is a very ſingular and beautiful Foſſil, it is not found in veins in marble as many of the other '''Aſbeſti''' are, nor in compact and ſeparate maſſes of itſelf in the earth as the reſt; but ever in a looſe diſhevell’d form, and very much reſembling the artificially ſeparated filaments of ſome unknown ſpecies of that body; it is uſually found in conſiderable bundles, and is compos’d of long and generally crooked filaments of a flatted figure, and of a pure ſnow white; they are conſiderably broader than the filaments of any known ſpecies of the Aſbeſtos, and are found from two inches, to eight, ten, twelve, or more in length:{{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=Essays Physical and Chemical |by=[[w:Torbern Bergman|Torbern Bergman]] |year=1791 |location=Edinburgh |publisher=Printed for G. Mudie,{{nb...|South-Bridge Street}}, and J. & J. Fairbairn,{{nb...|Hunter’s Square}} |chapter=IV. Of the Asbestine Earth |section=“§ xv. ''Corollary''” |page=203 |text=For, at the time that this paper was written, no perfect analyſis of the aſbeſtos had as yet been made, and two only of its principles were known. We would, however, hope to flatter ourſelves, that we have determined the ſpecific difference of the aſbeſtos among eleven varieties, both as to their agreement in external characters as well as inward compoſition.&nbsp;/ The '''aſbeſti''' have been hitherto applied to little or no uſe. Formerly, indeed, cloths made of the ſoftest kinds were employed to wrap up the bodies of the dead, that, by its qualities of reſiſting fire, their aſhes might be preſerved. But on the abolition of funeral piles, the utility of the aſbeſtos ceaſed.}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=[[w:English Encyclopaedia|The English Encyclopædia: Being a Collection of Treatises, and a Dictionary of Terms, Illustrative of the Arts and Sciences]] |volume=IV |year=1802 |location=London |publisher=Printed for G. Kearsley |entry=INCOMBUSTIBLE {{smc|cloth}} |page=640 |column=2 |text=See {{smc|Asbestos}}. On this Cronſtedt obſerves, that the natural ſtore of the '''aſbeſti''' is in proportion to their economical uſe, both being very inconſiderable.}}
#* {{quote-book |en |brackets=on |title=Death |volume=3 |author=Marshall Houts |authorlink=Marshall Houts |author2=Irwin H. Haut |year=1966 |text=Some pathostreptococci, slightly hemolytic and also some coagulase, negative staphylococci or staphylococcus, as well as asbestos bodies.&nbsp;/ Q. They call it '''asbesti''' on here.&nbsp;/ A. Well. asbestos bodies.}}
# {{en-irregular plural of|asbestus|ending=i}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=A General Natural History: or, New and Accurate Descriptions of the Animals, Vegetables, and Minerals, of the Different Parts of the World;{{nb...|With Their Virtues and Uses, as far as hitherto certainly known, in Medicine and Mechanics: Illustrated by a General Review of the Knowledge of the Ancients, and the Discoveries and Improvements of later Ages in these Studies. Including the History of the Materia Medica, Pictoria, and Tinctoria, of the Present and Earlier Ages. As Also Observations on the neglected Properties of many valuable Substances known at present; and Attempts to discover the lost Medicines, &c. of former Ages, in a Series of Critical Enquiries into the Materia Medica of the Ancient Greeks. With a great Number of Figures, elegantly engraved.}} |volume=I: “The History of Fossils.” |author=John Hill |authorlink=John Hill (botanist) |year=1748 |location=London |publisher=Printed for [[w:Thomas Osborne (publisher)|Thomas Osborne]],{{nb...|in Gray’s-Inn, Holbourn.}} |chapter=Series II. Class II. Order II. Genus I. Asbesti |section=“{{smc|Sect.}} II. ASBESTI, whoſe filaments are naturally diſunited, and never form’d into compact maſſes”, “1. Aſbeſtus albeſcens, filamentoſus, fibris latiuſculis. White, looſe, thready Aſbeſtos, with broad filaments.” |page=105 |text={{...}}they are the largeſt of all the ultimate fibres of the '''Aſbeſti''', but are evidently ſuch. This ſeems the lighteſt of all the ſpecies of the Aſbeſtus.}}
#* {{quote-journal |en |journal=The Edinburgh Magazine |year=1762 |month=February |title=Natural History, Selected from the best authors ancient and modern |page=59 |column=2 |pageurl=https://archive.org/stream/sim_edinburgh-magazine_1762-02_6#page/n2/mode/1up |text=Theſe are the '''Aſbeſti'''. The antients uſed to make cloth of the Aſbeſtus, which they called ''linum incombuſlabile''.}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=A New and Complete Dictionary of Arts and Sciences, Comprehending All the Branches of Useful Knowledge,{{nb...|with Accurate Descriptions as well of the various Machines, Instruments, Tools, Figures, and Schemes necessary for illustrating them, as of the Classes, Kinds, Preparations, and Uses of Natural Productions, whether Animals, Vegetables, Minerals, Fossils, or Fluids; Together with the Kingdoms, Provinces, Cities, Towns, and other remarkable Places throughout the World. Illustrated with above Three Hundred Copper-Plates, engraved by Mr. Jefferys, Geographer to His Majesty. The Whole extracted from the Beſt Authors in all Languages.}} |edition=second |volume=I |year=1763 |location=London |publisher=Printed for W. Owen,{{nb...|at Homer’s Head, in Fleet-street.}} |entry=AMIANTHUS |page=122 |column=2 |pageurl=https://archive.org/stream/gri_newandcomple01soci#page/n179/mode/1up |text=AMIANTHUS, in natural hiſtory, vulgarly called earth-lax, a fibroſe, flexile, and elaſtic mineral subſtance, compoſed of ſhort and abrupt filaments; being a genus of that order of foſſils called '''aſbeſti'''. See the article {{smc|Asbestus}}.}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=An Essay Towards a System of Mineralogy |trans=Gustav von Engestrom |editor=[[w:Emanuel Mendes da Costa|Emanuel Mendes da Costa]] |by=[[w:Axel Fredrik Cronstedt|Axel Fredric Cronstedt]] |year=1770 |location=London |publisher=Printed for Edward and [[w:Charles Dilly|Charles Dilly]] |chapter=I. Earths”, “3. The garnet-kind |section=“''B.'' Shirl or cockle”, “1. Mixed with iron”, “''D.'' (Sect. LXXV) Cryſtalliſed cockle, or ſhirl, ''Baſaltes cryſtalliſatus''” |page=82 |text=To this ſpecies of cockle, or ſhirl, belong moſt of thoſe ſubſtances called ''imperfect '''aſbeſti'''''; and as the cockle perfectly resembles a flag from an iron furnace, both in regard to its metallic contents, and its glaſſy texture, it is no wonder that it is not ſoft enough to be taken for an aſbeſtus. It has however, only for the ſake of its ſtructure, been ranked among the '''aſbeſti'''; and it is ſurpriſing, that the fibrous gypſum, from Andrarum, in the province of Skone, has eſcaped being on the ſame account confounded with them. The ſtriated cockle, or ſhirl, compared to the '''aſbeſti''', is of a ſhining and angular ſurface (though this ſometimes requires the aid of the magnifying-glaſs to be diſcovered) always ſomewhat tranſparent, and is pretty eaſily brought to a glaſs with the blow-pipe, without being conſumed, as the pure '''aſbeſti''' ſeem to be.}}
#* {{quote-book |en |title=Fossils Arranged according to their Obvious Characters;{{nb...|with their History and Description; under the Articles of Form, Hardness, Weight, Surface, Colour, and Qualities; The Place of their Production, their Uses, and Distinctive English, and Classical Latin Names.}} |author=J. Hill |authorlink=John Hill (botanist) |year=1771 |location=London |publisher=Printed for R. Baldwin,{{nb...|in Pater-noster Row}}; and [[w:Peter Elmsley (bookseller)|P. Elmsly]],{{nb...|in the Strand.}} |chapter=Native Fossils |section=“Class VII. Asbestine Fossils. Asbestiæ” |page=158 |text=’Tis ſaid, the '''Aſbeſti''' are formed of Talc, reſolving itſelf into Clay: it muſt then have been ſtriated in the plated ſtate: but ’tis not ſo. |footer=(''Aſbeſtus'' in index.)}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=abeisst|batises}}

----

==Estonian==

===Noun===
{{head|et|noun form}}

# {{noun form of|et|asbest||gen|s}}
# {{noun form of|et|asbest||par|s}}
# {{noun form of|et|asbest||ill|s}}

----

==Finnish==
{{wikipedia|lang=fi}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|fi|la|asbestos}}, from {{der|fi|grc|ἄσβεστος}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{fi-pronunciation}}

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# {{lb|fi|mineral}} [[asbestos]]

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|asbest|||a}}