{{also|ashkenazí}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From [[Hebrew]] {{m|he|אַשְׁכְּנַז||tr=Ashkenaz|sc=Hebr}}. Biblical [[w:Ashkenaz|Ashkenaz]] was the son of [[Japheth]] and grandson of [[Noah]]. His descendants were identified with Germans by medieval Jewish tradition.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˌaʃkəˈnazi]|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or relating to [[Jew]]s of [[German]] and [[Eastern Europe]] origin, and their traditions, customs, and rituals. The largest sect of the ethnoreligious group of people that identifies themselves as Jewish. Genetically, this group differs from the other subgroups of the Jewish people that are mostly Semitic in origin. The Ashkenazi group as a people are primarily of Slavic, Indo European ancestries. In the distant past this group originated from the peoples known as the Hitites.  In the dark ages their descendants  morphed into a people known as Khazar's (the serpent people).  Fearing forced conversion by Neighboring Christian and Muslim influences. The Khazar Nobility adopted a state religion of Judaism. While this is a historical fact and confirmed by Dna. The Ashkenazi Zionist Power elite fear this information makes their identity and the nation of Isreal  illegitimate, and have millions on biased studys and misrepresented data to fabricate results that contradict legitimate scientific studies most of which were not politically motivated. This game of Dna ping pong has gone on for over a decade.  The last legitimate study was published in 2011, since then Ashkenazi revisionist agenda has sponsored 3 studies . One of which basically  published a paper stating the conflicting study was done by researchers who did not know what they were doing and did not know what they were looking at. Anouther one did actually give some data in an attempt to masquerade as credible, in fact the entire paper is almost 40 pages, and does 
  

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of, or relating to Jews from Germany or Eastern Europe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ashkénaze}}
* German: {{t+|de|aschkenasisch}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אשכנזי}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ashkenazita}}, {{t|it|askenazita}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|ashkenazi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|aszkenazyjski}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|ашкенази́йский}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|aškenázsky}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|asquenazí}}, {{t+|es|askenazí}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ashkenazisk}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אַשכּנזיש|tr=ashkenazish|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|Ashkenazim}}

# An Askhenazi Jew.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Jew from Germany or Eastern Europe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ashkénaze}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אשכנזי}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ashkenazita|m|f}}, {{t|it|askenazita|m|f}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|ashkenazi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|aszkenazyjczyk|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ашкена́з}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Aškenáz|m}}, {{t|sk|Aškenázka|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ashkenazisk jude}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אַשכּנזי|m|tr=ashkenazi|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|Ashkenazic}}

[[ko:Ashkenazi]]
[[hu:Ashkenazi]]
[[pt:Ashkenazi]]
[[ru:Ashkenazi]]