==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from modern Scandinavian ({{etyl|sv|en}}, {{etyl|no|en}},{{etyl|da|en}}) {{m|sv|Astrid}} since the 19th century.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|from=Germanic}}.
#* '''2005''' {{w|Ali Smith}}, ''The Accidental'', Penguin (2006), ISBN 9780141010397, page 31:
#*: '''Astrid''', the person is saying. Astrum, astralis. How does it feel to have such a starry name?

====Translations====
{{trans-top|female given name}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Astrīda|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[TARDIS#English|TARDIS]], [[Tardis#English|Tardis]], [[triads#English|triads]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|Ástríðr|lang=non}}, from  {{term|áss||god|lang=non}} + {{term|fríðr||beautiful|lang=non}}. Has 
existed since the middle age.

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=da}}.

====Related terms====
* {{l|da|Asta}}

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|Astrid (voornaam)|lang=nl}}

===Proper noun===
{{nl-proper noun|f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=nl}}, borrowed from [[Scandinavia]].

----

==Estonian==

===Proper noun===
{{head|et|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=et}} of {{etyl|non|et}} origin.

====Related terms====
* {{l|et|Asta}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from modern Scandinavian ({{etyl|sv|fr}}, {{etyl|no|fr}}, {{etyl|da|fr}}) {{m|sv|Astrid}}.

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=fr}}. 

====Usage notes====
* Popular in France in the latter half of the 20th century.

----

==German==
{{wikipedia|lang=de}}
===Etymology===
Borrowed from modern Scandinavian ({{etyl|sv|de}}, {{etyl|no|de}}, {{etyl|da|de}}) {{m|sv|Astrid}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=de}}.

====Related terms====
* {{l|de|Estrid}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|no|Astri}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|no}} {{term|Ástríðr|lang=non}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=no}}.

====Usage notes====
* Used in Norway since the Middle Ages. A royal name.

====Related terms====
* {{l|no|Asta}}

===References===
* Kristoffer Kruken - Ola Stemshaug: Norsk personnamnleksikon, Det Norske Samlaget, Oslo 1995, ISBN 82-521-4483-7
* [http://www.ssb.no/navn/ ] Statistisk sentralbyrå, Namnestatistikk: 19 003 females with the given name Astrid living in Norway on January 1st 2011, with the frequency peak in the 1930s. Accessed on April 18th, 2011.

----
{{wikipedia|lang=sv}}

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|Ástríðr|lang=non}}. Occurs in Norse mythology, revived in Sweden in 1820.

===Proper noun===
{{head|sv|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=sv}}.

====Related terms====
* {{l|sv|Asta}}
* {{l|sv|Estrid}}

===References===
* Roland Otterbjörk: Svenska förnamn, Almqvist & Wiksell 1996, ISBN 91-21-10937-0
* [http://www.scb.se/Pages/NameSearch____259432.aspx] Statistiska centralbyrån and Sture Allén, Staffan Wåhlin, ''Förnamnsboken'', Norstedts 1995, ISBN 9119551622: 39 001 females with the given name Astrid living in Sweden on December 31st, 2010, with the frequency peak in the 1900s decade. Accessed on 19 June 2011.

[[de:Astrid]]
[[et:Astrid]]
[[el:Astrid]]
[[es:Astrid]]
[[fr:Astrid]]
[[ko:Astrid]]
[[is:Astrid]]
[[li:Astrid]]
[[no:Astrid]]
[[pl:Astrid]]
[[ru:Astrid]]
[[sr:Astrid]]
[[fi:Astrid]]
[[sv:Astrid]]
[[th:Astrid]]