{{also|Atmán}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[Atman]]
* [[Ātman]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sa|en}} {{term|आत्मन्||soul; self; essence|tr=ātmán|sc=Deva|lang=sa}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} (compare Old English {{m|ang|ǣþm||breath}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɑːtman/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Hinduism|Buddhism|Jainism|Vedanta|lang=en}} The true [[self]] of an individual beyond [[identification]] with [[phenomena]], the [[essence]] of an individual.
#* '''1994''', John Hick, ''Death and Eternal Life'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=y82VKVtQyF0C&pg=PA450&dq=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WRKsU7_zKsWdkwXauIHoBA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&f=false page 450],
#*: However, we have been led beyond this to a threefold analysis which in its western version is body-soul-spirit and in its eastern version body-mind-'''atman'''.
#* '''2005''', Bansi Pandit, ''Explore Hinduism'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=PT5h4IjBMk0C&pg=PA63&dq=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WRKsU7_zKsWdkwXauIHoBA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&f=false page 63],
#*: '''Atman''' is the manifestation of ''brahman'' in the human body. The central theme of the Upanishads is that in the liberated state the '''atman''' is identical with ''brahman''.{{...}}The word '''atman''' is generally translated as soul, self or spirit. However, in view of the Western definition of the soul, '''atman''' and soul are not the same.{{...}}In the Western view, the soul is created by God. In the Hindu view, the '''atman''', being eternal, is not created by God. It is a part of God.
#* '''2006''', Donald Goergen, ''Fire of Love: Encountering the Holy Spirit'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=1KU4rpZdhrsC&pg=PA151&dq=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WRKsU7_zKsWdkwXauIHoBA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&f=false page 151],
#*: The human being in Hindu thought comprises '''Atman''' (or ''Punisha'') and ''Maya'' (or ''Prakriti''). The Hindu doctrine of '''Atman''' concerns one's deepest identity.
#* '''2006''', Karen Armstrong, ''The Great Transformation'', Atlantic Books 2007, p. 84:
#*: The priests who were immersed in the ritual science of the ''Brahmanas'' began to speculate on the nature of the self, and gradually the word "'''atman'''" came to refer to the essential and eternal core of the human person, which made him or her unique.
#* '''2011''', Owen Flanagan, ''The Bodhisattva's Brain: Buddhism Naturalized'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=2wkkvC13wRIC&pg=PA124&dq=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WRKsU7_zKsWdkwXauIHoBA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22atman%22%7C%22atmans%22&f=false page 124],
#*: The Brahmanic tradition that Buddhism is both connected to and a reaction against was, according to almost every scholar, over the top as regards '''atman'''. So, not only were individuals possessed of an immutable, indestructible '''atman'''. Some, perhaps many Brahmins were asserting that they were ATMAN.

====Related terms====
* [[anatman|anātman]]
* [[anatta|anattā]]
* [[Sutratman]]

===Anagrams===
* [[manat#English|manat]]
* [[manta#English|manta]]

[[et:atman]]
[[fr:atman]]
[[id:atman]]
[[it:atman]]
[[ku:atman]]
[[hu:atman]]
[[pt:atman]]
[[sh:atman]]
[[ta:atman]]
[[vi:atman]]