==English==
{{slim-wikipedia|dab=attachment}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|attachement}}, equivalent to {{suffix|attach|ment|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/əˈtætʃmənt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-attachment.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The act or process of (physically or figuratively) attaching.
#* '''2005''', Rebecca N. Baergen, ''Manual of Benirschke and Kaufmann's Pathology of the Human Placenta'', page 71:
#*: The “implantation window” is a short, specific phase during which '''attachment''' of the blastocyst occurs.
# A strong bonding towards or with.
#: ''I have such an '''attachment''' towards my fiancé!''
# A [[dependence]], especially a strong one.
#* '''2003''', Griffith Edwards, ''Alcohol: The World's Favorite Drug'', page 63:
#*: Through every other kind of drug experience, however, ran his '''attachment''' to alcohol.
# A device attached to a piece of equipment or a tool.
#* '''1978''', Walter H. Wager, ''Time of reckoning'', page 194:
#*: Zimchenko's phone had a tape '''attachment''', {{...}}
# The means by which something is physically attached.
#* '''2012''', Sinikka Elliott, ''Not My Kid: What Parents Believe about the Sex Lives of Their Teenagers'', page 46:
#*: [The umbilical cord is] the '''attachment''' connecting the fetus with the placenta.
# {{lb|en|computing}} A file sent along with an [[email]].
# {{lb|en|legal}} Taking a person's [[property]] to satisfy a court-ordered [[debt]].
#: '''''attachment''' of earnings''
# {{lb|en|meteorology}} The act or process by which any (downward) [[leader]] [[connect]]s to any available (upward) [[streamer]] in a [[lightning]] flash.
#* '''2009''', Jakke Mäkelä, Eero Karvinen, Niko Porjo, Antti Mäkelä and Tapio Tuomi, ''Attachment of Natural Lightning Flashes to Trees: Preliminary Statistical Characteristics'', published in the ''Journal of Lightning Research'', volume 1

====Translations====
{{trans-top|strong bonding towards or with}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կապվածություն|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вярност}}, {{t+|bg|привързаност}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiintymys}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αφοσίωση|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|लगाव|m|tr=lagaav|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ragaszkodás}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|legame|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apego|m}}, {{t+|pt|afeição|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|atașament|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|привя́занность|f}}, {{t+|ru|ве́рность|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|tlachd|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apego|m}}, {{t+|es|cariño}}, {{t+|es|afición|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dependence, especially a strong one}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+check|bg|преданост}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gehechtheid|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riippuvuus}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εξάρτηση|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ragaszkodás}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przywiązanie|n}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|atașament|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пре́данность|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device attached to a piece of equipment or a tool}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisälaite}}, {{t+|fi|lisävaruste}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εξάρτημα|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tartozék}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|atachuro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приста́вка|f}}, {{t+|ru|крепле́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|приспособле́ние|n}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|ychwanegiad|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|process or means by which something is physically attached}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiinnitys}}, {{t|fi|kiinnike}}, {{t|fi|kiinnekohta}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προσάρτηση|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapiringa}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|atașare|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|присоедине́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|прикрепле́ние|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|file sent along with an email}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|إِلْحَاق|m}}, {{t|ar|مُلْحَق|m}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կցորդ|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приложе́ние|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|附件|tr=fùjiàn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bijlage|f}}, {{t|nl|attachment|n}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kaasatud fail}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liitetiedosto}}, {{t+|fi|liite}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pièce jointe}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anlage|f}}, {{t+|de|Anhang|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επισύναψη|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|melléklet}}, {{t+|hu|csatolmány}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|allegato|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|添付ファイル|tr=tenpu-fairu|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vedlegg|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|vedlegg|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ضمیمه|tr=zamime|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|załącznik|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|anexo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вложе́ние|n}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|archivo adjunto}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bilaga|c}}, [[bifoga#Swedish|bifogad]] [[fil#Swedish|fil]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|legal: taking a person's property to satisfy a debt}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|beslaglegging|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ulosotto}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κατάσχεση|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|astú|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|utlegg|n}}, {{t|no|ta utlegg i}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ejecución|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|attachment disorder}}

[[Category:en:E-mail]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛˈtɛtʃmənt/|/ɑˈtɛtʃmənt/|lang=nl}}
* {{hyphenation|at|tach|ment|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|en|attachment|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|g2=n|-s|-}}

# {{l|en|attachment}} {{gloss|to an email}}

[[ar:attachment]]
[[cs:attachment]]
[[cy:attachment]]
[[et:attachment]]
[[el:attachment]]
[[es:attachment]]
[[eo:attachment]]
[[fa:attachment]]
[[fr:attachment]]
[[ko:attachment]]
[[hy:attachment]]
[[io:attachment]]
[[it:attachment]]
[[kn:attachment]]
[[ka:attachment]]
[[kk:attachment]]
[[ku:attachment]]
[[hu:attachment]]
[[mg:attachment]]
[[ml:attachment]]
[[my:attachment]]
[[ja:attachment]]
[[pl:attachment]]
[[ro:attachment]]
[[ru:attachment]]
[[sa:attachment]]
[[sh:attachment]]
[[fi:attachment]]
[[sv:attachment]]
[[ta:attachment]]
[[te:attachment]]
[[chr:attachment]]
[[vi:attachment]]
[[zh:attachment]]