==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* Noun:
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈætrɪbjuːt/}}
** {{a|US}} {{enPR|ă'trĭ-byo͞ot}}, {{IPA|/ˈætrɪbjut/}}
** {{audio|en-us-attribute-noun.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Verb:
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/æˈtrɪbjuːt/}}
** {{a|US}} {{enPR|ă-trĭb'yo͞ot}}, {{IPA|/æˈtrɪbjut/}}
** {{audio|en-us-attribute-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|attributus|lang=la}} past participle of {{term|attribuere}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[characteristic]] or [[quality]] of a thing.
#: ''His finest '''attribute''' is his kindness.''
# {{context|grammar|lang=en}} A word that qualifies a [[noun]].
#: ''In the clause "My jacket is more expensive than yours", "My" is the '''attribute''' of "jacket".''
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} The applicable option selection; a [[variable]] or a [[value]].
#: ''This packet has its coherency '''attribute''' set to zero.''
# {{context|logic|lang=en}} That which is predicated or affirmed of a subject; a [[predicate]]; an [[accident]].<!--From Century 1911.-->
# {{context|computing|programming|lang=en}} A [[semantic]] item with which a [[method]], etc. may be [[decorate]]d.
#: ''There are some more implementations which use C# '''attribute'''s to define custom attributes specific to the AOP engine. Then the classes that need to be intercepted will be decorated with these custom attributes.''

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:characteristic]]

====Derived terms====
{{der-top|}}
* [[attributeness]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[relational attribute]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top|}}
* [[attributive]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|characteristic or quality}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|atribut}}, {{t|sq|veti}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|বৈশিষ্ট্য|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|качество}}, {{t+|bg|свойство}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|kinaiya}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|屬性|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|属性|tr=shǔxìng|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|attribut}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|attribuut|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|trajto}}, {{t+|eo|eco}}, {{t|eo|propreco}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|määrite}}, {{t+|fi|attribuutti}}, {{t+|fi|ominaisuus}}, {{t+|fi|piirre}}
* French: {{t+|fr|attribut|m}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|atribi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tulajdonság}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aitreabúid|f}}, {{t|ga|dílseacht|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|性質|tr=seisitsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Javanese: {{t|jv|ngubungake}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|គុណលក្ខណៈ|tr=kounalokkhan|sc=Khmr}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ໃຫ້ເຫດຜົນ|tr=hai hedphon|sc=Laoo}}
* Latin: {{t|la|attributum|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|sifat}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|संबंध लावणे|n|tr=sambandha lāvaṇē|sc=Deva}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|attributt|m}}, {{t+|no|egenskap|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|atrybut}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atributo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|свойство|n|tr=svójstvo}}, {{t|ru|характерная черта|f|tr=xaraktérnaja čertá}}, {{t+|ru|атрибут|m|tr=atribút}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|atributo|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sifa}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|attribut}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|katangian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar: word qualifying a noun}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ميزة|f|tr=miiza}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|определение}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|定語|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|定语|tr=dìngyǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|attribuutti}}, {{t+|fi|määre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|épithète|f}} or {{t+|fr|déterminant|m}}, depending on which class it belongs
* German: {{t+|de|Attribut|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|jelző}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|限定詞|tr=げんていし, genteishi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|определение|n|tr=opredelénije}}, {{t+|ru|атрибут|m|tr=atribút}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: the applicable option selection}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|atribut}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|屬性|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|属性|tr=shǔxìng|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|attribuutti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Attribut|n}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|属性|tr=zokusei}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|атрибут|m|tr=atribut|sc=Cyrl}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|атрибут|m|tr=atrybut|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|attribut|ing}}

# To [[ascribe]] (something) {{term|to}} a given cause, reason etc.
#* Archbishop Tillotson
#*: We '''attribute''' nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradiction in it.
#* Shakespeare
#*: The merit of service is seldom '''attributed''' to the true and exact performer.
#* '''2009''', {{w|Diarmaid MacCulloch}}, ''A History of Christianity'', Penguin 2010, p. 278:
#*: Hākim's atypical actions should not be '''attributed''' to Islam as much as to insanity, which eventually led him to proclaim himself as Allah, whereupon he was murdered by outraged fellow Muslims.
# To associate [[ownership]] or [[authorship]] of (something) {{term|to}} someone.
#: ''This poem is '''attributed''' to Browning.''

====Derived terms====
{{der-top|}}
* [[attributable]]
* [[attribution]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to associate ownership or authorship with}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|atribuoj}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приписвам}}, {{t+|bg|отдавам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|připisovat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toeschrijven}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|atribui}}
* French: {{t+|fr|attribuer}}
* German: {{t+|de|zuschreiben}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tulajdonít}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|atribuar}}
* Papiamentu: {{t|pap|atribui}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przypisać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atribuir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приписывать}}, {{t+|ru|относить}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|atribuir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|attribūte}}

# {{inflection of|attribūtus||voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[ar:attribute]]
[[et:attribute]]
[[el:attribute]]
[[fa:attribute]]
[[fr:attribute]]
[[gl:attribute]]
[[ko:attribute]]
[[io:attribute]]
[[id:attribute]]
[[it:attribute]]
[[kn:attribute]]
[[kk:attribute]]
[[ku:attribute]]
[[hu:attribute]]
[[mg:attribute]]
[[ml:attribute]]
[[my:attribute]]
[[ja:attribute]]
[[pl:attribute]]
[[ru:attribute]]
[[simple:attribute]]
[[fi:attribute]]
[[ta:attribute]]
[[te:attribute]]
[[tr:attribute]]
[[vi:attribute]]
[[zh:attribute]]