==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|AU}} {{enPR|ŏz'-i}}, {{IPA|/ˈɒzi/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US|UK}} {{enPR|ŏs'-i}}, {{IPA|/ˈɒsi/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒzi|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} An [[Australian]].
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} An [[Australian Shepherd]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|an Australian}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أوزي|tr=ʾūzī, ʾozi}}, {{t|ar|أسترالي|m|tr=ʾustrālī}}, {{t|ar|أسترالية|f|tr=ʾustrāliyya}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|австралиец}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|澳洲人|tr=Àozhōurén|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|澳大利亞人|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|澳大利亚人|tr=Aòdàlìyàrén|sc=Hani}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|オージー|tr=ōjī}}, {{t|ja|オーストラリア人|tr=ōsutoraria-jin}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|오지|sc=Hang}}, {{t|ko|오스트레일리아인|sc=Hang}}, {{t|ko|호주 사람|sc=Hang}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|австрали́ец|m}}, {{t+|ru|австрали́йка|f}}, {{t|ru|австра́л|m}} {{qualifier|slang}}, {{t|ru|австра́лка|f}} {{qualifier|slang}}, {{t|ru|о́ззи|m|f}}, {{t|ru|о́зи|m|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Avustralyalı}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: Australian Shepherd}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} [[Australia]].

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-|more}}

# {{context|chiefly|Australia|New Zealand|British|colloquial|lang=en}} [[Australian]].
#* '''1998''', Gordon L. Steinbrook, ''Allies and Mates: An American Soldier with the Australians and New Zealanders in Vietnam 1966-1967'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=tjFOnGRPSw4C&pg=PA63&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=zZe8Tr7fIpCOmQWojtWLBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 63],
#*: Most '''Aussie''' officers seemed this way to me; always cool, deliberate, and extremely rational in their decision making, a far cry from the American leadership I had seen during my first year in the army.
#* '''2010''', Veechi Curtis, Lynley Averis, ''Bookkeeping For Dummies'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=Bn3WQmSwNMYC&pg=PA81&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=zZe8Tr7fIpCOmQWojtWLBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 81],
#*: Here's something I learned the hard way: The very best time of year to start off with accounting software is the beginning of the financial year (1 July for most '''Aussie''' businesses, and 1 April for most Kiwi businesses).
#* '''2011''', John Wiley & Sons Inc, ''Wiley Trading Guide'', Volume 2, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=fNTkGQiN7D8C&pg=PA152&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=r5W8Tr21A8nImAXUxMHDBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 153],
#*: For example, if you buy US dollars (USD) using Australian dollars (AUD) and the '''Aussie''' dollar falls, you can then sell your US dollars and you will have made money as you will have more '''Aussie''' dollars than you started with.
# {{context|comparable|chiefly|Australia|New Zealand|colloquial|lang=en}} That is generally identified as Australian; who [[embrace]]s Australian culture.
#: ''There’s not much more '''Aussie''' than a meat pie at the footy.''
#* '''2008''', Lois Nicholls, ''Aussie, Actually'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=TkXLK2Q1Bj0C&pg=PA111&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=MJG8TqCCGebamAWBwPSwBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 111],
#*: They′re the ‘Almost Aussies’ who embrace their new culture with a vengeance – some becoming more '''Aussie''' than Aussies.
#* '''2008''', Janet Fife-Yeomans, ''Heath: A Family's Tale'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=BXqsNg3h3fQC&pg=PA65&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=wZy8Tq6TE-znmAWo58G7BA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false page 65],
#*: You couldn't get more '''Aussie''' than the cast he chose—or their cars. The goodies drive Holdens and the baddies cruise around in a big, grunting, chocolate-brown Monaro.
#* '''2010''', Quintin Jardine, ''Screen Savers'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=3glVv7KjgO8C&pg=PT125&dq=%22more%7Cmost+aussie%22+-intitle:%22%22&hl=en&ei=PaK8Tvj2CI-6iAfWk7i-CQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22more%7Cmost%20aussie%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: ‘I'm a perfectionist, mate,’ he said, his accent becoming noticeably more '''Aussie''', as it always did in private.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|an Australian}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|オージーの|tr=ōjī-no}}, {{t|ja|オーストラリア人の|tr=ōsutoraria-jin-no}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Usage notes===
* The term is occasionally used, mostly by non-Australians, to refer to the country of [[Australia]] (for example, “''back in Aussie''”). This usage is very rare amongst Australians, who are more likely to use the term {{term|Oz}}. Sporting chants, such as “Aussie! Aussie! Aussie!” and “Come on, Aussie, come on!”, refer to the person, rather than the country. (Perhaps confusingly, they are used when cheering the country would be appropriate).

===Derived terms===
* [[Aussie cozzie]]
* [[Aussie Rules]]
* [[Oz]]

[[Category:English informal demonyms]]

[[ca:Aussie]]
[[et:Aussie]]
[[fr:Aussie]]
[[nl:Aussie]]
[[ja:Aussie]]
[[pl:Aussie]]
[[ru:Aussie]]
[[fi:Aussie]]
[[tr:Aussie]]
[[zh:Aussie]]