{{wikipedia}}
{{commons|Category:Avatar|Avatar}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* avatara, (''obsolete'') [[Avator]]

===Etymology===
From Hindustani {{term|sc=Deva|अवतार|lang=hi}} / {{term|sc=ur-Arab|اوتار|tr=avatār|lang=ur}}, from {{etyl|sa}} {{term|sc=Deva|अवतार|tr=ava-tāra||descent of a deity from a heaven|lang=sa}}, a compound of {{term|sc=Deva|अव|tr=ava||off, away, down|lang=sa}} and the [[vṛddhi]]-stem of the root {{term|sc=unicode|तरति|√tṝ|to pass across or over|lang=sa}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
In some cases, an avatar is master of all four elements: Water, Earth, Fire, and Air.
Existing to restore or maintain balance to the world.
# In [[Hinduism]] the [[incarnation]] of a deity, particularly [[Vishnu]].
# The physical [[embodiment]] of an [[idea]] or [[concept]]; a [[personification]].
#* '''1886''', Robert Louis Stevenson, dedicatory letter to ''Kidnapped'' [contrasting the historical Alan Breac with his incarnation in the novel].
#*: And honest Alan, who was a grim fire-eater in his day, has in this new '''avatar''' no more desperate purpose than to steal some young gentleman's attention from his Ovid...
# {{computing}} A [[digital]] [[representation]] of a [[person]] or [[being]].  As used in online communities such as Second Life.
#* '''1992''' Neal Stephenson, ''Snow Crash''
#*: The people are pieces of software called avatars. They are the audiovisual bodies that people use to communicate with each other in the Metaverse.
#* '''1986''' Habitat, video game published by Lucasfilms. Cited as the original source of this term in this context under the acknowledgments for Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|The physical embodiment of an idea or concept; a personification}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|avatar}}, {{t-|fi|ruumiillistuma}}, {{t-|fi|henkilöitymä}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|inkarnáció}}, {{t+|hu|megtestesülés}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Malayalam]]: {{t|ml|അവതാരം|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A digital representation of a person or being}} often used in games, virtual realities, message boards, instant messaging, blogs, etc. It is often a caricature, cartoon or simple image as opposed to a realistic photo of the user.
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|avatar}}, {{t+|fi|hahmo}}
* French: {{t|fr|avatar|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|avatar|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|avatar|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The earthly incarnation of a deity, particularly Vishnu}}
* {{trreq|Assamese}}
* {{trreq|Bengali}}
* French: {{t|fr|avatar|m}}
* {{trreq|Gujarati}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|avatára}}
* Italian: {{t|it|avatar|m}}
* {{trreq|Kannada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Malayalam}}
* {{trreq|Marathi}}
* {{trreq|Oriya}}
* {{trreq|Punjabi}}
* {{trreq|Sanskrit}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|avatar|m}}
* {{trreq|Tamil}}
* {{trreq|Telugu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Hindi derivations]]
[[Category:Urdu derivations]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[avatar#English|avatar]]
----
==Serbo-Croatian==

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=avàtār|r|аватар|ава̀та̄р}}

# [[#English|avatar]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun|avàtār|avatari|avatára|avatara|avataru|avatarima|avatara|avatare|avatare|avatari|avataru|avatarima|avatarom|avatarima}}

[[ar:avatar]]
[[el:avatar]]
[[es:avatar]]
[[fr:avatar]]
[[io:avatar]]
[[ru:avatar]]
[[simple:avatar]]
[[ta:avatar]]
[[te:avatar]]
[[tr:avatar]]
[[vi:avatar]]