{{also|taak}}
==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-tak.ogg|audio}}

===Adverb===
'''tak'''

# [[so]]

[[Category:Czech adverbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
See equivalent cognates in Icelandic [[takk]], Norwegian [[takk]], and Swedish [[tack]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tak/|lang=da}}

===Interjection===
'''tak'''

# [[thank you]], [[thanks]], [[ta]]

[[Category:Danish interjections]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-tak.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/tɑk/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=m|takken|*}}

# [[branch]]

====Derived terms====
* [[vertakken]]
* [[vertakking]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[tɛak]|lang=fo}}

===Noun===
'''tak''' {{n}}

# [[roof]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n5|t|a|k|ø}}

===Noun===
'''tak''' {{n}}

# [[grip]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n5|t|a|k|ø}}

[[Category:Faroese nouns]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tak/|lang=id}}

===Etymology===
Shorter form of ''[[tidak]]''

===Adverb===
{{infl|id|adverb}}

# [[no]]
# [[not]]

====Usage notes====
# Aku tak ingin pergi ke sana.
#* I do not want to go there.

====Synonyms====
* [[tidak]]
* [[ndak]] (colloquial)
* [[nggak]] (colloquial)
* [[kagak]] (colloquial)

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun}}

# [[roof]]
# [[ceiling]]

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=n1|nn-class=n1}}

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio-IPA|pl-tak.ogg|/tak/|lang=pl}}

===Adverb===
'''tak'''

# [[so]] (used for an emphasis)
#: ''Było '''tak''' ciemno, że nic nie widziałem.''
#:: It was so dark that I couldn't see anything.
#: ''Kocham cię '''tak''' bardzo!''
#:: I love you so much!
# like this; so (in this way)
#: ''Ona mi '''tak''' powiedziała.''
#:: She told me that.
#: ''Ja to robię '''tak'''.''
#:: I do it in this way.

===Interjection===
'''tak'''

# [[yes]]
#: - ''Zrobiłeś to? - '''Tak'''.''
#:: - Did you do that? - Yes, (I did).

====Related terms====
* [[chyba tak]]
* [[może tak]]

[[Category:Polish adverbs]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|sh}} {{term|taquet|lang=fr}}.

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=tȃk|r|так|та̑к}}

# [[billiard]]-[[cue]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|tak|takovi
|taka|takova
|taku|takovima
|tak|takove
|tače|takovi
|taku|takovima
|takom|takovima
}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-tak.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=n}}

# [[roof]]
# [[ceiling]]

====Derived terms====
* [[innertak]]
* [[yttertak]]
* [[takutspång]]
* [[takskägg]]

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

[[af:tak]]
[[cs:tak]]
[[da:tak]]
[[de:tak]]
[[et:tak]]
[[el:tak]]
[[es:tak]]
[[fr:tak]]
[[ko:tak]]
[[io:tak]]
[[id:tak]]
[[it:tak]]
[[sw:tak]]
[[ku:tak]]
[[lo:tak]]
[[lt:tak]]
[[li:tak]]
[[hu:tak]]
[[nl:tak]]
[[ja:tak]]
[[no:tak]]
[[pl:tak]]
[[ru:tak]]
[[sl:tak]]
[[fi:tak]]
[[sv:tak]]
[[tr:tak]]
[[vi:tak]]
[[vo:tak]]
[[wo:tak]]
[[zh:tak]]