{{also|také}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|taken||to take, lay hold of, grasp, strike|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|tacan||to grasp, touch|lang=ang}}, probably of {{etyl|gmq|en}} origin, from {{etyl|non|en}} {{term|taka||to touch, take|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*tēkaną||to touch}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*deh₁g-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*dh₁g-||to touch}}. Gradually displaced {{etyl|enm|-}} {{term|nimen||to take|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|niman||to take|lang=ang}}. Cognate with {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|taka||to take|lang=is}}, Danish {{term|tage||to take, seize|lang=da}}, {{etyl|dum|-}} {{term|taken||to grasp|lang=dum}},  {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|taken||to take; to grasp|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|gml|-}} {{term|tacken||to grasp|lang=gml}}; compare {{l|en|tackle}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|tāk}}, {{IPA|/teɪk/|[tʰeɪk]|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-uk-to take.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-take.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪk|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|takes|taking|took|taken}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[get]] into one's hands, [[possession]]{{,}} or control, with or without force.
#: '''''take''' a pen off the desk''; ''they '''took''' Charlton's gun from his cold, dead hands''
#: {{ux|en|I’ll '''take''' that plate off the table.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1963|author={{w|Margery Allingham}}|title={{w|The China Governess}}
|chapter=19|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL2004261W
|passage=Meanwhile Nanny Broome was recovering from her initial panic and seemed anxious to make up for any kudos she might have lost, by exerting her personality to the utmost. She '''took''' the policeman's helmet and placed it on a chair, and unfolded his tunic to shake it and fold it up again for him.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[seize]] or [[capture]].
##: '''''take''' the city''; '''''take''' the guards prisoner''; '''''take''' prisoners''
##: {{ux|en|After a bloody battle, they were able to '''take''' the city.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[catch]] or get possession of (fish or game).
##: '''''took''' ten catfish in one afternoon''
## {{lb|en|transitive|cricket}} To [[catch]] the ball; ''especially'' as a [[wicket-keeper]] and after the [[batsman]] has missed or edged it.
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[appropriate]] or [[transfer]] into one's own possession, sometimes by physically carrying off.
##: ''Billy '''took''' her pencil''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[exact]].
##: ''to '''take''' a toll''; ''to '''take''' revenge''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[capture]] or [[win]] (a [[piece]] or [[trick]]) in a [[game]].
##: '''''took''' the next two tricks''; '''''took''' Smith's rook''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[receive]] or [[accept]] (especially something given or bestowed, awarded, etc).
#: '''''took''' third place''; '''''took''' bribes''
#: {{ux|en|the camera '''takes''' 35mm film}}
#* {{w|Bible}}, {{w|Book of Numbers|Numbers}} xxxv.31:<!--right sense?-->
#*: Ye shall '''take''' no satisfaction for the life of a murderer.
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[receive]] or accept (something) as payment or compensation.
##: ''the store doesn't '''take''' checks''; ''she wouldn't '''take''' any money for her help''; ''the vending machine only '''takes''' bills, it doesn't '''take''' coins''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[accept]] and [[follow]] (advice, etc).
##: '''''take''' my advice''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[receive]] into some relationship.
##: '''''take''' a wife''; ''the school only '''takes''' new students in the fall''
##: ''the therapist wouldn't '''take''' him as a client''
## {{lb|en|transitive|legal}} To [[receive]] or [[acquire]] by law (e.g. as an heir).
##* '''1913''', ''Conrad v Conrad et al (Court of Appeals of Kentucky, Feb. 25, 1913)'', in ''The Southwestern Reporter'', volumes 153-154, page 741:
##*: The only interest they have in the land arises under the will of E. J. Turnham, under which they '''take''' one half of the land.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[remove]].
#: '''''take''' two egg from the cartoon''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[remove]] or [[end]] by [[death]]; to [[kill]].
##: ''the earthquake '''took''' many lives''; ''the plague '''took''' rich and poor alike''
##: ''cancer '''took''' her life''; ''he '''took''' his life last night''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[subtract]].
##: '''''take''' one from three and you are left with two''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To have [[sex]] with.
#* '''2011''', Georges Simenon, ''Monsieur Monde Vanishes'', page 126:
#*: He remembered her look of distress, her childish "Oh!" when he '''took''' her for the first time, clumsily, because he felt ashamed. And each time after that, each time they had sex together, {{...}} he tried to be as gentle as possible, {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fight]] or attempt to fight somebody. {{qualifier|See also ''[[take on]]''.}}
#: {{ux|en|Don't try to '''take''' that guy. He's bigger than you.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[grasp]] or [[grip]].
#: ''he '''took''' her hand in his''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[select]] or [[choose]]; to [[pick]].
#: '''''take''' whichever bag you like''; ''she '''took''' the best men with her and left the rest to garrison the city''
#: {{ux|en|I'll '''take''' the blue plates.}}
#* {{w|Bible}}, 1 {{w|Books of Samuel|Samuel}} xiv 42:
#*: Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was '''taken'''.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[adopt]] ([[select]]) as one's own.
#: ''she '''took''' his side in every argument''; '''''take''' a stand on the important issues''<!-- or is this 'come to have, form'? -->
# {{lb|en|transitive}} ''To carry or lead, especially to another place.''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[carry]] with one, especially to another place.
##: ''she '''took''' her sword with her everywhere she went''
##: {{ux|en|I'll '''take''' the plate with me.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive|especially of a vehicle}} To [[transport]] or [[carry]]; to convey to another place.
##: ''The next bus will '''take''' you to Metz.''
##: ''I '''took''' him for a ride / I '''took''' him down to London.''
## {{lb|en|transitive|of a|path, road, etc}} To [[lead]] (to a place); to serve as a means of reaching.
##: ''These stairs '''take''' you down to the basement.''
##: ''Stone Street '''took''' us right past the store.''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To pass (or attempt to pass) through or around.
##: ''she '''took''' the steps two or three at a time''; ''he '''took''' the curve (''or:'' corner) too fast''
##: {{ux|en|The pony '''took''' every hedge and fence in its path.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[escort]] or [[conduct]].
##: ''He '''took''' her to lunch at the new restaurant, '''took''' her to the movies, and then '''took''' her home.''
##* '''2002'''(?), {{w|J. R. R. Tolkien}}, {{w|The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers}}
##*: They're '''taking''' the Hobbits to Isengard!
## {{lb|en|reflexive}} To [[go]].
##* '''2007''', Edwin Mullins, ''The Popes of Avignon'', Blue Bridge, 2008, page 59:
##*: Nicholas then '''took''' himself to Avignon where in August 1330 he formally renounced his claim to the papacy.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[use]] as a means of [[transportation]].
#: '''''take''' the ferry''; ''he '''took''' the bus to London, and then '''took''' a train to Manchester''
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[visit]]; to include in a course of travel.
#* {{rfdate}}, Penn, ''Travels in Holland, etc'':
#*: Almost a year since, R. B. and B. F. '''took''' that city, in the way from Frederickstadt to Amsterdam, and gave them a visit.
#* '''1827''', ''Wesleyan Methodism in Manchester and its vicinity'', volume 1, page 7: 
#*: Mr. Clayton had not been long in his new situation, before Mr. Wasley tendered his personal respects to him; "For in May (1733), he set out for Epsworth, and '''took''' Manchster in his way to see him."
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[obtain]] for use by [[payment]] or [[lease]].
#: ''she '''took''' a condo at the beach for the summer''; ''he '''took''' a full-page ad in the Times''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[obtain]] or [[receive]] [[regularly]] by (paid) [[subscription]].
##: ''they '''took''' two magazines''
##: {{ux|en|I used to '''take''' The Sunday Times.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} ''To consume.''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[receive]] (medicine) into one's [[body]], e.g. by inhalation or swallowing; to [[ingest]].
##: '''''take''' two of these and call me in the morning''; '''''take''' the blue pill''
##: {{ux|en|I '''take''' aspirin every day to thin my blood.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[partake]] of (food or drink); to [[consume]].
##: ''the general '''took''' dinner at seven o'clock''; ''I'll '''take''' two sugars in my coffee, please.''
##* {{RQ:WBsnt IvryGt|III}}
##*: To such men as Mr. Hellyer, who every night '''take''' much strong drink, and on no occasion whatever take any exercise, sixty is the grand climacteric. He was, a year ago, just fifty-nine. Alas! he has not even reached his grand climacteric. Already he is gone. He was cut off by pneumonia, or apoplexy, last Christmas.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} ''To experience, undergo or endure.''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To undergo; to put oneself into or be subjected to.
##: '''''take''' sun-baths''; '''''take''' a shower''; ''she made the decision to '''take''' chemotherapy''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[experience]] or [[feel]].
##: ''she '''takes''' pride in her work''; ''he '''took''' pleasure in his opponent's death''; ''I '''take''' offence at that''
##: {{ux|en|to '''take''' a dislike;&emsp; to '''take''' pleasure}}
##* {{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=1
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]|chapter=1
|passage=Thinks I to myself, &ldquo;Sol, you're run off your course again. This is a rich man's summer &lsquo;cottage&rsquo; and if you don't look out there's likely to be some nice, lively dog '''taking''' an interest in your underpinning.&rdquo;}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[submit]] to; to [[endure]] (without ill humour, resentment, or physical failure).
##: '''''took''' a pay cut''; '''''take''' a joke''; ''the hull '''took''' a lot of punishment before it broke''
##: {{ux|en|I can '''take''' the noise, but I can't '''take''' the smell.}}
##: {{ux|en|That truck bed will only '''take''' two tons.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To participate in.
##: ''She '''took''' a vacation to France but spent the whole time feeling miserable that her husband couldn't be there with her.''
##: {{ux|en|Aren't you supposed to '''take''' your math final today?&emsp; {{nowrap|When will you '''take''' your vacation?}}&emsp; {{nowrap|I had to '''take''' a pee.}}}}
##* {{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=4
|passage=No matter how early I came down, I would find him on the veranda, smoking cigarettes, or{{nb...}}. And at last I began to realize in my harassed soul that all elusion was futile, and to '''take''' such holidays as I could get, when he was off with a girl, in a spirit of thankfulness.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[suffer]], to endure (a hardship or damage).
##: ''the ship '''took''' a direct hit and was destroyed'', ''her career '''took''' a hit''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to [[change]] to a specified state or condition.
#* '''2010''', Thomas M. Bloch, ''Many Happy Returns: The Story of Henry Bloch'', page 86:
#*: In 1961, they lined up a lawyer and an underwriter to take the company public.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[regard]] in a specified way.
#: ''he '''took''' the news badly
#* {{quote-book|year=1918|author={{w|W. B. Maxwell}}|chapter=22
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1097634W The Mirror and the Lamp]
|passage=Not unnaturally, &ldquo;Auntie&rdquo; '''took''' this communication in bad part. Thus outraged, she showed herself to be a bold as well as a furious virago.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To conclude or form in the mind (a decision or an opinion).
#: '''''took''' the decision to close its last remaining outlet''
#: '''''took''' a dim view of city officials''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[understand]], especially in a specified way.
#: ''Don't '''take''' my comments as an insult.''
#: ''if she '''took''' my meaning''
#* '''1853''', ''The American Journal of Science and Arts'', page 125:
#*: The author explained the theory of Dove, which, if we '''took''' him correctly, was, that the lustre of bodies and particularly the metallic lustre arose from the light coming from the one stratum of the superficial particles of bodies interfering on the eye {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[accept]] or be given (rightly or wrongly) or [[assume]] (especially as if by [[right]]).
#: ''He '''took''' all the credit for the project, although he had done almost none of the work.''
#: ''She '''took''' the blame, in the public's eyes, although the debacle was more her husband's fault than her own.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[believe]], to [[accept]] the statements of.
#: '''''take''' her word for it'', '''''take''' him at his word''
#* {{circa|1674-1718}} {{w|Nicholas Rowe (writer)|Nicholas Rowe}}:
#*: I '''take''' thee at thy word.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[asume]] or [[suppose]]; to [[reckon]]; to [[regard]] or [[consider]].
#: ''I '''take''' it from her comments she won't be there.''
#: ''I '''took''' him to be a person of honor.'' / {{ux|en|Do you '''take''' me for (''or:'' take me to be) a fool?}} / ''Looking at him as he came into the room, I '''took''' him for his father.'' / ''He was often '''taken''' to be a man of means.''
#* '''1950''', Edwin Basil Redlich, ''The early traditions of Genesis'', page 108:
#*: The dimensions of the ark, if we '''take''' a cubit to be equal to 15 feet, {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To draw, derive or [[deduce]] (a meaning from something).
#: {{ux|en|I'm not sure what moral to '''take''' from that story.}}
#* {{circa|1630-1694}}, {{w|John Tillotson}}, Sermon V, ''The Excellency of the Christian Religion'':
#*: And the firm belief of a future Judgment, which shall render to every man according to his deeds, if it be well consider'd, is to a reasonable nature the most forcible motive of all other to a good life; because it is taken from the consideration of the greatest and most lasting happiness and misery that human nature is capable of.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[derive]] (as a title), to [[obtain]] from a [[source]].
#: As I Lay Dying '''''takes''' its title from Book XI of Homer's'' Odyssey
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[catch]] or [[contract]] (an illness, etc).
#: '''''took''' ill''; '''''took''' a chill''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To come upon or [[catch]] (in a particular state or situation).
#* {{quote-book|year=1963|author={{w|Margery Allingham}}|title={{w|The China Governess}}
|chapter=20|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL2004261W
|passage=The story struck the depressingly familiar note with which true stories ring in the tried ears of experienced policemen.{{...}}The second note, the high alarum, not so familiar and always important since it indicates the paramount sin in Man's private calendar, '''took''' most of them by surprise although they had been well prepared.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[captivate]] or [[charm]]; to gain or secure the interest or affection of.
#: '''''took''' her fancy''; '''''took''' her attention''
#* {{w|Bible}}, {{w|Book of Proverbs|Proverbs}} vi.25:
#*: Neither let her '''take''' thee with her eyelids.
#* {{w|William Wake}} (1657-1737)
#*: Cleombroutus was so '''taken''' with this prospect, that he had no patience.
#* {{w|Thomas Moore}} (1779-1852)
#*: I know not why, but there was a something in those half-seen features, &mdash; a charm in the very shadow that hung over their imagined beauty, &mdash; which '''took''' me more than all the outshining loveliness of her companions.
# {{lb|en|transitive|of cloth, paper, etc}} To [[absorb]] or be [[impregnate]]d by (dye, ink, etc); to be susceptible to being treated by (polish, etc).
#: ''cloth that '''takes''' dye well''; ''paper that '''takes''' ink''; ''the leather that '''takes''' a certain kind of polish''
# {{lb|en|transitive|of a|ship}} To [[let in]] (water).
#* '''1972''', Anne and Robert Sinai, ''Israel & the Arabs: prelude to the Jewish state'', page 107:
#*: The ship was '''taking''' seawater in 4 places, and the passengers had been without fresh water {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[require]].
#: ''it '''takes''' a while to get used to the smell''
#: {{ux|en|Looks like it's gonna '''take''' a taller person to get that down. &emsp; Finishing this on schedule will '''take''' a lot of overtime.}}
#* '''1920''', ''China Monthly Review'' 15, page 357:
#*: If the summary of the Tientsin society is accurate, a famine population of more than 14,000,000 is already bad enough. If it '''takes''' five dollars to keep one of them alive, {{...}}
#* '''2009''', ''Living It Out'' (ISBN 1853119997):
#*: While it '''takes''' courage to come out, the acceptance of parents and other family members can really help the person coming out to accept themselves.
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-08-31|volume=408|issue=8851|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/http://www.economist.com/news/finance-and-economics/21584360-new-type-market-crash-proliferates-code-blue Code blue]
|passage=Time was it '''took''' a war to close a financial exchange. Now all it needs is a glitch in technology. On August 26th trading on Eurex, the main German derivatives exchange, opened as usual; 20 minutes later it shut down for about an hour. Four days earlier the shares of every company listed on <small>NASDAQ</small>, an American stock exchange, ceased trading for three hours.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[proceed]] to fill.
#: ''He '''took''' a seat in the front row.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fill]], to use up (time or space).
#: ''hunting that whale '''takes''' most of his free time''; ''his collection '''takes''' a lot of space''
#: {{ux|en|The trip will '''take''' about ten minutes.}}<!--this can also be interpreted as the "require" sense!-->
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[avail]] oneself of.
#: ''he '''took''' that opportunity to leave France''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[perform]], to [[do]].
#: '''''take''' a walk''; '''''take''' action/steps/measures to fight drug abuse''; '''''take''' a trip''; '''''take''' aim''
#: {{ux|en|The kick is '''taken''' from where the foul occurred.&emsp; {{nowrap|Pirès ran in to '''take''' the kick.}}&emsp; {{nowrap|The throw-in is '''taken''' from the point}} {{nowrap|where the ball crossed the touch-line.}}}}
#* {{RQ:WBsnt IvryGt|III}}
#*: To such men as Mr. Hellyer, who every night take much strong drink, and on no occasion whatever '''take''' any exercise, sixty is the grand climacteric. He was, a year ago, just fifty-nine. Alas! he has not even reached his grand climacteric. Already he is gone. He was cut off by pneumonia, or apoplexy, last Christmas.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} ''To assume or perform (a form or role).''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[assume]] (a form).
##: '''''took''' the form of a duck'', '''''took''' shape'', ''a god '''taking''' the likeness of a bird''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[perform]] (a role).
##: '''''take''' the part of the villain / hero''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[assume]] and [[undertake]] the duties of (a job, an office, etc).
##: '''''take''' office''; '''''take''' the throne''
##* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-08-10|volume=408|issue=8848|magazine={{w|The Economist}}|author=Schumpeter
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/business/21583242-businesspeople-have-become-too-influential-government-cronies-and-capitols Cronies and capitols]
|passage=Policing the relationship between government and business in a free society is difficult. Businesspeople have every right to lobby governments, and civil servants to '''take''' jobs in the private sector.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To bind oneself by.
#: ''he '''took''' the oath of office last night''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To move into.
#: ''the witness '''took''' the stand''; ''the next team '''took''' the field''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[go]] into, through or along.
#: ''go down two blocks and '''take''' the next left''; '''''take''' the path of least resistance''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To have or take recourse to.
#: '''''take''' cover / shelter / refuge''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[ascertain]] or [[determine]] by [[measurement]], [[examination]] or [[inquiry]].
#: '''''take''' her pulse / temperature / blood pressure''; '''''take''' a census''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To write down; to get in, or as if in, writing.
#: ''he '''took''' a mental inventory of his supplies''; ''she '''took''' careful notes''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[make]] (a photograph or film or other reproduction of something).
#: ''she '''took''' a video of their encounter'' ; ''could you '''take''' a picture of us?''; ''the police '''took''' his fingerprints''
# {{lb|en|transitive|dated}} To take a picture, photograph, etc of (a person, scene, etc).
#: ''The photographer will '''take''' you sitting down.''
#: ''to '''take''' a group / a scene''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[obtain]] [[money]] from, especially by [[swindling]].
#: '''''took''' me for ten grand''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[apply]] oneself to the [[study]] of, now chiefly by enrolling in a class or course.
#: ''as a child, she '''took''' ballet''
#: {{ux|en|I plan to '''take''' math, physics, literature and flower arrangement this semester.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To deal with.
#: '''''take''' matters as they arise''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[consider]] in a particular way, or to consider as an example.
#: {{ux|en|I've had a lot of problems recently: '''take''' last Monday, for example. My car broke down on the way to work. Then ... etc.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|baseball}} To decline to swing at (a pitched ball); to refrain from hitting at, and allow to pass.
#: {{ux|en|He’ll probably '''take''' this one.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|grammar}} To have an be used with (a certain grammatical form, etc).
#: ''This verb '''takes''' the dative; that verb '''takes''' the genitive.''<!-- would "the adjective takes the ending '-er' in the nominative" also be this senses? -->
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To get or accept (things) into one's possession.
#: ''He just '''takes''' and '''takes''', he never gives.''
## {{lb|en|intransitive|legal}} To receive property by law (e.g. as an heir).
##* '''1832''', ''Lodge v Simonton'', in ''Reports of Cases Adjudged in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania'', page 442:
##*: There was no intestacy, and they did not '''take''' under the will as heirs, {{...}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|of ink, dye, etc}} ''To engage, take hold or have effect.''
## {{lb|en|intransitive|of ink, dye, etc}} To adhere or be absorbed properly.
##: ''the dye didn't '''take'''''
## {{lb|en|intransitive|of a|plant, etc}} To begin to grow after being grafted or planted.
##: ''not all grafts '''take'''''
##: {{ux|en|I started some tomato seeds last spring, but they didn't '''take'''.}}
## {{lb|en|intransitive|of a|mechanical device}} To catch; to engage.
##* '''2009''', Sheldon Russell, ''The Yard Dog: A Mystery'', page 210:
##*: At the depot, Hook climbed out, slamming the door twice before the latch '''took'''.
## {{lb|en|intransitive|possibly|dated}} To win acceptance, favor or favorable reception; to charm people.
##* {{circa|1672-1719}} {{w|Joseph Addison}}:
##*: Each wit may praise it for his own dear sake, / And hint he writ it, if the thing should '''take'''.
## {{lb|en|intransitive}} To have the intended effect.
##* '''1967''', Richard Martin Stern, ''The Kessler Legacy'', page 103:
##*: "When I was young," I said, "I was vaccinated with religion, but the vaccination didn't '''take'''."
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become; to be affected in a specified way.
#: {{ux|en|They '''took''' ill within 3 hours.&emsp; She '''took''' sick with the flu.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|possibly|dated}} To be able to be accurately or beautifully photographed.
#* '''1881''', Jessie Fothergill, ''Kith and Kin'', in ''The Eclectic Magazine'', page 529:
#*: "Photographs never do give anything but a pale imitation, you know, but the likenesses, as likenesses, are good. She ‘'''takes''' well’, as they say, and those were done lately."
# {{lb|en|intransitive|dialectal|proscribed}}<ref>'''1970''', Harry Shaw, ''Errors in English and ways to correct them'', page 93: In the sentence, "He took and beat the horse unmercifully," took and should be omitted entirely.</ref> {{n-g|An intensifier.}}
#* '''2012''', Max Brand, ''Silvertip's Trap'' (ISBN 1440549834):
#*: I '''took''' and beat the devil out of him.
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To [[deliver]], [[give]] (something) to (someone).<!--this is a contranym!-->
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|15.11|2|XIII|xj}}:
#*: for thy loue I haue lefte my countrey / And sythe ye shalle departe oute of this world / leue me somme token of yours that I may thynke on you / Ioseph said that wille I doo ful gladly / Now brynge me your sheld that I '''toke''' yow whanne ye went in to bataille ageynst kyng Tolleme<!--For thy love I have left my country, and sith / ye shall depart out of this world, leave me some token of / yours that I may think on you.  Joseph said:  That will / I do full gladly; now bring me your shield that I took / you when ye went into battle against King Tolleme.-->
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', {{w|Gospel of Matthew|Matthew}} 22.19:
#*: Jesus perceaved there wylynes, and sayde: Why tempte ye me ye ypocrytes? lett me se the tribute money. And they '''toke''' hym a peny.<!-- But Jesus, knowing their evil intent, said, “You hypocrites, why are you trying to trap me? Show me the coin used for paying the tax.” They brought him a denarius, --><!-- -->
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete|outside|dialects|and|slang}} To give or deliver (a blow, to someone); to strike or hit.
#: ''He '''took''' me a blow on the head.''

====Usage notes====
In a few informal [[sociolect]]s, {{term|took}} is sometimes replaced by the [[proscribed]] form {{term|taked}}.

====Quotations====
* '''1611''' — {{w|King James Version of the Bible}}, ''[[s:Bible (King James)/Luke|Luke]] 1:1''
*: Forasmuch as many have '''taken''' in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us{{...}}
* {{w|Francis Bacon}} (1561-1626)
*: When flame '''taketh''' and openeth, it giveth a noise.
* {{w|John Dryden}} (1631-1700)<!--{{lb|en|dated}} To form a likeness of; to copy; to depict. ???-->
*: Beauty alone could beauty '''take''' so right.
* {{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=2
|passage=Here was my chance. I '''took''' the old man aside, and two or three glasses of Old Crow launched him into reminiscence.}}
* '''1973''', Albert J. Reiss, ''The Police and the Public'', page 44:
*: A lot of officers when they knock off a still will '''take''' an axe to the barrels. 

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to grasp with the hands}} [[grab]], [[grasp]], [[grip]]
* {{sense|to get into one's possession}} [[confiscate]], [[seize]]
* {{sense|military: to gain a position by force}} [[capture]], [[conquer]], [[seize]]
* {{sense|to have sex with}} [[have]]
* [[get]]
* [[ingest]]
* [[receive]]
* [[swallow]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|to accept}} [[give]]
* {{sense|to carry}} [[bring]]
* [[drop]]

====Derived terms====
{{xsee|Appendix:Collocations of do, have, make, and take}}
<!--NOTE: do not add nouns derived from phrasal verbs here; eg, "take-over"/"takeover" is from "to take over" and should therefore be listed under "take over"-->
<!--"for the taking" is listed under "taking"-->
<!--"mickey-take" is derived from "take the mickey"-->
<!--"piss-take" is derived from "take the piss"-->
{{rel-top4|Terms derived from ''take'' (verb)}}
* [[foretake]]
* [[mistake]]
* [[out-take]]
* [[overtake]]
* [[take aback]]
* [[take a bath]]
* [[take a bite]]
* [[take a bow]]
* [[take a breather]]
* [[take a chance]]
* [[take a chill pill]]
* [[take a dive]]
* [[take a dump]]
* [[take a gamble]]
* [[take a look]]
<!--* [[take a moment]]--><!--as in "I'd like to take a moment to compose myself"--><!--disagree. SoP take + time-->
<!--* [[take a nap]] SoP-->
<!--* [[take a photo]] SoP-->
<!--* [[take a photograph]] SoP-->
* [[take a pew]]
* [[take a picture]]
* [[take a risk]]
* [[take a run at]]
<!--* [[take a shower]] SoP-->
* [[take a spill]]
* [[take a spin]]
* [[take a tumble]]
* [[take action]]
* [[take advantage]]
* [[take after]]
* [[take against]]
* [[take along]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[take amiss]]
* [[take apart]]
* [[take around]]
* [[take aside]]
* [[take away]]
<!--"take-away"/"takeaway" is derived from "take away"-->
* [[take back]]
* [[take charge]]
* [[take comfort]]<!--"from" or "in"-->
* [[take cover]]
* [[take down]]
<!--"takedown" is derived from "take down"-->
* [[take exception to]]
* [[take five]]
* [[take flight]]
* [[take for a spin]]
* [[take for granted]]
* [[take form]]
* [[take guard]]
* [[take hold]]
* [[take-home pay]]
* [[take in]]
* [[take it as it comes]]
* [[take it away]] <!--Sam-->
* [[take it easy]]
* [[take it like a man]]
* [[take it on the chin]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[take it out on]]
<!--"take no prisoners" is listed under "take someone prisoner"-->
* [[take off the table]]
* [[take off]]
* [[take offence]]
* [[take offense]]
* [[take on]]
* [[take one's rest]]
* [[take one's time]]
* [[take oneself off]]
* [[take out]]
<!--"takeout" is derived from "take out"-->
<!--"takeout double" is derived from "takeout"-->
* [[take over]]
<!--"takeover" is derived from "take over"-->
* [[take part]]
* [[take place]]
* [[take pleasure]]
* [[take pride]]
* [[take prisoner|take someone prisoner]]
* [[take round]]
* [[take shape]]
* [[take sides]]
* [[take silk]]
* [[takest]] {{qualifier|“[[thou]]” form}}
* [[take stock]]
* [[take that]]
* [[take the biscuit]]
* [[take the cake]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[take the fall]]
* [[take the mick]]
* [[take the mickey]]
* [[take the piss]]
* [[take the trouble]]
* [[take the wrong way]]
* [[take through]]
* [[take time]]
* [[take to extremes]]
* [[take to heart]]
* [[take to one side]]
* [[take to one's bed]]
* [[take to one's heels]]
* [[take to]]
* [[take to the streets]]
* [[take turns]]
* [[take umbrage]]
* [[take up for]]
* [[take up with]]
* [[take up]]
* [[take upon]]
* [[take vows]]
* [[take with a pinch of salt]]
* [[wrongtake]]
* [[you can't take it with you]]
{{rel-bottom}}
<!--"take your time": this is given as "take one's time" above-->
* ''see also'' '''[[taken]]''' ''and'' '''[[taking]]'''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to grab with the hands}}
* Abkhaz: {{t|ab|агара|sc=Cyrl}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|neem}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|merr}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اخذ|alt=أَخَذَ|tr=ʾáxaḏa}} imperfect: {{t|ar|يأخذ|tr=yaʾxuḏu}}, {{t|ar|مَسَكَ|tr=másaka|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|خد|tr=xad|sc=Arab}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: {{t|syc|ܐܚܕ|tr=ʼeħað|sc=Syrc}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վերցնել}}, {{t+|hy|առնել}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|ljeau}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|almaq}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|браць|impf}}, {{t|be|ўзяць}}, {{t|be|узя́ць|pf}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|গ্রহণ করা|tr=grôhan kôra|sc=Beng}}, {{t+|bn|নেওয়া|tr=neoẇa|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|взе́мам}}, {{t+|bg|взи́мам|impf}}, {{t+|bg|взе́ма|pf}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ယူ|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|agafar}}, {{t+|ca|prendre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|拿|tr=ná|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|取|tr=qǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|brát|impf}}, {{t+|cs|vzít|pf}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|levur}}, {{t|dlm|prendar}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|tage}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nemen}}, {{t+|nl|pakken}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|võtma}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|cjapâ}}, {{t|fur|čhapâ}}, {{t|fur|cjoli}}, {{t|fur|čholi}}, {{t|fur|piâ}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|აღება|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}, {{t+|de|greifen}}
*: Alemannic German: {{t|gsw|nää}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παίρνω|sc=Grek}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|αἱρέω|sc=polytonic}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|pran}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|lawe}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|לָקַח|tr=lakákh|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|लेना|tr=lenā}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|taka}}, {{t+|is|nema}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mengambil}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|prender}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|tóg}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prendere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|取る|tr=とる, toru}}, {{t+|ja|つかむ|tr=つかむ, tsukamu}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|алу|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|យក|tr=yɔɔk|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|잡다|sc=Hang}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|алуу|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ເອົາ|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|jimt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}, {{t|la|prehendo}}, {{t+|la|sumo}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ņemt}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|imti}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|huelen}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|зема}}, {{t|mk|грабнува|sc=Cyrl}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ħa}}
* Mauritian Creole: {{t|mfe|pran}}
* Mazanderani: {{t|mzn|هائیتن|tr=hâïten|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|авах|sc=Cyrl}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|piglià}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|usiha}}, {{t|zdj|usika}}
* North Frisian: {{t|frr|naame}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}, {{t|no|gripe}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|бьрати|impf|sc=Cyrs}}
* Ossetian: {{t|os|исын|sc=Cyrl}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|گرفتن|tr=gereftan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|brać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|wziąć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}, {{t+|pt|agarrar}}, {{t+|pt|pegar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|lua}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|prender}}, {{t|rm|piglier}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}, {{t+|ru|хвата́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|схвати́ть|pf}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|leai}}, {{t|sc|leare}}, {{t|sc|lebare}}, {{t|sc|levare}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|tak}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|gabh}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|узети}}, {{t|sh|зграбити}}, {{t|sh|шчепати}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|uzeti}}, {{t+|sh|zgrabiti}}, {{t+|sh|ščepati}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|අරගන්නවා|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|brať|impf}}, {{t|sk|vziať|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|brati|impf}}, {{t+|sl|vzeti|pf}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|braś|impf}}, {{t|dsb|wześ|pf}}
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|brać|impf}}, {{t|hsb|wzać|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}, {{t+|es|coger}}, {{t+|es|prender}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fatta}}, {{t+|sv|gripa}}, {{t+|sv|ta}}, {{t+|sv|ta}} {{t+|sv|tag}} i, {{t+|sv|hålla}} sig i
* Tajik: {{t|tg|гирифтан|sc=Cyrl}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|எடு|sc=Taml}}
* Tatar: {{t+|tt|алырга|sc=Cyrl}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เอา|tr=ao}}, {{t|th|หยิบ|tr=yìp}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|almak}}, {{t+|tr|tutmak}}
* Turkmen: {{t+|tk|almak}}, {{t|tk|tutmak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|бра́ти|impf}}, {{t+|uk|взя́ти|pf}}, {{t+|uk|узя́ти|pf|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|لینا|tr=lenā}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|olmoq}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|ciapar}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nắm}}, {{t+|vi|lấy}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|mynd â}}, {{t+|cy|dwyn}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|נעמען|tr=nemen|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to grab and move to oneself}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|merr}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اخذ|alt=أَخَذَ|tr=ʾáxaḏa}} imperfect: {{t|ar|يأخذ|tr=yaʾxuḏu}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վերցնել}}
* Bengali: {{t+|bn|নেওয়া|tr=neoa|sc=Beng}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|prendre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|拿|tr=ná|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|prendar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nemen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|preni}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|cjapâ}}, {{t|fur|cjoli}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παίρνω|sc=Grek}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|αἱρέω|sc=polytonic}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|lawe}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vesz}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|prender}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|tóg}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|運ぶ|tr=hakobu}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|алу|sc=Cyrl}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|잡다|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|зема|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|присвојува|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|brać}}, {{t+|pl|wziąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|lua}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|tak}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|gabh}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|uzeti}}, {{t+|sh|zgrabiti}}, {{t+|sh|ščepati}}, {{t+|sh|prigrliti}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vzeti}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|braś|impf}}, {{t|dsb|wześ|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}, {{t+|sv|föra}} {{t+|sv|fram}} {{t+|sv|till}} {{t+|sv|sig}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తీసుకొను|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|almak}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|ciapar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to get into one's possession}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վերցնել}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|prendre}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nemen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|preni}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παίρνω|sc=Grek}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|αἱρέω|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|לקח|m|tr=lakach}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|prender}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|取る|tr=とる, toru}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|зема|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|prenda}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|brać}}, {{t+|pl|wziąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}
* Rapa Nui: {{t|rap|ma'u}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|gabh}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|uzeti}}, {{t+|sh|prisvojiti}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vzeti}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|braś|impf}}, {{t|dsb|wześ|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}, {{t+|sv|få}} {{t+|sv|tag}} {{t+|sv|på}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తీసుకొను|sc=Telu}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|נעמען|tr=nemen|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to accept}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ընդունել}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}, {{t+|fi|hyväksyä}}
* German: {{t+|de|annehmen}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|קיבל|m|tr=kibel}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|受け付ける|tr=uketsukeru}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}, {{t+|la|sumo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|прифаќа|sc=Cyrl}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aceitar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}, {{t+|ru|принима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приня́ть|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|prihvatiti}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kabul etmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: to gain a position by force}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վերցնել}}, {{t+|hy|առնել}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|prendre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|佔據|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|占据|tr=zhànjù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|dobýt}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|einnehmen}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|תפס|m|tr=tafas}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|占拠|tr=せんきょする, senkyo suru|alt=占拠する}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|зазема|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zawładnąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}, {{t+|ru|захва́тывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|захвати́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|занима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|заня́ть|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|osvojiti}}, {{t+|sh|zadobiti}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|zavzeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|erövra}}, {{t+|sv|ta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have sex with}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|violar}}, {{t+|ca|forçar}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}} ({{t|fi|väkisin}})
* French: {{qualifier|[[de]] [[force]]}} {{t+|fr|prendre}}, {{t+|fr|forcer}}, {{t+|fr|violer}}
* German: ([[mit]] [[Gewalt]]) {{t+|de|nehmen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|襲う|tr=osou}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|voldta}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|brać}}, {{t+|pl|wziąć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|violar}}, {{t+|pt|violentar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vzeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|violar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to carry}}
* Bakhtiari: {{t|bqi|بردن|tr=borden|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|portar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|攜帶|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|携带|tr=xiédài, xīdài|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|攜|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|携|tr=xié|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|帶|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|带|tr=dài|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|運|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|运|tr=yùn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viedä}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}, {{t+|de|tragen}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|נשא|m|tr=nasa}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|運ぶ|tr=はこぶ, hakobu}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|yevar|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|fero}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|bringe}}
* Old Portuguese: {{t|roa-opt|levar}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|بردن|tr=bordan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|levar}}, {{t+|pt|carregar}}
* Romanian: a {{t+|ro|lua}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}, {{t+|ru|забира́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|забра́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|нести́|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|uzeti}}, {{t+|sh|ponijeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|llevar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|götürmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to choose}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|agafar}}, {{t+|ca|escollir}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}, {{t+|fi|valita}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παίρνω|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|διαλέγω|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בחר|m|tr=bachar}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|選ぶ|tr=erabu}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|برداشتن|tr=bardâštan|sc=fa-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wybrać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}, {{t+|pt|escolher}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|взять|pf}}, {{t+|ru|выбира́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́брать|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|odabrati}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vzeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}, {{t+|sv|välja}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|seçmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to support or carry without failing or breaking}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|unést}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kestää}}
* German: {{t+|de|aushalten}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|壊さずに運ぶ|tr=kowasazu ni hakobu}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aguentar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|uzdržati}}, {{t|sh|izdržati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|soportar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hålla}}, {{t+|sv|ta}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|almak}}, {{t+|tr|taşımak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to endure}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vydržet}}, {{t|cs|vystát}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sietää}}, {{t+|fi|kestää}}
* German: {{t+|de|aushalten}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|我慢|tr=がまんする, gaman suru|alt=我慢する}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|tåle}}, {{t+|no|ta}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aguentar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выде́рживать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́держать|pf}}, {{t+|ru|выноси́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́нести|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|izdržati}}, {{t+|sh|proživjeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|soportar}}, {{t+|es|aguantar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}, {{t+|sv|tåla}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tahammül etmek}}, {{t+|tr|katlanmak}}, {{t+|tr|dayanmak}}, {{t+|tr|dayanmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to ingest medicine}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|prendre}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vzít}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|nehmen}}
* Japanese: {{sense|take via mouth}} {{qualifier|general}} {{t+|ja|飲む|tr=nomu}}, {{qualifier|formal}} {{t|ja|摂取する|tr=sesshu suru}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ta}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|brać}}, {{t+|pl|przyjmować}}, {{t|pl|zażywać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|принима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приня́ть|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|uzeti}}, {{t+|sh|konzumirati}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vzeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to assume or interpret to be}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ter}}, {{t+|pt|tomar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|принима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|приня́ть|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consider in a particular way}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vesz}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to last or expend [an amount of time]}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اِسْتَغْرَقَ|tr=istaġraqa}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|需要|tr=xūyào|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kestää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|dauern}}, {{t+|de|nehmen}} {{qualifier|in Anspruch}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|נמשך|m|tr=nimshach}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|掛かる|tr=かかる, kakaru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|prendre}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|걸리다|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|capio}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|durar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|занима́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|заня́ть|pf|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|trajati}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sürmek}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|mất}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The or an act of taking.
#* '''1999''', ''Impacts of California sea lions and Pacific harbor seals [...]'' (published by the United States National Marine Fisheries Service), page 32:
#*: The 1994 Amendments address the incidental '''take''' of marine mammals in the course of commercial fishing, not the direct lethal '''take''' of pinnipeds for management purposes.
# Something that is taken; a [[haul]].
## Money that is taken in, proceeds, income; {{lb|en|in particular}} profits.<!-- also/especially "a [[bribe]], illegal [[payoff]] or unethical [[kickback]]"?-->
##: ''He wants half of the '''take''' if he helps with the job.''
##: ''The mayor is on the '''take'''.''
## The or a quantity of [[fish]], [[game]] animals or [[pelt]]s, etc which have been taken at one time; [[catch]].
# An [[interpretation]] or [[view]], [[opinion]] or [[assessment]]; [[perspective]].
#: ''What’s your '''take''' on this issue, Fred?''
# An [[approach]], a (distinct) [[treatment]].
#: ''a new '''take''' on a traditional dish''
# {{context|film|lang=en}} A scene recorded (filmed) at one time, without an interruption or break; a recording of such a scene.
#: ''It’s a '''take'''.''
#: ''Act seven, scene three, '''take''' two.''
# {{lb|en|music}} A recording of a musical performance made during an uninterrupted single recording period.
# A visible (facial) response to something, especially something unexpected; a facial gesture in response to an event.
#: ''did a double take and then a triple take''
#: ''I did a '''take''' when I saw the new car in the driveway.''
# {{lb|en|medicine}} An instance of [[successful]] [[inoculation]]/[[vaccination]].
# {{context|rugby|cricket|lang=en}} A [[catch]] of the ball (in cricket, especially one by the [[wicket-keeper]]).
# {{context|printing|lang=en}} The quantity or [[copy]] given to a [[compositor]] at one time.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''take'' (noun)}}
* [[double take]]
* [[give and take]]
<!--"mickey-take" is derived from "take the mickey"-->
<!--"piss-take" is derived from "take the piss"-->
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[on the take]]
* [[take two]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[take-or-pay]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of taking}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vzetí|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לקיחה|f|tr=lekicha}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|取得|tr=shutoku}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|земање|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|fangst|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|branie}}, {{t+|pl|wzięcie}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomada|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|uzimanje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tagande|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tutma}}, {{t+|tr|tutuş}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something that is taken}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vzaný|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|獲得|tr=kakutoku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|fangst|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|byte|n}}, {{t+|sv|fångst|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|profit}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zisk|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuotto}}, {{t+|fi|voitto}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|שלל|m|tr=shalal}}, {{t|he|רווח|m|tr=revach}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|利益|tr=rieki}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|добивка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|gevinst|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rendimento|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|dobīt|f}}, {{t+|sh|nagrada|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recompensa}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|intäkter|c-p}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kâr}}, {{t+|tr|kazanç}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interpretation or view}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|názor|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mielipide}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|見解|tr=kenkai}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|поглед|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ponto de vista|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|pogled|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|punto de vista}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|synpunkt|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tepki}}, {{t+|tr|görüş}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|film: attempt to record a scene}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|presa}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|otto}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|テイク|tr=teiku}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|opptak|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tomada|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дубль|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|toma}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tagning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|catch}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|mottak|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Mandarin: {{t-check|cmn|拿|tr=ná|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|取|tr=qǔ|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|握|tr=wò|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|接受|tr=jiēshòu|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|应付|tr=yìngfù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|nemen}}
* Tagalog: {{t-check|tl|kunin}}
* German: {{t+check|de|nehmen}}
* Ido: {{t-check|io|prenar}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|ambil|alt=mengambil}} {{attention|id|2=was "[[ambil|mengambil]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}, {{t-check|id|pungut|alt=memungut}} {{attention|id|2=was "[[pungut|memungut]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{qualifier|2,5,9,10}} {{t-check|it|prendere}}, {{qualifier|1,4,6}} {{t-check|it|portare}}, {{qualifier|3, also ''to rape''}} {{t-check|it|violentare}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-check|sh|узети}} ([[uzeti]])
* Sicilian: {{qualifier|2,5,9,10}} {{t-check|scn|pigghiari}}
* Slovak: {{t-check|sk|vziať}}, {{t-check|sk|zobrať}}
* Turkish: {{qualifier|1,2,7}} {{t-check|tr|almak}}, {{qualifier|4}} {{t-check|tr|yakalamak}}, {{qualifier|5}} {{t-check|tr|anlamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
''These need to be checked and put in the section for the noun or verb senses as appropriate''
* [[intake]]
* [[outtake]]
<!--"slow on the uptake" is derived from "uptake"-->
* [[spit take]]
* [[takings]], [[taking]]
* [[uptake]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|back|under|same|135|take|last|here|thought}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Kate#English|Kate]]
* [[teak#English|teak]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English contranyms]]
----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|たけ}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Verb===
{{nn-verb-irreg|tek|tok|teke}}

# {{alternative form of|taka|lang=nn}}

----

==Pilagá==

===Verb===
{{head|plg|verb}}

# [[want]]
#: ''se-'''take''''' — ''I '''want'''''

===References===
* '''2001''', Alejandra Vidal, quoted in ''Subordination in Native South-American Languages''

[[ang:take]]
[[ar:take]]
[[az:take]]
[[br:take]]
[[cs:take]]
[[cy:take]]
[[de:take]]
[[et:take]]
[[el:take]]
[[es:take]]
[[eu:take]]
[[fa:take]]
[[fr:take]]
[[gl:take]]
[[ko:take]]
[[hy:take]]
[[hr:take]]
[[io:take]]
[[it:take]]
[[kn:take]]
[[ka:take]]
[[kk:take]]
[[ku:take]]
[[lo:take]]
[[la:take]]
[[lv:take]]
[[lt:take]]
[[li:take]]
[[hu:take]]
[[mg:take]]
[[ml:take]]
[[my:take]]
[[nl:take]]
[[ja:take]]
[[no:take]]
[[oc:take]]
[[uz:take]]
[[ps:take]]
[[pl:take]]
[[pt:take]]
[[ro:take]]
[[ru:take]]
[[sm:take]]
[[sq:take]]
[[simple:take]]
[[fi:take]]
[[sv:take]]
[[tl:take]]
[[ta:take]]
[[te:take]]
[[th:take]]
[[chr:take]]
[[tr:take]]
[[uk:take]]
[[vi:take]]
[[wa:take]]
[[zh:take]]