==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|talks down|talking down|talked down}}

# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} To [[negotiate]] a [[lower]] price.
#: ''If he offers a very high price, see if you can '''talk''' him '''down''' before you agree to anything.
# {{rfd-sense}} {{context|flying|lang=en}} To tell an airplane passenger (who has had no flight training) step by step by two-way radio how to land the plane, e.g. if its pilot has become incapacitated while flying.
#: ''The Cessna's pilot had a heart attack while flying, and his non-flying passenger had to be talked down by Air Traffic Control.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To convince a person to cease a drastic action or response, such as a suicide attempt or act of rage.
#* 2007, [https://books.google.com/books?id=KmR6dmWMWeMC&pg=PT77&dq=talked+him+down&hl=en&sa=X&ei=cg2eVfTYDIzy-AGBvZC4BQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBQ ''Deep Storm''] by Lincoln Child
#*: '''Talk him down''', the rule book went. Calm him, get him secured. Easier said than done. Crane had '''talked down''' a would-be jumper standing on a support cable of the George Washington Bridge.
#* [https://books.google.com/books?id=P0A3SykTK6UC&pg=PA212&dq=talked+him+down&hl=en&sa=X&ei=MQ6eVaDdEsXAtQW8lLngBQ&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBjgK ''Shelby: A Great Love''] by CJ Raines
#*: And that guy that '''talked him down''' told us what happen. It's kidnapping, attempted assault.

====See also====
* [[talk down to]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|negotiate}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marchander}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|targować się|impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|patronize}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre de haut}}
* Italian: {{t|it|degnarsi}}, {{t|it|trattare dall'alto in basso}}, {{t|it|trattare con arroganza}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|patrzeć z góry|impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (down)]]

[[et:talk down]]
[[fr:talk down]]
[[kn:talk down]]
[[my:talk down]]