{{also|Appendix:Variations of "tan"}}
==Translingual==
{{wikipedia}}

===Symbol===
'''tan'''

# {{mathematics|lang=mul}} A [[symbol]] of the [[trigonometric function]] [[tangent]].

----

==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/tæn/}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|fr}} {{term|tan|lang=fr}} 'tanbark', from {{etyl|cel-gau}} ''tanno'' 'live oak' (compare {{etyl|br|-}} ''tann'' 'red oak', {{etyl|oco|-}} ''tannen''), from {{proto|Indo-European|dhonu}} 'fir' (compare {{etyl|hit|-}} {{term|tanau}} 'fir', {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|femur}}, gen. ''feminis'' 'thigh', {{etyl|de|-}} ''Tann'' 'woods', ''Tanne'' 'fir', Albanian ''thanë'' 'cranberry shrub',  Ancient Greek ''thámnos'' 'thicket', {{etyl|ae|-}} ''θanwarə'', gen. ''θanwanō'' 'bow', Sanskrit ''dhánus'', gen. ''dhánvanus'' 'bow').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A yellowish-brown [[color|colour]].
#: {{color panel|D2B48C}}
# A darkening of the [[skin]] resulting from exposure to sunlight or similar light sources.
#: ''She still has a '''tan''' from her vacation in Mexico.''
# The [[bark]] of an [[oak]] or other [[tree]] from which tannic acid is obtained.
#* '''1848''', John Hannett, ''Bibliopegia, or, The Art of Bookbinding in all its branches'', page 65:
#*: In two pints of water boil one ounce of '''tan''', and a like portion of nutgall till reduced to a pint.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[catch a tan]]
* [[tan line]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|colour}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t|cmn|棕黄色|tr=zōnghuángsè|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|棕褐色|tr=zōnghèsè|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: [[gebruinde kleur]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kellanruskea}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|krem|xs=Indonesian}}
* Korean: [[갈색]] ([[褐色]], galsaeg, -k)
* Russian: [[бежевый]] (цвет) (béževyj tsvet) {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bronce|m}}, {{t+|es|tostado}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|darkening of skin}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t|cmn|曬成褐色|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|晒成褐色|tr=shàichénghèsè|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|曬黑|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|晒黑|tr=shàihēi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|opálení|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rusketus}}
* French: [[bronzage]] {{m}}, [[hâle]] {{m}} ''(aspirated h)''
* German: [[Bräune]] {{f}}, [[Sonnenbräune]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|lebarnulás}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbronzatura|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[日に焼ける]] (ひにやける, hiniyakeru)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|opalenizna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|bronzeado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|загар|m|tr=zagár}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|put|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bronceado|m}}, {{t+|es|tostado}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|solbränna|c}}
* Ukrainian: [[засмага]] (zasmága {{f}}), [[смага]] (smága, smagá) {{f}}, [[загар]] (zagár) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bark of tree}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|parkki}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|cser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: [[corteza]] de [[roble]]; corteza tánica
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[тен]] (ten) {{m}}
<!--* {{subst:User:MglovesfunBot/ttbc|de}}: [[Bräune]] {{f}}, no one uses [[Bräunung]], and [[Lohe]] is an archaic word for "fire" (which may still be used in leather making)-->
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[bronz]] {{n}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|tanner|tannest}}

# Of a yellowish-brown.
#: ''Mine is the white car parked next to the '''tan''' pickup truck.''
# Having dark skin as a result of exposure to the sun.
#: ''You’re looking very '''tan''' this week.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|colour}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حنطي|alt=حِنْطِيّ|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|قمحي اللون|alt=قَمْحِيُّ اللَّوْن|sc=Arab}}
* German: {{t|de|hellbraun}}, {{t|de|loh}}, {{t|de|lohfarben}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|خرمائی روشن|tr=Khormayi-ye roshan|sc=fa-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bronce|m}}, {{t+|es|tostado}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|bronz}}, {{t|tr|taba rengi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dark skin}}
* Dutch: [[gebruind]], [[gebruinde]]
* Finnish: [[ruskettunut]]
* French: {{t+|fr|hâlé}},  {{t+|fr|bronzé}}
* German: [[braun]], [[sonnengebräunt]]
* Korean: [[탄]] (tan)
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|برنزه|tr=bronze|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: [[загорелый]] (zagorélyj) {{m}}
* Spanish: [[bronceado]] (por el sol) {{m}},  {{t+|es|tostado}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|solbränd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[жълтокафяв]] (žâltokafjav) {{m}} (1), [[жълтокафява]] (žâltokafjava) {{f}} (1), [[жълтокафяво]] (žâltokafjavo) {{n}} (3)

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|tannen|lang=enm}}, from late {{etyl|ang}} {{term|tannian}} 'to tan a hide', from {{etyl|xno}} ''tanner'', from ''tan''. See above.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tan|n|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} To change to a tan colour due to exposure to the sun.
#: ''No matter how long I stay out in the sun, I never '''tan'''. though I do burn.''
# {{transitive}} To change an [[animal]] [[hide]] into [[leather]] by soaking it in [[tannic acid]].<ref>See [[w:Tanning|Wikipedia article on Tanning]].</ref> To work as a tanner.
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[spank]] or [[beat]].
#* '''1876''', [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''The Adventures of Tom Sawyer'', ch. 3:
#*: "Well, go 'long and play; but mind you get back some time in a week, or I'll '''tan''' you."

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to become tan due to exposure to sun}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zhnědnout}}, {{t|cs|opálit se}}
* Danish: blive {{t|da|brun}}
* Dutch: [[bruinen]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|brunigi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ruskettua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bronzer}}
* German: [[bräunen]]; in der Sonne [[baden]]
* Greek: {{t|el|μαυρίζω|tr=mavrízo}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|lebarnul}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|abbronzarsi}}
* Korean: [[타다]] (tada), [[그을다]] (geueulda)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sole}},  {{t-|no|brune}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bronzear}}
* Russian: [[загорать]] (zagorát’) {{impf}}, [[загореть]] (zagorét’) {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|broncearse}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sola}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yanmak}}, {{t|tr|bronzlaşmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to turn animal hide into leather}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|činit}}, {{t-|cs|vyčinit}}, {{t|cs|vydělávat}}, {{t-|cs|vydělat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|looien}}, {{t-|nl|leerlooien}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|parkita}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tanner}}
* German: {{t+|de|gerben}}, {{t-|de|walken}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|conciare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[무두질]]하다 (mudujil-hada)
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|gierwen}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|دباغی|tr=Dabbaghi|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|curtir}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|curtir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|garva}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[загарям]] (zagarjam) (1), [[щавя]] (štavja) (2)
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[zonnebaden]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[a se bronza]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[Black and Tan]]
* [[tan oak]]
* [[tan someone's hide]]
* [[tanbark]]
* [[tanner]]
* [[tannery]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[tannin]]
* [[tannic acid]]

=====See also=====
* [[Appendix:Colors]]

===Etymology 3===
From a [[Brythonic]] language; influenced in form by {{term|yan||one|lang=en}} in the same series.

====Numeral====
{{head|en|numeral}}

# {{dialect|rare}} The second [[cardinal number]] [[two]], formerly used in Celtic areas, especially Cumbria and parts of Yorkshire, for counting sheep, and stitches in knitting.<ref>See [[w:Yan_Tan_Tethera|Wikipedia article on Yan Tan Tethera]]</ref>

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[ANT#English|ANT]], [[Ant#English|Ant]], [[an't#English|an't]], [[ant#English|ant]], [[NAT#English|NAT]], [[Nat#English|Nat]], [[Nat.#English|Nat.]], [[nat#English|nat]], [[NTA#English|NTA]]

[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]
[[Category:en:Cardinal numbers]]

----

==Breton==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Celtic|teɸnet-|fire|lang=br}} (compare Old Irish {{term|teine|lang=sga}}, Welsh {{term|tân|lang=cy}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈtɑ̃ːn/|lang=br}}

===Noun===
{{br-noun|m|tanioù}}

# [[fire]]

----

==Catalan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|an|lang=ca}}

===Adverb===
{{ca-adv}}

# [[so]], [[such]]
# {{context|in comparisons|tan ... {{l|ca|com}}}} [[as]] ... as

====Related terms====
* {{l|ca|tant}}

----

==Cornish==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Celtic|teɸnet-|fire|lang=kw}} (compare {{etyl|sga|-}} {{term|teine|lang=sga}}, {{etyl|cy|-}} {{term|tân|lang=cy}}).

===Noun===
{{kw-noun|m|r}}

# [[fire]]

----

==Galician==

===Adverb===
{{gl-adv}}

# [[so]], [[as]] (in comparisons)

====Usage notes====
Usually paired with {{term|como|lang=gl}}, as ''tan''{{...}}''como''

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|ht}} {{term|temps||time, weather|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{head|ht|noun}}

# [[time]]
# [[weather]]

[[Category:ht:Weather|*]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
{{back-form|tanít|nodot=y}}, ''[[tanul]]'', etc. {{hu-langref}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈtɒn/|lang=hu}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ok}}

# [[doctrine]]
# [[science]] of, [[theory]], [[branch]] of [[instruction]]
# [[-logy]], [[-graphy]] (in compound words)
# Something [[education]]-[[related]] (in compounds)

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-ok|ta|n}}{{hu-pos-otok|tan||ai}}

====Derived terms====
{{top4}}
* [[alaktan]]
* [[állattan]]
* [[ásványtan]]
* [[barlangtan]]
* [[elektromosságtan]]
* [[élettan]]
* [[embertan]]
{{mid4}}
* [[fénytan]]
* [[földtan]]
* [[hittan]]
* [[hőtan]]
* [[közgazdaságtan]]
* [[mértan]]
* [[mozgástan]]
{{mid4}}
* [[névtan]]
* [[növénytan]]
* [[nyelvtan]]
* [[orvostan]]
* [[rendszertan]]
* [[számtan]]
* [[tananyag]]
* [[tanév]]
* [[tanfolyam]]
{{mid4}}
* [[tankönyv]]
* [[tanóra]]
* [[tanszék]]
* [[tantárgy]]
* [[tanterem]]
* [[tanterv]]
* [[tantestület]]
* [[víztan]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Hungarian three-letter words]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{rafsi of|tsani}}

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
'''tan'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|tān|lang=cmn|sc=Latn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|tán|lang=cmn|sc=Latn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|tǎn|lang=cmn|sc=Latn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|tàn|lang=cmn|sc=Latn}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From ''[[tanto]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|an|lang=es}}

===Adverb===
{{es-adv}}

# [[so]], [[as]]
#: ''Eres '''tan''' rico '''como''' te sientes.'' - "You are as rich as you feel."

====Usage notes====
Usually paired with {{term|como|lang=es}}: ''tan''{{...}}''como'' - "as {{...}} as"

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|tanı}}

# [[dawn]], [[twilight]]
#: ''O gece ''tan'' yeri ağırana kadar selâmettir.'' - "On that night, there is peace till ''twilight''."

----

==Welsh==

===Preposition===
'''tan'''

# [[until]]
# [[under]]
# [[while]]

====Usage notes====
* Triggers the [[soft mutation]] on any noun following.
* Not to be confused with [[tân]].

====Mutation====
{{cy-mut-t|an}}

[[Category:Welsh prepositions]]

[[ast:tan]]
[[br:tan]]
[[cy:tan]]
[[de:tan]]
[[et:tan]]
[[el:tan]]
[[es:tan]]
[[eo:tan]]
[[eu:tan]]
[[fa:tan]]
[[fr:tan]]
[[ko:tan]]
[[io:tan]]
[[id:tan]]
[[it:tan]]
[[kn:tan]]
[[ku:tan]]
[[lt:tan]]
[[hu:tan]]
[[mg:tan]]
[[ml:tan]]
[[nl:tan]]
[[ja:tan]]
[[no:tan]]
[[pl:tan]]
[[pt:tan]]
[[ru:tan]]
[[simple:tan]]
[[fi:tan]]
[[sv:tan]]
[[tl:tan]]
[[ta:tan]]
[[te:tan]]
[[tr:tan]]
[[vi:tan]]
[[vo:tan]]
[[wo:tan]]
[[zh:tan]]