{{wikipedia|dab=tap}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tæp/}}
* {{audio|en-us-tap.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æp}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|tæppa|lang=ang}} = {{etyl|osx}} ''*tappo'', from {{proto|Germanic|tappe}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A tapering cylindrical pin or [[peg]] used to stop the vent in a cask; a [[spigot]].
# A [[device]] used to [[dispense]] [[liquid]]s.
#: ''We don't have [[bottle]]d [[water]], you'll have to get it from the '''tap'''.''
# A [[device]] used to [[cut]] an [[internal]] [[screw]] [[thread]].  (External screw threads are cut with a [[die]].)
#: ''We drilled a hole and then cut the threads with the proper '''tap''' to match the valve's thread.''
# A [[connection]] made to an electrical or fluid conductor without breaking it.
#: ''The system was barely keeping pressure due to all of the ill advised '''taps''' along its length.''
# An interception of communication with authority.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[taproom]]
* [[taproot]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|device to dispense liquid}} [[faucet]], [[handle]], [[spigot]], [[spout]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|spigot}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|tap|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tappi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csap}},  {{t+|hu|vízcsap}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пробка|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=próbka}}, {{t|ru|затычка|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=zatýčka}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tapón|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device to dispense liquid}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|aixeta|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kohout|m}},  {{t+|cs|kohoutek|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vandhane|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kraan|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|krano|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hana}}
* French: {{t+|fr|robinet|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hahn|m}}, {{t+|de|Kran|m}}, {{t+|de|Zapfen|m}}, {{t|de|Spund|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ברז|m|tr=berez}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csap}},  {{t+|hu|vízcsap}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rubinetto|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|čiaupas|m|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|славина|f|tr=slávina}},  {{t|mk|чешма|f|tr=čéšma}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kran}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kran|m}}, {{t+|pl|zawór|m}}, {{t+|pl|kurek|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|кран|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=kran}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|torneira|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pipa|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|grifo|m}}, {{t+|es|llave|f}}, {{t+|es|canilla|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mfereji|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kran}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device to cut internal threads}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|závitník|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kierteitystappi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taraud|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Gewindeschneider|m}}
* Polish: [[gwintownik]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|метчик|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=métčik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|connection of a system to the main distribution}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|haaroitus}}, [[ylimääräinen]] [[liitos]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zawór główny|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|отвод|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=otvód}}, {{t|ru|ответвление|n|sc=Cyrl|tr=otvetvlénije}}, {{t|ru|отпайка|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=otpájka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|hu}}: [[csap]]
* {{ttbc|ku}}: [[zembere]] {{f}}, [[henef]] {{f}}, [[mislik]] {{f}}, [[henefî]] {{f}}, [[henîfe]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: [[kran]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[musluk]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|tæppian|lang=ang}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tapp|ing}}

# To furnish with taps.
# To [[draw]] off [[liquid]] from a [[vessel]].
#: ''He '''tapped''' a new barrel of beer.''
# To [[place]] a [[listen]]ing or [[record]]ing device on a [[telephone]] or [[wired connection]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#: ''They can't '''tap''' the phone without a [[warrant]].''
# To [[intercept]] a [[communication]] without [[authority]].
#: ''He was known to '''tap''' [[cable television]]''
# {{context|mechanical}} To cut an internal screw thread.
#: '''''Tap''' an M3 thread all the way through the hole.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[on tap]]
* [[on the tap]]
* [[tap into]]
* [[tapped out]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|intercept communications}} [[eavesdrop]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to furnish with taps}}
* Finnish: [[varustaa]] [[hana|hanalla]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[mit]] einem [[Hahn]] [[versehen]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have "on tap"}}
* Finnish: [[olla]] [[hana|hanassa]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to access a resource or object}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|verottaa}}, {{t+|fi|käyttää}} ({{t|fi|hyväkseen}})
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wykorzystywać}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to draw off liquid from a vessel}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|valuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|laskea}}; [[avata]]
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|точи|tr=tóči}},  {{t|mk|наточува|tr=natóčuva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|tappe}}
* Polish: [[napoczynać]], [[spuszczać płyn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place a listening device}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|salakuunnella}}, [[asentaa]] [[salakuuntelulaite]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|avlytte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[założyć podsłuch]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to intercept communication}}
* Finnish: [[katsella]] [[lupa|luvatta]], [[salakuunnella]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|avlytte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[podsłuchiwać]]
* Spanish: [[intervenir]], [[pinchar]] {{qualifier|colloquial}}, [[chuzar]] {{qualifier|Colombia|colloquial}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make an internal thread}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[sisäkierre]]/[[naaraskierre]], [[kierteittää]] [[reikä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|tarauder}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[gwintować]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}:  anzapfen; abzapfen; (Telefonate) abhören, (Ressourcen) erschließen; (Vorräte) anbrechen
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Device used to listen in secretly on telephone calls. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|tappe|lang=enm}}, {{etyl|fro}} {{term|taper|lang=fro}}, from a Gallo-Romance or Germanic source. Ultimately [[onomatopoeic]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tapp|ing}}

# To strike lightly. {{defdate|from early 13th c.}}
# To [[touch]] one's [[finger]], [[foot]], or [[other]] [[body]] [[part]]s on a [[surface]] (usually) [[repeat]]edly.
#: ''He was so [[nervous]] he began to '''tap''' his fingers on the [[table]].''
#: ''She '''tapped''' her companion on the back to indicate that she was ready to go.''
# To [[make]] a [[sharp]] [[noise]].
#: ''The [[tree]], [[sway]]ing in the [[breeze]], began to '''tap''' on the [[window]] [[pane]].''
# To designate for some duty or for membership, as in 'a tap on the shoulder'. {{defdate|from mid-20th c.}}
# {{slang|transitive}} To have [[sexual intercourse]] with.
#: ''I would '''tap''' that hot girl over there.''
#: ''I'd '''tap''' that.''
# {{context|combat sports}} To [[submit]] to an [[opponent]] by tapping one's hand repeatedly.
# {{rfv-sense}} {{context|combat sports|transitive}} To force (an opponent) to [[submit]].
#* '''2000''' October 14, "K®Æz¥ k ° †€°" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.ufc/msg/5bf2d811d3e2a7f2?q=tap Kimo '''Tapped''' Sakuraba]", in <tt>alt.ufc</tt>, Usenet:
#*: Hard to believe [[w:Kimo Leopoldo|Kimo &#x5B;Leopoldo&#x5D;]] used a triangle choke to '''tap''' [[w:Kazushi Sakuraba|&#x5B;Kazushi&#x5D; Sak&#x5B;uraba&#x5D;]], but 4 years can make a difference.
#* '''2003''' April 2, "Eddie" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/rec.martial-arts/msg/c909429575e58501?q=tapped I '''Tapped''' Somebody!]", in <tt>rec.martial-arts</tt>, Usenet:
#*: Just started bjj [=[[w:Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu|Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu]]] couple of months ago and i finally '''tapped''' someone!!! WOOOHOO!  The guy i '''tapped''' has been traiing a few more months than me, outweighs me by at least 30 pounds, and is in great shape from the army.
#* '''2004''' April 7, "Araxen" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/rec.sport.boxing/msg/ebadfbaf3b7d14bd?q=tapped Re: UFC vs. Boxing]", in <tt>rec.sport.boxing</tt>, Usenet:
#*: [[w:Genki Sudo|&#x5B;Genki&#x5D; Sudo]] weighed 1/4 of what Butterbean [=[[w:Eric Esch|Eric Esch]]] weighs and he still '''tapped''' Butterbean.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to touch something|often repeatedly}} [[hit]], [[patter]], [[pound]], [[rap]], [[strike]]
* {{sense|to make a sharp noise}} [[bang]], [[ping]], [[rap]]
* {{sense|to submit to an opponent}} [[tap out]]
* {{sense|to force an opponent to submit}} [[tap out]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to touch something, often repeatedly}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|tikken}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|naputtaa}}, {{t-|fi|naputella}}, {{t-|fi|taputtaa}}, {{t-|fi|kopauttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|тапка|tr=tápka}},  {{t|mk|чука|tr=čùka}},  {{t|mk|тропка|tr=trópka}}
* Polish: [[klepnąć]], [[stuknąć]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a sharp noise}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|napauttaa}}, [[kopauttaa]] (''once''); {{t-|fi|naputtaa}} (''repeatedly'')
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|чука|tr=čùka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(slang)'' to have sexual intercourse (with)}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taper}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[klopfen]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A repeated touching of one's hands, foot or other body part.
#: ''When Steve felt a '''tap''' on his shoulder, he turned around.''

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[apt#English|apt]]}} , [[ap't#English|ap't]], [[apt.#English|apt.]], [[APT#English|APT]]
* [[ATP#English|ATP]]
* [[pat#English|pat]], [[Pat#English|Pat]]
* [[PTA#English|PTA]]

----

==Catalan==

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|tap}}, [[spigot]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
{{is-noun|n|taps|töp}}

# [[loss]], [[damage]]
#: ''Búðin er rekin með '''tapi'''.''
#:: The store is run at a '''loss'''.

====Derived terms====
* [[með tapi]] (at a loss)

====Related terms====
* [[tapa]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tɑːp/|lang=no}}

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun|g=n}}

# [[loss]]

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=n1|nn-class=n1}}

[[de:tap]]
[[et:tap]]
[[el:tap]]
[[fa:tap]]
[[fr:tap]]
[[io:tap]]
[[is:tap]]
[[it:tap]]
[[kn:tap]]
[[sw:tap]]
[[hu:tap]]
[[oc:tap]]
[[pl:tap]]
[[pt:tap]]
[[ru:tap]]
[[simple:tap]]
[[fi:tap]]
[[sv:tap]]
[[ta:tap]]
[[tt:tap]]
[[te:tap]]
[[tr:tap]]
[[vi:tap]]
[[vo:tap]]
[[zh:tap]]