{{was wotd|2008|September|12}}
{{also|tarė|tåre}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=tare}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/tɛː/|/tɛə/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/tɛɹ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-tare.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛə(r)}}
* Homophones: [[tear]]

===Etymology 1===
Origin unknown.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{rare}} A [[vetch]], or the seed of a vetch.
# {{rare}} A damaging weed growing in fields of grain (with reference to Matthew 13:25: "But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way." The King James Version (Authorized))
#:* '''1985''', I saw as I thought an uncle and guardian who has led a sober, industrious and Christian life and finds himself obliged to look on the '''tares''' of folly in his own close kin. — John Fowles, ''A Maggot''

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|frm}} {{term|tare|lang=fr}}, ultimately from {{etyl|ar}} {{term|طرحة|tr=ṭarḥa||that which is thrown away|sc=Arab|lang=ar}}, a derivative of {{term|طرح|tr=ṭáraḥa||to throw (away)|sc=Arab|lang=ar}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|tare weight}}
{{en-noun}}

# The [[empty]] weight of a [[container]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|the empty weight of a container}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t|cmn|量皮重|tr=liàngpízhòng|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|tara|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|tarra}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|taara}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taara}},  {{t|fi|tyhjäpaino}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tare|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Tara|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тара|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tara|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tara|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[cloff]]
* [[gross]]
* [[net]]
* [[tret]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tar|ing}}

# {{mostly|business|and|legal}}<!--"commerce" would be ideal--> To [[take into account]] the weight of the container, wrapping etc. in [[weight#Verb|weighting]] merchandise.
#* '''1886''', ''Records of the History, Laws, Regulations, and Statistics of the Tobacco Trade of the United Kingdom'', [http://books.google.ca/books?id=vrAUAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA68 p. 86],
#*: he is {{...}} to '''tare''' such number of bales as may be deemed necessary to settle the net weight for duty.
# {{sciences}} To set a [[zero]] value on an instrument (usually a balance) that [[discount]]s the starting point.
#* '''2003''', Dany Spencer Adams, ''Lab Math'', CSHL Press<!--ISBN 0-87969-634-6-->, [http://books.google.ca/books?id=R2s0TSH1eXEC&pg=PA63&sig=ACfU3U3W05TXBAfp5pgDELaqIYLJqaTEvg p. 63],
#*: Spectrometers, for example, must be zeroed before each reading; balances must be '''tared''' before each weighing.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to set a zero value}} [[zero]]

=====Usage notes=====
* In measuring instruments other than balances, this process is usually called {{term|zero#Verb|zeroing}}.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to take into account the weight of a container}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|taarata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tarer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|austarieren}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to set a zero value on an instrument}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|taarata}}
* French: [[tarer]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|nullen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aert}}
* [[rate#English|rate]]
* [[tear#English|tear]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ML.|fr}} {{term|tara|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|ar|fr}} {{term|طرح|tr=ŧarħ||rubbish, refuse|sc=Arab|lang=ar}}, from {{term|طرح|tr=ŧaraħa||reject, deduct|sc=Arab|lang=ar}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/taʀ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{archaic|lang=fr}} [[deficiency]]
# [[defect]], [[vice]], [[flaw]]
# [[tare#English|tare]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aert}}
* [[âtre#French|âtre]]
* [[rate#French|rate]], [[raté#French|raté]], [[râte#French|râte]], [[râté#French|râté]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''tare''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|[[tara]]|lang=Italian}}

===Anagrams===
* [[arte#Italian|arte]], [[atre#Italian|atre]], [[erta#Italian|erta]], [[etra#Italian|etra]], [[rate#Italian|rate]], [[trae#Italian|trae]]

----

==Japanese==

===Adjective===
{{infl|ja|adjective}}
{{rfscript|Japanese}}

# [[lazy|Lazy]], droopy

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} {{term|talem|tālem|lang=la}}, accusative of {{term|talis|tālis|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈta.re]|lang=ro}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj|2}}

# {{context|of a material}} [[hard]], [[tough]], [[solid]]
#: ''[[pâine|Pâinea]] [[este]] [[foarte]] [[tare]]''.
#:: ''The bread is very hard''.
# {{context|of a person}} [[strong]]
# {{context|of a voice}} [[loud]], [[strong]], [[powerful]]
# [[fierce]], [[vehement]], [[intense]], [[vigorous]]
# [[mighty]], [[durable]], [[lasting]], [[sturdy]]
# {{colloquial|lang=ro}} [[cool]]

====Declension====
{{ro-adj-2-e|tar}}

===Adverb===
{{ro-adv}}

# [[strongly]]
# [[quickly]] and [[well]]
# [[very]]

[[el:tare]]
[[fr:tare]]
[[io:tare]]
[[ku:tare]]
[[hu:tare]]
[[my:tare]]
[[ru:tare]]
[[scn:tare]]
[[fi:tare]]
[[ta:tare]]
[[te:tare]]
[[vi:tare]]