{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "te"}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* (''North America'') [[ti]]

===Etymology===
Altered from ''[[si]]'' in the 19th century to prevent having two notes of the musical scale starting with the same letter.

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/ti:/}}
*: {{rhymes|iː}}
* {{homophones|T|tea|tee|ti}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{music}} In [[solfège]], the seventh note of a major scale (the note B in the [[fixed-do]] system): [[si]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[et#English|et]]}} , [[ET#English|ET]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Basque==

===Noun===
'''te'''

# [[tea]].

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|f}}
# The [[Appendix:Latin script|Latin]] letter [[T]] (lowercase [[t]]).

[[Category:ca:Latin letter names]]

===Etymology 2===

====Pronoun====
{{infl|ca|pronoun|g=2 {{s}} weak|reinforced|et|elided|'t|reduced|t'}}
# [[thee]]; second person weak pronoun 

===Etymology 3===

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|m}}
# The [[tea plant]]; (''[[Camellia sinensis]]'') [[Category:ca:Plants]] [[Category:ca:Agriculture]]
# [[tea]]; the product made from the leaves of the tea plant [[Category:ca:Beverages]]
# [[tea]]; a light afternoon meal at which tea is commonly served [[Category:ca:Meals]]

----

==Classical Nahuatl==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|nci|pronoun}}

# {{alternative spelling of|teh}}

----

==Danish==

===Alternative forms===
* [[the#Danish|the]] (unofficial since 1872, but still common)

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/teː/|[tˢeːˀ]|lang=da}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|nl|da}} {{term|thee|lang=nl}}, from {{etyl|zh-min-nan|da}} {{term|茶|tr=tê|sc=Hans||tea|lang=zh-min-nan}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|en|er}}

# [[tea]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|en|er}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term| tjá|lang=non}}.

====Verb====
{{da-verb|te|te|ter|teede|har|teet}}

# [[behave]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-te.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|lang=nl|[tə]}}
* {{X-SAMPA|lang=nl|[t@]}}

===Adverb===
{{infl|nl|adverb}}

# ''indicating excess:'' [[too]]
#: ''Te veel is nooit goed'' — too much is never good
#: ''te gek!'' — far out!

===Preposition===
{{infl|nl|preposition}}

# (''modifying an infinitive verb'') [[to]]
#: ''Er is iets '''te''' eten'' — there is something to eat
# {{archaic|lang=nl}} located [[at]], [[in]]
#: '''''Te''' Amsterdam'': in Amsterdam.

===Article===
{{infl|nl|article}}

# {{archaic|lang=nl}} in idiom; a form of the definite article [[de]]
#: ''Te drommel'' — by Jove.

====Usage notes====

This preposition used to govern the dative case. It also fused with the dative forms of the definite article:

* (''at'', ''in'') [[ter]] = te + [[der]] for feminine singular.
* (''at'', ''in'') [[ten#Dutch|ten]] = te + [[den]] in all other cases.

Combinations with the nominative form of the article, like *''te het'' or *''te de'' have never become part of the language. The collapse of the inflection system and the related demise of the distinction between masculine and feminine gender (for most speakers) has pushed this preposition into partial disuse. It does however occur in a fair number of idiomatic expressions, often with fossilized  case endings, e.g.:
: '''''te''' elfder ure.'' &mdash; at the eleventh hour.
: '''''te''' eigen bate'' &mdash; for one's own profit.

(''Elfder'', ''ure'' and ''bate'' are dative forms of [[elfde]], [[uur]] and [[baat]] resp.)

----

==Estonian==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|et|pronoun|short form of|teie}}

# [[you]] (''plural and polite form'').

----

==Ewe==

===Noun===
{{infl|ee|noun}}

# [[paternal aunt]]
# [[yam]]

===Preposition===
{{infl|ee|preposition}}

# [[under]]

===Verb===
{{infl|ee|verb}}

# to [[compact]]
# to [[compress]]
# to [[sting]]
# to [[swell]]

[[Category:ee:Family]]
[[Category:ee:Vegetables]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[teː]|lang=fo}}

===Noun===
{{infl|fo|noun|g=n|g2=s}}

# [[tea]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n4-s|te}}

[[Category:fo:Beverages]]
[[Category:fo:Food and drink]]

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|te}}
* {{rhymes|e|lang=fi}}
* {{IPA|lang=fi|[te]}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fi|personal pronoun|stem|tei-}}

# {{personal|lang=fi}} [[you]] (''second-person plural; when addressing many persons or when addressing politely or formally one person'').

====Declension====
* Irregular. The [[comitative]] and [[instructive]] forms don't exist; the [[abessive]] is hardly used.
* In addition to the standard set of cases, '''''te''''' and other personal pronouns have a specific [[accusative]] form, ''[[teidät]]''.

{{fi-decl-pron|1s=[[sinä]]|2s=[[sinun]]|3s=[[sinua]]|4s=[[sinut]]|5s=[[sinussa]]|6s=[[sinusta]]|7s=[[sinuun]]|8s=[[sinulla]]|9s=[[sinulta]]|10s=[[sinulle]]|11s=[[sinuna]]|12s=[[sinuksi]]|14s=[[sinutta]]|1p='''te'''|2p=[[teidän]]|3p=[[teitä]]|4p=[[teidät]]|5p=[[teissä]]|6p=[[teistä]]|7p=[[teihin]]|8p=[[teillä]]|9p=[[teiltä]]|10p=[[teille]]|11p=[[teinä]]|12p=[[teiksi]]|14p=[[teittä]]|adv=no}}

====Usage notes====
* Depending on the context, the pronoun can sometimes be omitted in written language if the text remains fluent &ndash; the pronoun is in spoken language practically always used (cf. the usage of ''[[sinä]]'', "you" (sg.)).
* When addressing politely or formally one person in a written form, it is recommendable to capitalize the pronoun, ''Te'', for politeness purposes.
* When addressing one person, the active past participle must be ''singular'' in negative past indicative, in present perfect of all moods both affirmative and negative and past perfect indicative &mdash; because there is ''one'' person addressed:
:* '''Te''' [[ette]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''negative past indicative'')
:** ''You were'' not here at that time.
:* '''Te''' [[olette]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''affirmative present perfect indicative'')
:** ''You'' have ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' ette [[ole#Finnish|ole]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''negative present perfect indicative'')
:** ''You'' have not ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' [[olisitte]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''affirmative present perfect conditional'')
:** ''You'' would have ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' ette [[olisi]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''negative present perfect conditional'')
:** ''You'' would have not ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' [[lienette]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''affirmative present perfect potential'')
:** ''You'' have probably ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' ette [[liene]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''negative present perfect potential'')
:** ''You'' haven't probably ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' [[olitte]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''affirmative past perfect indicative'')
:** ''You'' had ''been'' here at that time.
:* '''Te''' ette [[ollut]] ''[[ollut]]'' [[täällä]] [[silloin]]. (''negative past perfect indicative; note '''ollut''' twice'')
:** ''You'' had not ''been'' here at that time.

====Synonyms====
* [[tet#Finnish|tet]] (''dialectal'')
* [[työ]] (''dialectal'')

====Derived terms====
* verbs: [[teititellä]]

===See also===
* [[minä#Finnish|minä]]
* [[sinä#Finnish|sinä]]
* [[hän#Finnish|hän]]
* [[me#Finnish|me]]
* [[he#Finnish|he]]

===Anagrams===
* [[et#Finnish|et]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tə/|lang=fr}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fr|pronoun}}

# {{context|direct object|lang=fr}} [[you|You]].
#: ''Il '''te''' cite souvent.'': He often quotes you.
# {{context|indirect object|lang=fr}} [[you|You]].
#: ''Il '''te''' donne le livre.'': He gives you the book.

=====Related terms=====
{{French personal pronouns}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[et#French|et]]}} 

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|te|tē|lang=la}}, dative singular form of {{term|tu|tū|lang=la}}.

===Pronoun===
{{gl-pron|form=acconly|nom=ti|obl=ti|dat=che}}

# [[you]] (''singular second-person personal pronoun'')
# [[yourself]] (''reflexive singular second-person personal pronoun'')

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Galician pronouns]]
* {{l|gl|che}}
* {{l|gl|contigo}}
* {{l|gl|ti}}
* {{l|gl|teu}}

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|ht}} {{term|été||been}}

===Adverb===
{{infl|ht|adverb}}

# ''Indicates the past or pluperfect tense''.

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
From the same Uralic root *''te'' as Finnish [[sinä]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈtɛ/|lang=hu}}
* {{audio|Hu-te.ogg|Audio}}

===Pronoun===
{{hu-pronoun|personal}}

# {{personal|lang=hu}} [[you]] {{gloss|second-person singular, nominative, informal form}}

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-perspron|ad|ed|d|acc=téged}}

====See also====
* [[maga]] (formal)
* [[ön]] (formal)

[[Category:Hungarian two-letter words]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
{{infl|is|noun|g=n}} ([[tes|te-s]])

# [[tea]]

====Derived terms====
* [[grænt te]] {{n}}
* [[tebolli]] {{m}}
* [[tehetta]] {{f}}
* [[teketill]] {{m}}
* [[tepottur]] {{m}}
* [[tesía]] {{f}}
* [[teskeið]] {{f}}

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[tʲɛ]}}

===Adjective===
{{infl|ga|adjective|plural|teo|comparative|teo}}

# [[warm]]
# [[hot]]

====Mutation====
{{ga mut cons|t|e}}

----

==Italian==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|it|pronoun}}

# (''emphasised objective of [[tu#Italian|tu]]'') [[you]]

====See also====
* [[ti#Italian|ti]]
* [[tè]]

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=て}}

# [[手]]: [[hand]]
# [[て]]: [[hiragana]] character ''te''
# [[テ]]: [[katakana]] character ''te''

----

==Lojban==

===Cmavo===
{{jbo-cmavo|ter}}

# refers to the x3 sumti of the following word

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''te'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having the tone, [[tè]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Maori==

===Article===
{{infl|mi|article}}

# [[the]], the definite article, singular. (''Plural:'' [[ngā]])

----

==Meriam==

===Noun===
{{infl|ulk|noun}}

# [[mouth]]
# [[door]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun|g=c}}

# [[tea]].

----

==Romani==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|rom|conjunction}}

# [[if]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ro|pronoun|unstressed accusative and reflexive form of|tu}}

# (''direct object'') [[you]]
#: ''[[şti]]i [[cât]] [[de]] [[mult]] '''te''' [[iubi|iubeşte]]?'' - do you know how much he loves you?

====See also====
* [[tine]]
* [[te rog]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronoun===
{{sh-pronoun|r|те}}

# of [[you]] (clitic genitive singular of {{term|ti|tȋ|you|lang=sh}})
# [[you]] (clitic accusative singular of {{term|ti|tȋ|you|lang=sh}})

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|ns={{l|sh|ti|tȋ}}
|np={{l|sh|vi|vȋ}}
|gs={{l|sh|tebe|tȅbe}}, {{l|sh|te}}
|gp={{l|sh|vas|vȃs}}, {{l|sh|vas}}
|ds={{l|sh|tebi|tȅbi}}, {{l|sh|ti}}
|dp={{l|sh|vama|vȁma}}, {{l|sh|vam}}
|as={{l|sh|tebe|tȅbe}}, {{l|sh|te}}
|ap={{l|sh|vas|vȃs}}, {{l|sh|vas}}
|vs={{l|sh|ti}}
|vp={{l|sh|vi|vȋ}}
|ls={{l|sh|tebi|tȅbi}}
|lp={{l|sh|vama|vȁma}}
|is={{l|sh|tobom|tȍbōm}}
|ip={{l|sh|vama|vȁma}}
}}

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{es-noun-f}}

# Name of the letter {{term|t}}.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|la|es}} ''[[te]]'', accusative of ''[[tu]]''

====Pronoun====
{{infl|es|pronoun}}

# you (familiar objective case form)
#: ''Te voy a hacer tus calzones....'' — I’m going to make your britches (from the song ''La Cucaracha'')

=====See also=====
{{Spanish pronoun}}

[[Category:es:Latin letter names]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-te.ogg|audio}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[the]], [[thé]]

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|te|teet|teer|teerna|tes|teets|teers|teernas|base=te|gender=Neuter}}
'''te''' IPA: /teː/

# [[tea]].

====Homophones====
* [[T]], [[t]]

----

==Tongan==

===Article===
{{infl|to|article}}

# [[the]] {{i|the definite article}}

[[ar:te]]
[[zh-min-nan:te]]
[[br:te]]
[[ca:te]]
[[da:te]]
[[de:te]]
[[et:te]]
[[el:te]]
[[es:te]]
[[eo:te]]
[[fr:te]]
[[fy:te]]
[[gl:te]]
[[ko:te]]
[[hr:te]]
[[io:te]]
[[id:te]]
[[is:te]]
[[it:te]]
[[ku:te]]
[[lo:te]]
[[la:te]]
[[li:te]]
[[hu:te]]
[[nl:te]]
[[ja:te]]
[[no:te]]
[[tpi:te]]
[[pl:te]]
[[pt:te]]
[[ru:te]]
[[si:te]]
[[sl:te]]
[[fi:te]]
[[sv:te]]
[[th:te]]
[[tr:te]]
[[vi:te]]
[[vo:te]]
[[zh:te]]