==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|Diojiu|Teochiu|Tiuchiu|Tie-chiu|Teochow|Chiuchow}}

===Etymology===
From transliteration of {{etyl|zhx-teo|en}} {{zh-l|潮州|tr=dio5 ziu1}}.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}
{{wikipedia|Teochew (dialect)}}

# A [[dialect]] of [[Min Nan]] [[Chinese]], spoken in the [[Chaozhou]] region of eastern [[Guangdong]].
# The {{w|Teochew people}} {{rfclarify|en}}
#* '''1985''', Lim Keak Cheng, ''Social Change and the Chinese in Singapore: A Socio-economic Geography with Special Reference to Bāng Structure''
#*: The founding of the Four Seas Communications Bank by the leading Teochew  merchants in 1907 marked the heyday of Teochew economic strength. However,  the inter-war years was a period of economic regression for the Teochews.
#* '''1995''', Qinghuang Yan, ''Community and Politics: The Chinese in Colonial Singapore and Malaysia'', Marshall Cavendish International ({{ISBN|9789812100627}})
#*: mentioned above, Lim Peng Siang, Low Kim Pong, Teo Sian Keng and Lee  Choon Guan were leaders of Fukien dialect group; Lam Kim Seng, Chua Tse  Yong were Teochew leaders; Loke Yew and Lam Wai Fong were Cantonese  leaders.
#* '''1996''', Danny Tze-Ken Wong, ''Our Anchor Holds: A History of the Boy's Brigade in Malaysia, 1946-1996''
#*: Guthrie Gamble started the first company in the southern Chinese Teochew city  of Swatow ; the BB was also strongly entrenched on the island of Singapore  since 1930 . The fact that Christian churches were also flourishing in Malaya and  the&nbsp;...
#* '''2012''', Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew, ''A Sociolinguistic History of Early Identities in Singapore: From Colonialism to Nationalism'', Palgrave Macmillan ({{ISBN|9781137012333}}), page 45:
#*: However, the majority of Singaporean Teochews speak the Swatow (named after  the main Teochew city in southeast China) variety. New migrants coming from  various regions of Chaozhou province would therefore have to pick up Swatow,&nbsp;...
#* '''2014''', Kua Ee Heok, ''Ageing Baby Boomers'', Write Editions / Tusitala (RLS) Pte Ltd ({{ISBN|9789810792923}})
#*: My grandfather, Mr Kua KimPar, left the Teochew city of Chaozhoucirca 1896  because of the political turmoilinChina with the declineofthe Qing Dynasty.  Thecountry was inthe throesof anarchyand Nanyang beckoned withits plenitude &nbsp;...
# {{lb|en|dated}} A city in the eastern part of China's [[Guangdong]] province, now more commonly called [[Chaozhou]]. {{rfv-sense|en}}
#* '''2015''', Eric Low, ''Teochew Heritage Cooking: A treasury of recipes for Chinese comfort food'', Marshall Cavendish International Asia Pte Ltd ({{ISBN|9789814677356}}), page 72:
#*: It has been said that this dish was created by the court house chefs when the  secretaries of the various civil departments in Teochew City did not want their  officials to look uncivilised eating chicken with bones at formal events. As such,  the&nbsp;...
#* '''2014''', Sihua Liang, ''Language Attitudes and Identities in Multilingual China: A Linguistic Ethnography'', Springer ({{ISBN|9783319126197}}), page 92:
#*: 8 Chen Chaozhou (Teochew city). Two thirds of the population live in Chaozhou.  Err...three fourths, actually, because only my father, his brother and the sons of  some relatives have left (Chaozhou) to work elsewhere. Very few of them live in&nbsp;...

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|Chaozhou}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one of the divisions of the Chinese language}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|潮州话|tr=ciu4 zau1 waa6-2|sc=Hani}}
*: Hakka: {{t|hak|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|hak|潮州话|tr=Chhèu-chû-fa|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|潮州话|tr=Cháozhōuhuà|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Dong: {{t|cdo|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cdo|潮州话|tr=Dièu-ciŭ-uâ|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|潮州话|tr=Tiô-chiu-ōe|sc=Hani}}
*:: Teochew: {{t+|nan|潮州話|sc=Hani}}, {{t|nan|潮州话|tr=die5 ziu1 uê7, dio5 ziu1 uê7|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|teochew|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|潮州語|tr=ちょうしゅうご, chōshūgo}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|조주어}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|[[bahasa]] [[Teochew]]}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|чаоша́ньский|m}}
* Thai: {{t|th|แต้จิ๋ว}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|[[tiếng]] [[Triều Châu]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|city|Chaozhou}}