==Portuguese==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|pt|thesaurus}}

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|thesaurus}} {{gloss|book of synonyms}}
#: {{syn|pt|dicionário de sinônimos|q1=Brazil|dicionário de sinónimos|q2=Portugal}}
# {{lb|pt|information science}} {{l|en|thesaurus}} {{gloss|hierarchical index of metadata pointing to information bearing entities}}

====Synonyms====

----

==Spanish==
{{rfv|es}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|es|la|thesaurus||treasure}}, from {{der|es|grc|θησαυρός}}. {{doublet|es|tesoro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{es-IPA}}

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{lb|es|information science}} {{l|en|thesaurus}} {{gloss|hierarchical index of metadata pointing to information bearing entities}}
# {{lb|es|rare}} {{synonym of|es|diccionario de sinónimos}}
#* María Isabel Pérez Torres, María del Mar Sánchez Ramos, ''Los Diccionarios Electrónicos y las Bases de Datos Léxicas Online en TESL'' in '''2004''', Francisco Javier Díaz Pérez, Ana María Ortega Cebreros, ''A World of English, a World of Translation: Estudios Interdisciplinares Sobre Traducción Y Lengua Inglesa'', Universidad de Jaén, [https://books.google.com/books?id=Q2z99AdodD4C&dq=%22tesauros%22 page 365]:
#*: Los '''tesauros''', como ''Wordsmith'', permiten ampliar el vocabulario en cuanto a las relaciones de sinonimia y antonimia.
#*:: '''Thesauri''', such as ''Wordsmith'', allow you to expand your vocabulary with regard to relations of synonymy and antonymy.
#* '''2010''', Christine Dugan, ''Strategies for Building Academic Vocabulary in Science'', Shell Education, [https://books.google.com/books?id=rBV7jtIYbGUC&pg=PP27&dq=%22tesauro%22#v=onepage page 25]:
#*: Si es necesario, use un diccionario o un '''tesauro''' para encontrar palabras similares que sean familiares a su estudiante.
#*:: If necessary, use a dictionary or a '''thesaurus''' to find similar words that are familiar to your student.
#* '''2018''', Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez, ''Introducción a la traducción: inglés &lt; &gt; español'', Routledge, [https://books.google.com/books?id=4L5dDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT192&dq=%22tesauro%22#v=onepage page 192]:
#*: Word contiene un '''tesauro''' incorporado que puede ser de gran ayuda al traductor. Solo es necesario introducir una palabra para que el programa nos devuelva una lista de sinónimos y otras palabras relacionadas.
#*:: [Microsoft] Word has an integrated '''thesaurus''' that can be very helpful to the translator. All we need to do is enter a word and the program will return a list of synonyms and other related words.
#* '''2018''', Ángeles  Carreres, María Noriega-Sánchez, Carme Calduch, ''Mundos en palabras: Learning Advanced Spanish through Translation'', Routledge, [https://books.google.com/books?id=we1GDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT100&dq=%22tesauro%22#v=onepage page 100]:
#*: Con frecuencia, el empleo de '''tesauros''' debe complementarse con otras herramientas, como diccionarios monolingües o corpus, para asegurarnos de que la palavra que pretendemos emplear como sinónima de otra realmente lo es en el contexto.
#*:: Often the use of '''thesauri''' must be complemented by other tools, such as monolingual dictionaries or corpora, so that we can be sure that the word we intend to use as a synonym of another really is so in the context at hand.

====Further reading====
* {{R:DRAE}}

[[Category:es:Reference works]]