==English==

===Pronunciation===
{{audio|en-us-that's what she said.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Phrase===
{{head|en|phrase|head=[[that]][['s]] [[what]] [[she]] [[said]]}}

# {{context|US|humorous|idiomatic|lang=en}} A [[joke|joking]] and often [[tasteless]] [[retort]], intended to draw attention to a previous statement which has the [[potential]] for a [[risqué]] [[double entendre]].
#* '''2008''',  Ron Fletcher, "[http://www.boston.com/news/local/articles/2008/03/02/in_the_internet_age_a_few_lessons_about_bad_jokes_good_taste/ In the Internet Age, a few lessons about bad jokes, good taste]," ''Boston Globe'', 2 Mar. (retrieved 7 Apr. 2009):
#*: Some seemed bored and irritated by the priapic yahooism and overwillingness of peers to read a sexual double entendre into the most innocuous remark. "No matter what you say," said one student, "someone is going to respond with ‘'''That's what she said'''.’ "
#* '''2008''', Rick Broida, "[http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/154442/quick_tip_increase_the_font_size_in_your_browser.html?tk=rl_noinform Quick Tip: Increase the Font Size in Your Browser]," ''PCWorld.com'', 24 Nov. (retrieved 7 Apr. 2009):
#*: So this morning we pulled up a pumpkin-pancake recipe on the kitchen laptop. Just one problem: My wife couldn't read it from where she was mixing. "Can't you make it bigger?" she asked. (Go ahead, insert your own "'''that's what she said'''" joke here. No class.)

====Usage notes====
* The phrase is only idiomatic when '''[[she]]''' is emphasized.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|retort}}
* Finnish: ...[[sano]] [[entinen]] [[likka]]! (''as if continuing previous sentence'')
* Swedish: ...[[sade]] [[flickan]]. (lit. "...said the girl"')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[innuendo]]
* [[as the actress said to the bishop]]
* [[nudge nudge wink wink]]

[[Category:English sentences]]
[[Category:English deixes]]

[[fr:that's what she said]]
[[no:that's what she said]]