{{rfc|Notes in the translations are too discursive for the table; move them to the pages for the translations themselves and add direct the user who wants grammatical info to those pages}}
==English==
{{rank|my|were|are|37|their|one|so|me}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{enPR|''th''âr}}, {{IPA|/ðeə(r)/}}, {{SAMPA|/De@(r)/}}
*{{audio|en-us-their.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Homophones====
*[[there]]
*[[they're]]

===Pronoun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-pron}}

# {{possessive determiner}} Belonging to them.
#:'''''They''' will meet tomorrow at '''their''' convenience''.
#:''This is probably '''their''' cat.''
# {{possessive determiner}} Belonging to someone of unknown gender.
#:''Everyone must understand '''their''' feelings.''

====Usage notes====
*For notes on the usage referring to a person of unspecified gender, see the usage notes for '''[[they]]'''.

It is important to distinguish “'''their'''” from “[[there]]” and “[[they're|they’re]]”.  “'''Their'''” signifies ownership.  “There” designates a place.  “They’re” means “they are”.

====Related terms====
*[[they]], [[them]] (personal pronouns, subject & object case)
*[[theirs]] (possessive pronoun)

====Translations====
{{trans-top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[لهم]]}} {{unicode|(láhum)}}
*Chinese:
*:Mandarin: {{zh-ts|他們的|他们的}} ([[tāmende]]); {{zh-ts|她們的|她们的}} ([[tāmende]])
*:Min Nan: [[亻因]] ([[in]])
*Czech: [[jejich]]
*Dutch: [[hun]]
*Esperanto: [[ilia]], [[iliaj]]
*Finnish:
*:*(''if owners are people'') [[heidän]] (''genitive of [[he]]'') + [[-nsa#Finnish|-nsa]] (''with back vowel harmony'') / [[-nsä#Finnish|-nsä]] (''with front vowel harmony'') (''possessive suffix'')
*:: *'''Note:''' ''In standard Finnish, both the possessive suffix and the genitive of the personal pronoun are compulsory. In colloquial Finnish, usually only '''heidän''' (or its colloquial or dialectal variants, e.g. '''heiän''') is used.''
*:*(''if owners are animals or inanimate things'') [[ne|niiden]] (''genitive of [[ne]]'') (''no possessive suffix appended to the main word if the thing that is in English "their ..." is the '''''subject''''' of the clause'')
*French: [[leur]] {{s}}, [[leurs]] {{p}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[har]]
*German: [[ihr]], [[ihre]]
*Hungarian: [[az]] [[ő]]...[[-uk]]/[[-juk]]/[[-ük]]/[[-jük]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[il loro]] ''m sing'', [[la loro]] ''f sg'', [[i loro]] {{m}} {{p}}, [[le loro]] {{f}} {{p}}
*[[Novial]]: [[losen]] {{m}} {{p}} (1), [[lasen]] {{f}} {{p}} (1), [[lusen]] ''n pl '' (1), [[lesen]] {{m}} {{p}} or {{f}} {{p}} or ''n pl'' or ''any mixture'' (1), [[sen]] ''referring to subject'' (1), [[len]] (2), [[sen]] ''referring to subject'' (2)
*Japanese: [[彼ら]]の (かれらの, karera no)
*Korean: [[그들의]] (geudeul-ui)
*Maltese: [[tagħhom]]
*Portuguese: [[seu]], [[seus]]
*Russian: [[их]] (iχ)
*Slovak: [[ich#Slovak|ich]]
*Slovene: [[njihov]]
*Spanish: [[su]] {{s}}, [[sus]] {{p}}
*Swedish: [[deras]], [[sin]] (''c, singular''), [[sitt]] (''n, singular''), [[sina]] (''plural'')
*:'''Note:''' ''In French, Italian, Spanish, the gender of this pronoun agrees with the thing(s) owned, not with the owner. In Swedish, the gender of "sin" agrees with the things owned, while "deras" never inflects.''
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English determiners]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Pronunciation===
*/hér/

===Verb===
{{infl|gd|verb}}

# will say
#:'''''their''' Seumas'' &mdash; James will say.
#:'''''their''' mo chlann'' &mdash; my children will say.

[[fr:their]]
[[ko:their]]
[[io:their]]
[[it:their]]
[[la:their]]
[[hu:their]]
[[ja:their]]
[[pl:their]]
[[simple:their]]
[[fi:their]]
[[ta:their]]
[[te:their]]
[[vi:their]]
[[tr:their]]