==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|LL.}} {{term|lang=la|theoria|theōria}}, from {{etyl|grc}} {{term|lang=grc|θεωρία||contemplation, speculation, a looking at, things looked at}}, from {{term|lang=grc|θεωρέω||I  look at, view, consider, examine}}, from {{term|lang=grc|θεωρός||spectator}}, from {{term|lang=grc|θέα||a view}} + {{term|lang=grc|ὁράω||I see,look}}.

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈθɪəɹi/}}
* {{audio|en-us-theory.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪəri}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|theor|ies|-}}

# {{obsolete}} Mental [[conception]]; [[reflection]], [[consideration]]. {{defdate|16th-18th c.}}
#*'''1646''', {{w|Thomas Browne}}, ''Pseudodoxia Epidemica'', VII.19:
#*:As they encrease the hatred of vice in some, so doe they enlarge the '''theory''' of wickednesse in all.
# In [[scientific]] usage, '''theory''' is a [[term of art]], meaning a [[coherent]] [[statement]] or set of ideas that [[explain]]s [[observe]]d [[fact]]s or [[phenomenon|phenomena]], or which sets out the [[law]]s and principles of something known or observed; a [[hypothesis]] ''confirmed'' by observation, experiment etc.  {{defdate|from 17th c.}} Compare to [[law]] and [[hypothesis]].
#*'''2002''', Duncan Steel, ''The Guardian'', 23 May 2002:
#*:It was only when Einstein's '''theory''' of relativity was published in 1915 that physicists could show that Mercury's "anomaly" was actually because Newton's gravitational '''theory''' was incomplete.
#*'''2003''', {{w|Bill Bryson}}, ''A Short History of Nearly Everything'', BCA, p. 118:
#*:The world would need additional decades [...] before the Big Bang would begin to move from interesting idea to established '''theory'''.
#*'''2005''', Ronald H. Pine, http://www.csicop.org/specialarticles/show/intelligent_design_or_no_model_creationism, 15 October 2005:
#*:Misunderstanding on the part of most people as to what the word "theory" means in science has probably caused more trouble than anything else in getting it across to the public that evolution is as well-supported as any principle in science. ... Most people tend to think of the word "theory" as meaning pretty much the same thing as their concept of "hypothesis"—namely, a guess or surmise. A "theory" is thought of as a very tentative proposition. This is only natural, because that is the "ordinary English" meaning of the word outside of scientific contexts, and our citizens' educational experiences have rarely done anything to disabuse them of this notion. As I define "scientific theory," it is a great, overarching, explanatory scheme which explains a vast number of phenomena; which makes connections between phenomena that would otherwise be perceived as having nothing to do with each other; which makes wild, off-the-wall predictions which nonetheless turn out as forecast; which is supported by an overwhelming amount of evidence and has been tested countless times in countless ways without being falsified; shows consilience to a truly remarkable extent; and which is, for all practical purposes, universally accepted by the scientific community. A scientific theory has ''content'', in spades. ... A scientific ''law'' is a mere statement of the way things happen to happen. ... Laws are not ''explanations'' of anything, they just describe what happens or they acknowledge the existence of ''particular repeatable patterns'' of what happens. ... Far too many of us have been taught in school that a scientist, in the course of trying to figure something out, will first come up with a "hypothesis" (a guess or surmise—not necessarily even an "educated" guess). After this "hypothesis" has been tested by an experiment or two, and it still seems to work and hold up after a fashion, then it can graduate to the next level of likelihood—it becomes a "theory." Then, when the theory is finally "proven to be true," it becomes a "law". ... ''No theory ever becomes a law. No law ever becomes a theory''. They are apples and oranges. Also, neither theories nor laws are necessarily to be thought of as more tentative or "less proven" than the other. Theories explain ''why'' the laws exist in the first place. A given theory will subsume/explain a multiplicity of different laws. A ''theory'' can cause a ''law'' to be discarded. Relativity theory has resulted in Newton's law of gravity having been shown to be not necessarily so. Theories are bigger and more powerful than laws. Although every scientific theory started out as a hypothesis or as a group of related hypotheses, only one hypothesis in a million (or so) has the potential to ever become a theory. This is because many hypotheses will be falsified, but, more important, the great majority of hypotheses are too specific to specific phenomena—they are not "general" enough. A given hypothesis may be as universally accepted as a given law or a theory is. Any relative degree of tentativeness is not implied by the three terms. 
# {{uncountable}} The underlying [[principle]]s or [[method]]s of a given technical skill, [[art]] etc., as opposed to its [[practice]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#*'''1990''', Tony Bennett, ''Outside Literature'', p. 139:
#*:Does this mean, then, that there can be no such thing as a '''theory''' of literature?
#*'''1998''', Elizabeth Souritz, ''The Great History of Russian Ballet'':
#*:Lopukhov wrote a number of books and articles on ballet '''theory''', as well as his memoirs.
# {{mathematics}} A [[field]] of [[study]] attempting to [[exhaustive]]ly [[describe]] a particular [[class]] of [[construct]]s. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''Knot '''theory''' classifies the mappings of a circle into 3-space.''
# A [[hypothesis]] or [[conjecture]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#*'''1999''', Wes DeMott, ''Vapors'':
#*:It's just a '''theory''' I have, and I wonder if women would agree. But don't men say a lot about themselves when a short-skirted woman slides out of a car or chair?
#*'''2003''', Sean Coughlan, ''The Guardian'', 21 Jun 2003:
#*:The '''theory''' is that by stripping costs to the bone, they are able to offer ludicrously low fares.
# {{countable}} {{logic}} A [[set]] of [[axiom]]s together with all [[statement]]s [[derivable]] from them.  ''Equivalently,'' a [[formal language]] plus a set of [[axiom]]s (from which can then be derived [[theorem]]s).
#: ''A '''theory''' is consistent if it has a model.''

====Usage notes====
In scientific discourse, the sense “unproven conjecture” is discouraged (with {{term|hypothesis|lang=en}} or {{term|conjecture|lang=en}} preferred), due to unintentional ambiguity and intentional equivocation with the sense “well-developed statement or structure”. This is particularly found with reference to the “[[w:evolution|'''theory''' of evolution]]”, which opponents disparage with “it’s just a '''theory''' [conjecture]”, while proponents retort that in this context, '''theory''' means instead “well-developed, well-established”. See quotation given for ''scientific usage.''

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:supposition]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|terms derived from theory}}
* [[acoustic theory]]
* [[algorithmic information theory]]
* [[antenna theory]]
* [[atomic theory]]
* [[catastrophe theory]]
* [[category theory]]
* [[cell theory]]
* [[chaos theory]]
* [[circuit theory]]
* [[complexity theory]]
* [[computation theory]]
* [[control theory]]
* [[critical theory]]
* [[decision theory]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[domino theory]]
* [[extreme value theory]]
* [[game theory]]
* [[giant impact theory]]
* [[graph theory]]
* [[group theory]]
* [[in theory]]
* [[information theory]]
* [[kinetic theory of gases]]
* [[knot theory]]
* [[literary theory]]
* [[music theory]]
* [[number theory]]
* [[phlogiston theory]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[probability theory]]
* [[proof theory]]
* [[quantum field theory]]
* [[rational choice theory]]
* [[set theory]]
* [[signal theory]]
* [[social theory]]
* [[systems theory]]
* [[theory of gravity]]
* [[theory of relativity]]
* [[theory of truth]]
* [[Theory X]]
* [[Theory Y]]
* [[type theory]]
* [[value theory]]
* [[virtue theory]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[theorem]]
* [[theoretical]]
* [[theorise]], [[theorize]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a coherent set of statements attempting to explain observed phenomena}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|نظرية|f|tr=naZaríya}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|teoria|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|理論|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|理论|tr=lǐlùn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|學説|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|学说|tr=xuéshuō|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|teorie|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|theorie}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|teoria}}
* French: {{t+|fr|théorie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Theorie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θεωρία|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|理論|tr=riron}}, {{t|ja|学説|tr=gakusetsu}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|теорија|f|tr=teórija}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|teorija|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|teori|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|teoria|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|teoria|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|teorii|p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|теория|f|tr=teórija}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|теорија|f|alt=тѐо̄рија|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|teorija|f|alt=tèōrija}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|teoría|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|teori|c}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|teorod}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an unproven conjecture}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|نظرية|f|tr=naZaríya}}
* Armenian: [[տեսություն]] (tesut'yun)
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|teoria|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|理論|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|理论|tr=lǐlùn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|theorie}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|teoria}}
* French: {{t+|fr|théorie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Theorie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θεωρία|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|teoria|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|憶測|tr=okusoku}}, {{t|ja|推測|tr=suisoku}}, {{t+|ja|推論|tr=suiron}}, {{t+|ja|見解|tr=kenkai}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|теорија|f|tr=teórija}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|teorija|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|teori|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|teoria|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|teoria|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|teorie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|теория|f|tr=teórija}}, {{t+|ru|гипотеза|f|tr=gipóteza}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|beachd-smaoin|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|теорија|f|alt=тѐо̄рија|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|teorija|f|alt=tèōrija}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|teoría|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|teori|c}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|teor}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a field of study in mathematics}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|teoria|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|理論|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|理论|tr=lǐlùn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|學説|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|学说|tr=xuéshuō|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|theorie}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|teoria}}
* French: {{t+|fr|théorie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Theorie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θεωρία|f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|सिद्धान्त|xs=Hindi}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|teoria|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|定理|tr=teiri}}, {{t+|ja|理論|tr=riron}}, {{t|ja|学説|tr=gakusetsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|теорија|f|tr=teórija}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|teorija|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|teori|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|teoria|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|teoria|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|teorie}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|теория|f|tr=teórija}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|теорија|f|alt=тѐо̄рија|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|teorija|f|alt=tèōrija}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|teoría|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|teori|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in logic: a set of axioms and all statements derivable from them}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|teoria|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|theorie}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|teoria}}
* German: {{t+|de|Theorie|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|teoria|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|定理|tr=teiri}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|теорија|f|tr=teórija}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|teori|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|teoria|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|teoria|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|teorii|p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|теория|f|tr=t'eórija}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|теорија|f|alt=тѐо̄рија|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|teorija|f|alt=tèōrija}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|teoría|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|teori|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: {{t-|id|teori|xs=Indonesian}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|teoria|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[이론]] (iron)
* {{ttbc|tr}}: {{t+|tr|teori}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: {{t|vi|thuyết|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|lý thuyết|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[axiom]]
* [[postulate]]
* [[proposition]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Check translations]]

[[ar:theory]]
[[cs:theory]]
[[de:theory]]
[[et:theory]]
[[el:theory]]
[[es:theory]]
[[eo:theory]]
[[fa:theory]]
[[fr:theory]]
[[ko:theory]]
[[hy:theory]]
[[io:theory]]
[[id:theory]]
[[it:theory]]
[[kn:theory]]
[[kk:theory]]
[[ku:theory]]
[[lo:theory]]
[[li:theory]]
[[hu:theory]]
[[ml:theory]]
[[my:theory]]
[[nl:theory]]
[[ja:theory]]
[[pl:theory]]
[[pt:theory]]
[[ru:theory]]
[[simple:theory]]
[[fi:theory]]
[[sv:theory]]
[[ta:theory]]
[[te:theory]]
[[tr:theory]]
[[vi:theory]]
[[zh:theory]]