==English==

===Etymology===
Allegedly from a mid-sixteenth-century statement by [[w:John Bradford|John Bradford]], "There but for the grace of God, goes John Bradford", in reference to a group of prisoners being led to execution.

A paraphrase from the Bible, 1 Corinthians 15:8–10, which states, "Last of all, as to one born abnormally, he appeared to me. For I am the least of the apostles, not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am...".

===Proverb===
{{head|en|proverb|head=[[there]] [[but for the grace of God]] [[go]] [[I]]}}

# A recognition that others' misfortune could be one's own, if it weren't for the blessing of the Divine.
# Humankind's fate is in [[God]]'s hands.
# ''More generally'', our fate is not entirely in our own hands.

====Usage notes====
* This proverb is an expression of humility; in using it, a speaker acknowledges that outside factors (such as [[God]]'s [[grace]], or one's [[upbringing]]) have played a role in one's success in life.
* The adverbial phrase is often set off with commas: "There, but for the grace of God, go I."
* Used also to express that one cannot judge others for their flaws for we are all equally flawed.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|humankind's fate is in God's hands}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|все под Богом хо́дим|tr=}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|others' misfortune could be one's own}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|רק במזל אני לא שם|sc=Hebr}}, {{t|he|רק בחסדי אלוהים זה לא קרה גם לי|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|so help me God}}