==English==

===Etymology===
The expletive ''[[there]]'', from {{etyl|ang|en}} ''{{l|ang|þær}}'', to fill the first position in an existential sentence of the [[verb-second]] word order.<ref>Leiv Egil Breivik and Toril Swan, ''The desemanticisation of existential ''there, in Christiane Dalton-Puffer ''et al.'' ed., ''Words: Structure, Meaning, Function'', Walter de Gruyter, 2000.</ref>

===Phrase===
{{head|en|verb|[[#Conjugation|highly irregular]]}}

# The specified thing [[exist]]s, physically or abstractly.
#* '''1749''', Anthony Ashley Cooper Shaftesbury, ''Characteristicks of Men, Manners, Opinions, Times'', J. Baskerville, page 8:
#*: If '''there be''' any thing ILL in the Univerſe from ''Deſign'', then that which diſpoſes all things, is no one good deſigning Principle.
#* '''1907''', Southern Society for Clinical Investigation, ''The American Journal of the Medical Sciences'', J.B. Lippincott, Co., page 627:
#*: Unless '''there be''' some lesion of the stomach, '''there is''' no blood, either microscopic or occult.
#* '''1988''', John S. Doskey, William Maclure, ''The European Journals of William Maclure'', {{ISBN|087169171X}}, page 204:
#*: '''There''' ought '''to be''' representation on the broad basis of population and public discussion with open doors and free debate. . . . Nor should '''there be''' any constraint upon the opinions of any of the members of the Diet or upon their right of publishing them, even though such would meet with opposition from without.
#* {{quote-text|year=1996|author=Diane Meyers|title=Disaster Response and Recovery: A Handbook for Mental Health Professionals|page=75|isbn=0788131265|passage='''There''' may '''be''' people with drug or alcohol problems who may go into withdrawal.}}
#* '''1999''', Christopher Shays, ''Anthrax Immunization Program'', “Hearing Before the Subcommittee on National Security, Veterans Affairs, and International Relationsof the Committee on Government Reform”, {{ISBN|0756718090}}, page 35:
#*: I just want to know the truth, you are expressing your concerns, but I also want '''there to be''' some candor between us.

====Usage notes====
* When introducing more than one [[noun phrase]], the verb agrees with the [[number]] of the first noun phrase.
*: '''''There is''' a swing and a seesaw for kids.''

====Conjugation====
{{rfinfl|en|verb}}
''infinitive'' '''[[there]] to [[be]]''', ''present singular'' '''[[there is]]''', ''plural'' '''[[there are]]''', ''gerund'' '''there being''', ''past singular'' '''[[there was]]''', ''plural'' '''[[there were]]''', ''present perfect singular'' '''[[there has been]]''', ''plural'' '''[[there have been]]'''

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to exist}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|daar's}}
* Albanian: {{t-needed|sq}}
* Arabic: {{qualifier|passive}} {{t+|ar|وُجِدَ}}
* Aragonese: {{t|an|haber-bi}}, {{t|an|haber-ie}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|լինել}}, {{t+|hy|կամ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|имам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|haver-hi}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|有|tr=yǒu|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|er}} ''+ any of the existence verbs'' {{t+|nl|zijn}}, {{t+|nl|bestaan}}, {{t+|nl|staan}}, {{t+|nl|zitten}}, {{t+|nl|liggen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|esti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|olla}}
* French: {{t+|fr|y avoir}} ({{t+|fr|il y a}})
* German: {{t|de|es gibt}} (+ [[accusative case]])
* Greek: {{t+|el|είμαι}}, {{t+|el|υπάρχω}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|יש|tr=yesh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|van}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|vera}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|bí ann}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|esserci}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|いる|tr=iru}} {{qualifier|animate}}, {{t+|ja|ある|tr=aru}} {{qualifier|inanimate}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|있다}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|sum}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|va būti}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|ada}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|nce stà}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|det er}}, {{t|no|det finnes}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|być|impf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|haver}}, {{t+|pt|existir}}, {{t+|pt|ter}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|быть}}, {{t+|ru|име́ться}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|haber}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|det finnas}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|may}}, {{t+|tl|mayroon}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|มี}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|var}} {{qualifier|Affimative}}, {{t+|tr|yok}} {{qualifier|Negative}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|có}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references />

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|be there}}

[[Category:English non-constituents]]