{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|them|when|if|52|there|more|out|into}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ðɛə/}}, {{SAMPA|/DE@/}}
*{{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ðɛɹ/}}, {{SAMPA|/DEr/}}
*{{audio|en-us-there.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|ɛə(r)}}

====Homophones====
*[[their]]
*[[they're]]

===Etymology===
{{ME.}} {{term|ther|lang=enm}} < {{OE.}} {{term|þær|lang=ang}} < {{proto|Germanic|þær}} < {{proto|Indo-European|tar-|there}} < {{PIE.}} demonstrative pronominal base *{{term|to-||the, that}} + adverbial suffix {{term|-r}}.
*Akin to Dutch {{term|daar|lang=nl}}, German {{term|da|lang=de}}, Old High German {{term|dār|lang=goh}}, Swedish {{term|där|lang=sv}}, Danish {{term|der|lang=da}}, Icelandic {{term|þar|lang=is}}, and Gothic {{term|þar|lang=got}}, Sanskrit {{term|tarhi||then|lang=sa}}, and English {{term|that}}. See {{term|that}} (pronoun).

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# In or at that place or location.
#*[They] '''there''' left me and my man, both bound together. — Shakespeare, ''Comedy of Errors, V-i''
#*The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and '''there''' he put the man whom he had formed. — ''Genesis 2:8''
#: '''Note:''' In distinction from [[here]], '''there''' usually signifies a place farther off, in such a manner, that [[here]] would include the person using the word, while '''there''' would not.
#*Darkness '''there''' might well seem twilight '''here'''. — [[Milton]]
# In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc., regarded as a distinct place; as, he did not stop '''there''', but continued his speech.
#*The law that threaten’d death becomes thy friend / And turns it to exile; '''there''' art thou happy. — Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet, III-iii''
# To or into that place; [[thither]].
#*The rarest that e’er came '''there'''. — Shakespeare, ''Tempest, II-i''
#: '''Note''': '''There''' is sometimes used by way of exclamation, calling attention to something, especially to something distant; as, '''There, there'''! See '''there'''! Look '''there'''! '''There''' is often used as an expletive, and in this use, when it introduces a sentence or clause, the verb precedes its subject.
#*A knight '''there''' was, and that a worthy man. — [[Chaucer]]
#*'''There''' is a path which no fowl knoweth. — ''Job 28:7''
#*Wherever '''there''' is a sense or perception, '''there''' some idea is actually produced. — [[Locke]]
#*'''There''' have been that have delivered themselves from their ills by their good fortune or virtue. — [[Suckling]]
#: '''Note:''' '''There''' is much used in composition, and often has the sense of a pronoun. See [[thereabout]], [[thereafter]], [[therefrom]], etc.
#: '''Note:''' '''There''' was formerly used in the sense of [[where]].
#*Spend their good '''there''' it is reasonable. — [[Chaucer]]
# (in conjunction with verb [[to be|be]]) In existence or in this world; mention of unspecified location, somewhere.
#:'''''there''' is something amiss.''

====Synonyms====
*{{sense|to or into that place}} [[thither]]

====Derived terms====
* [[here and there]]
* [[there are]]
* [[thereatop]]
* [[there be]]
* [[therefrom]]
* [[there is]]
* [[theretoward]]
* [[therewith]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in or at that place}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[daar]]
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|aty|xs=Albanian}}, {{t+|sq|atje|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: ‎{{ARchar|[[هناك|هُنَاكَ]]}} (hunáːka), ‎{{ARchar|[[هنالك|هُنَالِكَ]]}} (hunáːlika)
* Arabic, Egyptian: {{ARchar|[[هناك]]}} (hinaak)
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܬܡܢ]] (tamān, tamon)
*: Hebrew: [[תמן]] (tamān, tamon)
* Bulgarian: [[там]] (tam)
* [[Catalan]]: [[allà]], [[allí]]
* Chinese: [[那里]]/[[那裡]] (nàli), [[那兒]] (nà+ér=nàr)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|ondje}}, {{t-|hr|tamo}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|tam}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|der}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|daar}}, {{t-|nl|ginder}}, {{t-|nl|ginds}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tie|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish:
** (''when the place'' '''''is pointed at''''': )
*::: [[tuolla]] (''the place more distant or less accurately confined'')
*::: [[tuossa]] (-"- ''less distant or more accurately confined'')
*:* (''when the place'' '''''is not pointed at''''':)
*::: [[siellä]] (''the place more distant or less accurately confined'')
*::: [[siinä]] (-"- ''less distant or more accurately confined'')
* French: {{t+|fr|là}}, {{t+|fr|là-bas}}
* German: {{t+|de|dort}}, {{t+|de|da}}
* Greek: [[εκεί]] (ekí)
* [[Guaraní]]: [[upépe]]
* Hebrew: [[‎שם]]‎ (sham)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ott}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þarna}}, {{t+|is|þar}}, {{t+|is|það}}
* [[Ido]]: [[ibe]]
* Indonesian: [[situ]] ''(less distant)'', [[sana]] ''(more distant)''
* Irish: {{t-|ga|ansin|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|là}}, {{t+|it|ivi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|そこ|tr=sokó|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|あそこ|tr=asokó|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[거기]][[에]] (geogi-e)
* [[Lakota]]: [[heci]]
* Latin: [[ibi]], [[illic]], [[istic]]
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|ten|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Luxembourgish]]: [[do#Luxembourgish|do]]
* Navajo: [[aadi]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|der}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|tam}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aí}}, {{t+|pt|ali}}, {{t+|pt|lá}}
* [[Quechua]]: [[jaqaypi]] ''(-pi = [[locative case]])''
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|acolo}}, {{t-|ro|colo}}
* Russian: [[там]] (tam)
* Sardinian (Campidanese): [[inni]]
* Sardinian (Nugorese): [[incúe]]
* Serbian: [[тамо]] (tamo)
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|tam}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|tam}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|allí}}, {{t+|es|ahí}}, {{t+|es|allá}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|där}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|అక్కడ|tr=akkaDa|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: [[şurada]] ''(less distant)'', [[ora]], [[orada]] ''(more distant)''
* Ukrainian: [[там]] (tam)
* Vietnamese: [[đằng kia]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc.}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|atje|xs=Albanian}}
* Bulgarian: [[тук]] (tuk)
* Greek: [[ιδού]] (iðú), [[να]] (ná)
* Latin: [[ibi]], [[illic]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|där}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to or into that place; thither}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|andej|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: ‎{{ARchar|[[الى هناك|إلَى هُنَاكَ]]}} (íla hunáːka)
* Bulgarian: [[натам]] (natam), [[нататък]] (natatäk)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|tamo}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|tam}}
* Danish: [[did#Danish|did]], [[derhen]]
* Dutch: [[daarheen]], [[aldaar]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tien|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish:
** (''when the place'' '''''is pointed at''''': )
*::: [[tuonne]] (''the place more distant or less accurately confined'')
*::: [[tuohon]] (-"- ''less distant or more accurately confined'')
*:* (''when the place'' '''''is not pointed at''''':)
*::: [[sinne]] (''the place more distant or less accurately confined'')
*::: [[siihen]] (-"- ''less distant or more accurately confined'')
* German: [[dorthin]], [[dahin]]
* Greek: [[εκείσε]] (ekíse), [[προς τα εκεί]] (pros ta ekí)
* Hebrew: [[‎לשם]]‎ (le-shám)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|oda}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þangað}}
* Indonesian: [[ke situ]] ''(less distant)'', [[ke sana]] ''(more distant)''
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|ansin|xs=Irish}}
* Japanese: [[そこへ]] (sokó e), [[あそこへ]] (asokó e)
* Latin: [[eo]], [[illuc]], [[istuc]]
* [[Quechua]]: [[jaqayman]] ''(-man = [[illative case]])''
* Russian: {{t+|ru|туда|tr=tudá|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: [[тамо]] (tamo)
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|tja}}
* Spanish: [[por allí]], [[hacia allá]]
* Swedish: [[dit]] (''as exclamation: [[där]]'')
* [[Telugu]]: [[అక్కడ]] (akkaDa)
* Turkish: [[şuraya]] ''(less distant)'', [[oraya]] ''(more distant)''
* Ukrainian: [[туди]] (tudy)
* Vietnamese: [[đằng kia]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# Used to [[console]] or [[encourage]] someone.
#:'' '''There, there!'''''

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

[[ar:there]]
[[es:there]]
[[fa:there]]
[[fr:there]]
[[ko:there]]
[[hy:there]]
[[io:there]]
[[it:there]]
[[kk:there]]
[[ku:there]]
[[li:there]]
[[hu:there]]
[[nl:there]]
[[ja:there]]
[[pl:there]]
[[pt:there]]
[[ru:there]]
[[simple:there]]
[[fi:there]]
[[sv:there]]
[[ta:there]]
[[te:there]]
[[vi:there]]
[[tr:there]]
[[uk:there]]
[[zh:there]]
there is also a site which you can have a virtual life on your computer