{{wikipedia|dab=throw}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/θɹəʊ/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/θɻoʊ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-throw.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|əʊ}}
* {{homophones|throe|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|throwen|lang=enm}}, {{term|thrawen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|þrawan|þrāwan|to turn, twist, curl, rack, torture, turn around|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|þrēanan|to turn|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|ter-|to rub, rub by twisting, twist, turn|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|thraw||to twist, turn, throw|lang=sco}}, Dutch {{term|draaien||to turn|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|draien|lang=nds}}, {{term|dreien||to turn (in a lathe)|lang=nds}}, German {{term|drehen||to turn|lang=de}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|dreje||to turn|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|dreja||to turn|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|sq|-}} {{term|dredh, ndrydh||to turn, twist, press|lang=sq}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|throws|throwing|threw|thrown}}

# {{transitive}} To cause an [[object]] to move [[rapidly]] through the [[air]].
# {{transitive}} To [[eject]] or cause to fall off.
#: '''''throw''' a shoe''
#: '''''throw''' a rod''
#: ''the horse '''threw''' its rider''
# {{transitive}} To move to another [[position]]; to [[displace]].
#: '''''throw''' the switch''
# {{context|ceramics}} To make (a [[pot]]) by shaping [[clay]] as it turns on a [[wheel]].
# {{transitive|cricket}} Of a [[bowler]], to [[deliver]] (the ball) [[illegally]] by [[straighten]]ing the [[bowling]] arm during delivery.
# {{transitive|computing}} To send (an [[error]]) to an [[exception]]-handling mechanism in order to [[interrupt]] normal [[processing]].
#: ''If the file is read-only, the method '''throws''' an invalid operation exception.''
# {{sports}} to intentionally [[lose]] a game
#: ''The tennis player was accused of taking bribes to '''throw''' the match.
# {{transitive|informal}} To [[confuse]] or [[mislead]].
#: ''The deliberate red herring '''threw''' me at first.''
#* '''1999''', Jan Blackstone-Ford, ''The Custody Solutions Sourcebook'' - Page 196
#*: "Jann, why does he hate me so much?" That question '''threw''' me. I was expecting a lunatic yelling profanities.
# {{figuratively}} To send desperately
#* {{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 28
|author=Marc Vesty
|title=Stoke 0 - 2 Fulham
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9306533.stm
|page=
|passage=Stoke '''threw''' men forward in numbers as they attempted to find a way back into the game, and Mark Schwarzer was forced into a low save from Huth's close-range effort. }}
# {{transitive}} To [[imprison]].
#* '''1993''', Margaret McKee, Fred Chisenhall, ''Beale black & blue: life and music on black America's main street'' - Page 30
#*: The standard method of dealing with an addict was to arrest him, '''throw''' him into a cell, and leave him until the agonizing pangs of withdrawal were over.
#* '''1818''', {{w|Mary Shelley}}, ''{{w|Frankenstein}}''
#*: The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were '''thrown''' into prison.
# To organize an event, especially a [[party]].
#* {{quote-news
|year=1986
|date=March 1
|author=
|title=Bash Planned
|work=Evening News
|url=http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=RTpRAAAAIBAJ&sjid=sTMNAAAAIBAJ&pg=6403,4161&dq=throwing-a-bash&hl=en
|page=
|passage=And now, Clevelanders hoping to bring the Rock Roll Hall of Fame to their city are '''throwing''' a bash to commemorate the 34th birthday of disc Jockey Alan Freed's "Moondog Coronation Ball".
}}
#* '''1979''', Working Mother - July 1979 Page 72[http://books.google.com/books?id=SWEEAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA72&dq=%22throw+a+party%22&hl=en&ei=KGUeTbvyA426hAfw6OC3Dg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFkQ6AEwCTgK#v=onepage&q=%22throw%20a%20party%22&f=false]
#*: Should you be interested, for whatever reason, it will tell you how to '''throw a party''' for your 40-year-old husband or your 100-year-old great-grandmother. It also describes games that can be played at various kinds of parties...
# To [[roll]] (a [[die]] or [[dice]]).
#* '''1844''', Samuel Laing translating {{w|Snorri Sturluson}}, ''Heimskringla''
#*: The kings came to the agreement between themselves that they would cast lots by the dice to determine who should have this property, and that he who threw the highest should have the district. The Swedish king threw two sixes, and said King Olaf need scarcely '''throw'''.
# {{transitive}} To cause a certain number on the [[die]] or [[dice]] to be shown after rolling it.
#* '''1844''', Samuel Laing translating {{w|Snorri Sturluson}}, ''Heimskringla''
#*: The kings came to the agreement between themselves that they would cast lots by the dice to determine who should have this property, and that he who '''threw''' the highest should have the district. The Swedish king '''threw''' two sixes, and said King Olaf need scarcely throw.
# {{transitive|bridge}} To [[discard]]
#* {{quote-news
|year=1990
|date=January 4
|author=
|title=Sharp coup overcomes trump split
|work=The Washington Times
|url=http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=WT&p_theme=wt&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&p_topdoc=1&p_text_direct-0=0EB0EE986FB9BC0E&p_field_direct-0=document_id&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&s_trackval=GooglePM
|page=
|passage=Declarer '''threw''' his queen of spades on the high diamond. He then won the last three tricks with his ace, queen and nine of hearts behind East's jack third.
}}
# {{context|martial arts}} To lift the opponent off the ground and bring him back down, especially into a position behind the thrower.
# {{transitive}} To subject someone to verbally.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2007
|date=June 11
|author=Claude Salhani
|title=Analysis: Irony of Bush's European tour
|work=UPI
|url=http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/06/11/Analysis-Irony-of-Bushs-European-tour/UPI-12171181568318/
|page=
|passage=In other European cities the president visited this week, people waited for his motorcade to pass to '''throw''' insults at him, requiring the police to intervene with batons, water cannons and tear gas.
}}
# {{transitive|said of animals}} To [[give birth]] to.
#* '''1916''', Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association: Volume 49
#*: At the end of the normal gestation period the cow '''threw''' two calf mummies as large as cats.
# {{transitive|said of one's voice}} To change in order to give the illusion that the voice is that of someone else.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2005
|date=April 13
|author=Leon Neyfakh
|title=BOOKENDS: Will the Real Jonathan Safran Foer Please Stand Up
|work=Harvard Crimson
|url=http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2005/4/13/bookends-will-the-real-jonathan-safran/
|page=
|passage=“Then, when I '''throw''' my voice, when I speak as someone who's quite different from me, it starts to feel very authentic.”}}
# {{transitive}} To show sudden [[emotion]], especially anger.
#* '''1996''', New York Magazine Vol. 29, No. 32 - 19 Aug 1996; ''Entertaining Mrs Stone''
#*: In 1975, pregnant with the second of her three children, she '''threw''' a hissy fit to get on a trip to Boston for elected officials.
#* '''1991''', Janet L. Davies, Ellen Hastings Janosik, ''Mental health and psychiatric nursing: a caring approach''
#*: Bill runs into the kitchen and tells Dad that Erik is '''throwing''' a tantrum. He tells Bill to go back and watch his program and to ignore his brother. Fifteen minutes later, Erik is still screaming...
# {{transitive}} To [[project]] or [[send forth]]
#* '''1900''', [[w:Charles W. Chesnutt|Charles W. Chesnutt]], ''The House Behind the Cedars'', Chapter I,
#*: Warwick left the undertaker's shop and retraced his steps until he had passed the lawyer's office, toward which he '''threw''' an affectionate glance.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|cause an object to move rapidly through the air}} [[bowl]], [[bung]], [[buzz]], [[cast]], [[catapult]], [[chuck]], [[dash]], [[direct]], [[fire]], [[fling]], [[flip]], [[heave]], [[hurl]], [[launch]], [[lob]], [[pitch]], [[project]], [[propel]], [[send]], [[shoot]], [[shy]], [[sling]], [[toss]], [[whang]]
* {{sense|eject or cause to fall off}} [[eject]], throw off
* {{sense|move to another position}} [[displace]], [[relocate]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:throw]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''throw''}}
* [[a stone's throw]]
* [[overthrow]]
* [[throw a bone to]]
* [[throw a fit]]
* [[throw away]]<!--verb-->, [[throw-away]]<!--adjective,noun-->
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[throw a wobbly]]
* [[throwback]]
* [[throw down the gauntlet]]
* [[throw in the sponge]]
* [[throw in the towel]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[throwing]]<!--as in "throwing arm"-->
* [[throw shapes]]
* [[throw the book at]]
* [[throw up]]
* [[throw one's weight around]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to cause an object to move rapidly through the air}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|صب|tr=Sábba}}, {{t|ar|رمى|tr=rámmaa}}, {{t|ar|اندفع|tr=indafa`a}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նետել|tr=netel}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|baciti}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|llançar}},  {{t+|ca|tirar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|zh|抛|tr=pāo|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|zh|投|tr=tóu|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|zh|鑄|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|zh|铸|tr=zhù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|zh|扔|tr=rēng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vrhnout}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|kaste}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|werpen}}, {{t+|nl|gooien}}, {{t+|nl|smijten}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|kasta|xs=Faroese}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}}, {{t-|fi|viskata}}, {{t+|fi|nakata}};
*: (''repeatedly, continuously and/or indifferently'') [[heitellä]], [[viskoa]], [[viskellä]], [[nakella]], [[paiskoa]]
*: (''suddenly and/or forcefully'') [[viskaista]], [[paiskata]], [[paiskaista]]
* French: {{t+|fr|jeter}}, {{t+|fr|lancer}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|lanzar|xs=Galician}},  {{t+|gl|tirar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|werfen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ρίχνω|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|זרק|tr=zarák}}, {{t-|he|העיף|tr=he'íf}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|dob}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kasta}},  {{t|is|fleygja}},  {{t-|is|henda}},  {{t+|is|varpa}},  {{t+|is|verpa}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|gettare}}, {{t+|it|lanciare}},  {{t+|it|tirare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|投げる|tr=なげる, nageru}}, {{t|ja|投じる|tr=とうじる, tōjiru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: [[souîndgi]]
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[هاوێشتن]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[فڕێدان]]}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|svīst}}, {{tø|ltg|svaideit}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|iacto}},  {{t+|la|iacio}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|mest}}, {{t|lv|sviest}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|geheien}}
* Neapolitan: {{tø|nap|iettà}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kaste}}, {{t|no|hive}}
* Polish: [[rzucać]] / [[rzucić]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lançar}}, {{t+|pt|atirar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|arunca}}
* Romansch: {{t-|rm|bittar|xs=Romansch}},  {{t|rm|lantschar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|бросать|tr=brosátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|бросить|tr=brósitʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|кидать|tr=kidátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|кинуть|tr=kínutʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|метать|tr=metátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|метнуть|tr=metnútʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|швырять|tr=švyrjátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|швырнуть|tr=švyrnútʹ}} {{pf.}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|tilg|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|hodiť}}, {{t+|sk|vrhnúť}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vreči}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzar}},  {{t+|es|tirar}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|kutupa|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kasta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to eject or cause to fall off}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նետել|tr=netel}}, {{t-|hy|գցել|tr=gc'el}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|afwerpen}}
* Finnish: [[heittää]] ([[maa|maahan]]), [[viskata]] ([[maa|maahan]]), [[nakata]] ([[maa|maahan]]), [[paiskata]] ([[maa|maahan]]);
*: (''repeatedly, continuously and/or indifferently'') [[heitellä]]/[[viskoa]]/[[viskellä]]/[[nakella]]/[[paiskoa]] ([[maa|maahan]])
*: (''suddenly and/or forcefully'') [[viskaista]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|זרק|tr=zarák}}, {{t-|he|העיף|tr=he'íf}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|投げる|tr=nageru}}, {{t|ja|投じる|tr=tōjiru}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[هاوێشتن]]}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|kaste}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|сбрасывать|tr=sbrásyvatʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|сбросить|tr=sbrósitʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|скидывать|tr=skídyvatʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|скинуть|tr=skínutʹ}} {{pf.}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|tilg|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move to another position}}
* Dutch: [[omgooien]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kääntää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déplacer}}, {{t+|fr|bouger}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|переключать|tr=pereključátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|переключить|tr=pereključítʹ}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|make (a pot) by shaping clay as it turns on a wheel}}
* Dutch: [[kleien]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|dreijata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|лепить|tr=lepítʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|слепить|tr=slepítʹ}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cricket, to deliver (the ball) illegally by straightening the bowling arm during delivery}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: send (an error) to an exception-handling mechanism}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sports: to intentionally lose a game}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|手を抜く|tr=te wo nuku}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[ĵeti]]
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[werfen]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[lempar|melempar]], [[lontar|melontarkan]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[던지다]] (deonjida)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ku}}: [[avêtin]]
* {{ttbc|gd}}: [[tilg]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[arrojar]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[విసురు]] (visuru)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[flight]] of a thrown object; as, a fast throw.
# The act of throwing something.
# A [[distance]] [[travel]]led; [[displace]]ment; as, the throw of the piston.
# A piece of [[fabric]] used to cover a bed, sofa or other soft furnishing.
# A single instance, occurrence, venture, or chance.
#: ''Football tickets are expensive at fifty bucks a '''throw'''.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|flight of a thrown object}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|worp|m}}, {{t-|nl|gooi|m}}
* Esperanto: [[ĵeto]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|heitto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jet|m}}, {{t+|fr|lancement|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ρίψη|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|זריקה|f|tr=zriká}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|投げ|tr=nage}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|kast|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бросок|m|tr=brosók}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|met|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|lanzamiento|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kast|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a distance travelled}}
* Dutch: [[verplaatsing]] {{f}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|kast|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[бросок]] (brosók) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|piece of fabric used to cover a bed, sofa or other soft furnishing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|peite}}, {{t-|fi|päällinen}}, {{t+|fi|peitto}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|teppe|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|покрывало|n|tr=pokryválo}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|överkast|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|single instance, occurrence, venture, or chance}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kappale}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[throw pillow]]
* [[throw-up]]

====References====
* Krueger, Dennis (December 1982). "Why On Earth Do They Call It Throwing?" ''Studio Potter'' Vol. 11, Number 1.[http://www.studiopotter.org/articles/?art=art0001]

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|enm}} ''throwe'', alteration of ''thrawe'' from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|þrawu|þrāwu|labor pang, agony in childbirth or death|lang=ang}}, akin to Old English {{term|þrea|þrēa|affliction, pang|lang= ang}}, {{term|þrowan|þrōwan|to suffer|lang= ang}}. More at [[throe]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Pain, especially pain associated with childbirth; [[throe]]
# {{context|veterinary}} The act of giving birth in animals, especially in [[cow]]s.

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|þrah|þrāh||lang=ang}}, {{term|þrag|þrāg|space of time, period, while|lang=ang}}. Of uncertain origin. Perhaps related to {{etyl|got|-}} {{term|𐌸𐍂𐌰𐌲𐌾𐌰𐌽||tr=þragjan|to run|lang=got|sc=Goth}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} A [[moment]], [[time]], [[occasion]].
# {{obsolete}} A period of time; a [[while]].
#* '''1590''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', III.iv:
#*: Downe himselfe he layd / Vpon the grassie ground, to sleepe a '''throw'''; / The cold earth was his couch, the hard steele his pillow.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|en|stound}}

===Anagrams===
* [[worth#English|worth]]
* [[wroth#English|wroth]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:en:Bedding]]

[[cs:throw]]
[[cy:throw]]
[[de:throw]]
[[et:throw]]
[[el:throw]]
[[es:throw]]
[[eu:throw]]
[[fr:throw]]
[[gl:throw]]
[[ko:throw]]
[[hr:throw]]
[[io:throw]]
[[it:throw]]
[[kn:throw]]
[[kk:throw]]
[[ku:throw]]
[[lt:throw]]
[[li:throw]]
[[hu:throw]]
[[mg:throw]]
[[ml:throw]]
[[my:throw]]
[[fj:throw]]
[[nl:throw]]
[[ja:throw]]
[[pl:throw]]
[[pt:throw]]
[[ru:throw]]
[[simple:throw]]
[[fi:throw]]
[[sv:throw]]
[[ta:throw]]
[[te:throw]]
[[th:throw]]
[[tr:throw]]
[[uk:throw]]
[[vi:throw]]
[[zh:throw]]