{{see|thundër}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} {{term|þunor}}. Compare Persian {{fa-Arab|[[تندر]]}} (tondar).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}: {{IPA|/ˈθʌn.də/}}, {{SAMPA|/"TVnd@/}}
* {{a|US}}: {{enPR|/thŭn'dər/}}, {{IPA|/ˈθʌn.dɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"TVnd@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-thunder.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌndə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|-}}

# The [[sound]] caused by the discharge of atmospheric electrical charge.
#: '''''Thunder''' ''is preceded by [[lightning]].''
# A sound resembling thunder.
# A deep, [[rumble|rumbling]] noise.
#: ''Off in the distance, he heard the '''thunder''' of hoofbeats, signalling a [[stampede]].''

====Usage notes====
* [[roll]], [[clap]], [[peal]] are some of the words used to count thunder.

====Derived terms====
* [[thunder and lightning]]<!--figurative sense-->
* [[thunderbird]]
* [[thunderbolt]]
*[[thunderboomer]]
* [[thunderbox]]
* [[thunderclap]]
* [[thundercloud]]
* [[thunderhead]]
* [[thunderous]]
* [[thundersquall]]
* [[thunderstorm]]
* [[thunder thighs]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the sound caused by the discharge of atmospheric electrical charge}}
* Chinese: [[雷]] (léi)
* Czech: [[hrom]] {{m}}, [[zahřmění]] {{n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|donder|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ukkonen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tonnerre|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Donner|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|mennydörgés}}, {{t|hu|égzengés}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|tuono|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|雷|tr=kaminarí|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[우레]] (ure)
* Polish: [[grzmot]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|trovão|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гром|m|tr=grom|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[tàirneanach]] {{f}}
* Serbian: [[grom]], [[grmljavina]]
* Slovene: [[grom]] {{m}}, [[grmenje]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|trueno|m}}
* Swahili: [[radi]] ''(nc 9/10)''
* Swedish: [[åska]] {{c}}, (åsk)[[smäll]] {{c}}
* Thai: {{THchar|[[สายฟ้า]]}} (săaifáa)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a sound resembling thunder}}
* Czech: [[zahřmění]] {{n}}, [[hromová rána]] {{f}}, [[hřmění]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jyrinä}}
* German: {{t-|de|Donnern|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|dörgés}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|雷鳴|tr=raimei|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[grzmot]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[гром]] (grom) {{m}}, [[грохот]] (gróxot) {{m}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[tàirneanach]] {{f}}
* Serbian: [[grmnjevit]], [[grmnjevito]], [[zagrmeti]]
* Slovene: [[grmenje]] {{n}}
* Swedish: [[åskmuller]] {{n}}, [[muller]] {{n}}, [[åskdån]] {{n}}, [[dån]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a deep, rumbling noise}}
* Czech: [[hřmění]] {{n}}, [[dunění]] {{n}}
* Finnish: [[jyrinä]], [[jylinä]], [[pauhu]]
* German: {{t-|de|Donnern|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|robaj}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|轟音|tr=gō'on|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[grzmot]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|рокот|m|tr=rókot|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[tàirneanach]] {{f}}
* Slovene: [[grmenje]] {{n}}
* Swedish: [[mullrande]] {{n}}, [[dån]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[رعد]]}} {{IPAchar|(raʕd)}} {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[kurun]] {{f}}, [[taran]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[tondro]]
* {{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[sunu]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[gelegar]], [[suara]] [[petir]], [[suara halilintar]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[tonitro]]
* {{ttbc|Kinyarwanda}}: [[inkuba]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[birûsk]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[torden]]
* [[rugiente]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[ఉరుము]] (urumu)
* {{ttbc|Thai}}: {{THchar|[[สายฟ้า]]}} (săaifáa)
* {{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[tupã sununga]]
* {{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[taranau]], [[taran]] ''(peal of thunder)'', [[tyrfau]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|intransitive}} To make a [[noise]] like thunder.
# {{context|intransitive}} To talk with a [[loud]], [[threatening]] voice.
# {{context|transitive}} To say (something) with a loud, threatening voice.

====Derived terms====
* {{sense|to say something with a loud, threatening voice}} [[thunderer]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make a noise like thunder}}
* [[Breton]]: [[ober]] [[kurun]], [[taranal]] / [[taraniñ]]
* Czech: [[hřmít]]
* Dutch: [[donderen]]
* Finnish: [[ukkostaa]], [[jyristä]], [[pauhata]]
* French: {{t+|fr|tonner}}
* German: {{t-|de|donnern}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|tuonare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|轟音を立てる|tr=gō'on wo tateru|sc=Jpan}}
<!-- *Japanese: [[雷が鳴る]] ([[かみなり]]が[[なる]], kaminarí ga narú)
* This means 'it thunders.' I cannot sure this is a common English usage.
by Eveningmist, 04:37, 9 January 2008 (UTC)
-->
* Polish: [[grzmieć]], [[zagrzmieć]]
* Portuguese: [[trovoar]], [[trovejar]]
* Russian: [[греметь]] (gr'em'ét’), [[грохотать]] (groχotát’)
* Slovene: [[grmeti]]
* Swedish: [[dundra]], [[dåna]]
* Thai: {{THchar|[[สายฟ้าฟาด]]}} (săaifáa fâat)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to talk with a loud, threatening voice}}
* [[Breton]]: [[taranal]], [[taraniñ]]
* Czech: [[hřmít]], [[hromovat]]
* Dutch: [[overdonderen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jyristä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déblatérer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|怒鳴る|tr=donaru|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: [[gromić]]
* Portuguese: [[trovejar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transitive: say something with a loud, threatening voice}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|怒鳴る|tr=donaru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans-top}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[tondri]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[foudroyer]]
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[donnern]]
* {{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[sunu]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[gelegar]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[tonar]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[tonare]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[tordne]]
* {{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[sunung]]
* {{ttbc|Thai}}: {{THchar|[[ฟ้าผ่า]]}} (fáapàa)
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Weather]]

[[ang:thunder]]
[[ar:thunder]]
[[de:thunder]]
[[es:thunder]]
[[fa:thunder]]
[[fr:thunder]]
[[ko:thunder]]
[[io:thunder]]
[[id:thunder]]
[[it:thunder]]
[[hu:thunder]]
[[pl:thunder]]
[[ru:thunder]]
[[simple:thunder]]
[[fi:thunder]]
[[sv:thunder]]
[[ta:thunder]]
[[te:thunder]]
[[vi:thunder]]
[[zh:thunder]]