{{also|Tide|tìde}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|tide (disambiguation)}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|tīd}}, {{IPA|/taɪd/}}, {{SAMPA|/taId/}}
* {{audio|en-us-tide.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪd}}
* {{homophones|tied}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|tide|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|tid|tīd|lang=ang}} 'time, while', from {{proto|Germanic|tīðiz}} (compare West Frisian {{term|tiid|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|tijd|lang=nl}}, German {{term|Zeit|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|tid|lang=sv}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|dīti-|lang=en}} (compare Welsh ''dydd'' 'day', Albanian ''ditë'' 'day', Ancient Greek {{term|δαίεσθαι|tr=daíesthai|lang=grc}}, {{term|δαΐζω|tr=daḯzō|lang=grc}} 'to divide, distribute', Old Armenian {{term|տի|tr=ti||age|lang=xcl}}, Sanskrit ''dīti'' 'brightness; time', {{rfscript|Deva}}), Kurdish [[dem]] 'time'. Compare {{term|tidings}}, {{term|tidy}}, {{term|till}} (preposition). Related to [[time]], [[tin]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
{{wikipedia}}

# The [[periodic]] change of the [[sea level]], particularly when caused by the [[gravitational]] influence of the sun and the moon.
# A stream, current or [[flood]].
#: {{rfdate}} ''Let in the '''tide''' of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide.'' &mdash; Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens'', III-iv
# {{context|chronology|obsolete|except in [[liturgy]]}} Time, notably [[anniversary]], period or [[season]] linked to an ecclesiastical feast.
#: {{rfdate}} And rest their weary limbs a '''tide''' &mdash; [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]]
#: {{rfdate}} ''Which, at the appointed '''tide''', Each one did make his bride'' &mdash; [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]]
#: {{rfdate}} ''At the '''tide''' of Christ his birth — [[w:Fuller|Fuller]]
# {{mining}} The period of twelve hours.
# Something which changes like the tides of the sea.
# Tendency or direction of causes, influences, or events; course; current.
#: {{rfdate}} ''There is a '''tide''' in the affairs of men, Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.'' &mdash; Shakespeare. ''Julius Caesar'', IV-iii
# {{obsolete}} Violent [[confluence]] &mdash; [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''tide (noun)''}}
* [[astronomical tide]]
* [[atmospheric tide]]
* [[ebb tide]]
* [[gravitational tide]]
* [[high tide]]
* [[hurricane tide]]
* [[inferior tide]]<!-- See under [[inferior]] {{qualifier|adjective}} -->
* [[king tide]]
* [[land tide]]
* [[low tide]]
* [[neap tide]]
* [[oceanic tide]]
* [[red tide]]
* [[rip tide]]
* [[spring tide]]
* [[storm tide]]
* [[terrestrial tide]]
* [[thermal tide]]
* [[tidal]]
* [[tidal wave]]
* [[tide day]]
* [[tide crack]]
* [[tide current]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[tide dial]]
* [[tide-driven]]
* [[tide duty]]
* [[tide gate]]
* [[tide gauge]]
* [[tide harbour]], [[tide harbor]]
* [[tide hour]]
* [[tide land]]
* [[tidelands oil]]
* [[tideless]]
* [[tide lock]]
* [[tide mark]]
* [[tide mill]]
* [[tide pole]]
* [[tide pool]]
* [[tide power]]
* [[tide predictor]]
* [[tide railroad]]
* [[tide rip]]
* [[tide rock]]
* [[tide rode]]
* [[tide runner]]
* [[tidesman]]
* [[tide stream]]
* [[tide table]]
* [[tide waiter]], [[tidewaiter]]
* [[tidewater]], [[tide water]]
* [[tide wave]]
* [[tide way]]
* [[tide wheel]]
* [[tidy]]
* [[work double tides]]
* [[Ascensiontide]]
* [[Christmastide]]
* [[Eastertide]]
* [[Passiontide]]
* [[Rogationtide]]
* [[Whitsuntide]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|periodic change of sea level}}
* {{trreq|Bulgarian}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|marea|f}}
* Czech: [[příliv]] {{m}} {{qualifier|high tide}}, [[odliv]] {{m}} {{qualifier|low tide}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|getijde|n}}, {{t-|nl|tij|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vuorovesi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marée|f}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gezeiten|p}}
* Greek: {{t|el|παλίρροια|f|tr=palírroia|sc=Grek}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|taoide|f|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t|it|marea|f}}
* Japanese: [[潮]] (しお, ''shio'')
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Korean}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|aestus|m}}
* Macedonian: {{qualifier|high tide}} {{t|mk|плима|f|tr=plíma}}, {{t-|mk|прилив|m|tr=príliv}}, {{qualifier|low tide}} {{t-|mk|осека|f|tr=óseka}}, {{t|mk|одлев|m|tr=ódliv}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|pływ|m}}, {{t|pl|przypływ|m}} {{qualifier|high}}, {{t|pl|odpływ|m}} {{qualifier|low}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|maré|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|maree|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прилив|m|alt=прили́в}}
* Serbian: (high tide): [[plima]] {{f}}, [[priliv]] {{m}}, (low tide): [[oseka]] {{f}}, [[odliv]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marea}}
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a current or stream in sea or tidal river}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ρεύμα|n|tr=révma|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|χείμαρρος|m|tr=cheímarros|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ström}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|time, notably liturgical anniversary or season}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|getijde|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tendency or direction of causes, influences or events; course; current}}
* French: {{t|fr|tendance|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ροπή|f|tr=ropí|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[pasang]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[marea]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|vo}}: [[taid]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tid|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[cause]] to [[float]] with the tide; to [[drive]] or [[carry]] with the tide or stream.
#: ''They are '''tided''' down the stream. &mdash; [[Feltham]]?
# {{intransitive}} To [[pour]] a tide or flood.
#: ''The ocean '''tided''' most impressively, even frightening
# {{intransitive|nautical}} To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[tide over]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|cause to float with the tide}}
* Dutch: met het getij/de vloed [[meevoeren]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|πάω με το ρεύμα|tr=páo me to révma|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[ebb]]
* [[flow]]
* [[neap]]
* [[spring]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} [[tiden]], tide, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|tidan|tīdan|to happen|lang=ang}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|tid|ing}}

# {{intransitive|obsolete}} To [[happen]], [[occur]].
# ''What should us '''tide''' of this new law?'' &mdash; Chaucer.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[betide]], [[befall]]

===Anagrams===
* [[diet]]
* [[edit]]
* [[tied]]

[[Category:English terms with homophones]]
[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Middle English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[tid]], [[tyd]]

===Noun===
{{head|enm|noun}}

# A [[time]] (period), [[season]].
#: This lusty summer’s '''tide''' &mdash; [[w:Geoffrey Chaucer|Geoffrey Chaucer]]

====Related terms====
* [[betide]]

----

==Old English==

===Noun===
{{head|ang|noun form|head=tīde}}

# {{plural of|tid|tīd|lang=ang|nocat=1}}
# {{form of|accusative singular|tid|tīd|lang=ang}}
# {{form of|genitive singular|tid|tīd|lang=ang}}
# {{form of|dative singular|tid|tīd|lang=ang}}
# {{form of|accusative plural|tid|tīd|lang=ang}}

[[de:tide]]
[[et:tide]]
[[es:tide]]
[[eu:tide]]
[[fa:tide]]
[[fr:tide]]
[[ko:tide]]
[[io:tide]]
[[it:tide]]
[[kn:tide]]
[[ku:tide]]
[[hu:tide]]
[[ml:tide]]
[[my:tide]]
[[nl:tide]]
[[pl:tide]]
[[ru:tide]]
[[fi:tide]]
[[ta:tide]]
[[te:tide]]
[[tr:tide]]
[[vi:tide]]
[[zh:tide]]