==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|Time|ese|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{context|chiefly|US|lang=en}} A [[style]] of [[writing]] found in [[w:Time_(magazine)|''Time'' magazine]], especially during its early decades, characterized by [[exaggeration]], [[catchy]] [[phrasing]], and [[offbeat]] word order.
#* '''1989''' March 5, "[http://www.nytimes.com/1989/03/05/us/a-magazine-became-a-giant.html A Magazine Became a Giant]," ''New York Times'', p. 38 <small>(retrieved 24 Feb 2014)</small>:
#*: The company's first publication was ''Time'', a new kind of weekly magazine that chronicled the affairs of the world in a stylized prose of inverted nouns and verbs that came to be known as '''Timese'''.
#* '''1998''' March 9, "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,987956-3,00.html 75 Years Of Miscellany]," ''Time'' <small>(retrieved 30 Dec 2007)</small>:
#*: "Prosy was the first issue of ''Time'' on March 3, 1923. Yet to suggest itself as a rational method of communication, of infuriating readers into buying the magazine, was strange inverted Timestyle. It was months before [editor Briton] Hadden's impish contempt for his readers, his impatience with the English language, crystallized into gibberish. By the end of the first year, however, Timeditors were calling people able, potent, nimble. 'Great word! Great word!' would crow Hadden, coming upon 'snaggle-toothed,' 'pig-faced.' Appearing also were first gratuitous invasions of privacy. Stressed was the bastardy of Ramsay MacDonald, the 'cozy hospitality' of Mae West. Backwards ran sentences until reeled the mind." — Wolcott Gibbs, profiling Henry Luce in '''Timese''' in the ''New Yorker'', 1936.

===Anagrams===
* [[mesite#English|mesite]]
* [[Semite#English|Semite]]

[[Category:en:Writing]]