==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[tits up]]
* [[titsup]]

===Etymology===
From “[[tits]]” + “[[up]]”, in reference to a woman lying on her back.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|idiomatic|slang|usually of a woman|usually naked}} Lying down face up.
#* '''1998''', Anna Linzer, ''Ghost Dancing'', Picador, page 39:
#*: Maybe she knows you and Mary will be taking her home, and that by next week she'll be sleeping under the cool green branches of a giant cedar tree instead of '''tits-up''' in some dusty cornfield.
#* '''1999''', Stephen Rhodes, ''The Velocity of Money: A Novel of Wall Street'' (HarperCollins Publishers Inc.), page 253:
#*: Next thing he remembered was blanking out, and waking to find himself '''tits-up''' in the S&P pit, a forest of undulating legs roiling around him.
#* '''2005''', Lucia St. Clair Robson, ''Shadow Patriots'', Tor/Forge, page 215:
#*: The two women were naked except for their wigs and their gartered stockings. They both lay '''tits-up''' on the floor, facing André and Clinton.
# {{context|idiomatic|slang|vulgar}} [[broken|Broken]]; [[failed]]; inoperable.
#* '''1987''', Tom Clancy, ''Patriot Games'', Putnam, page 197:
#*: The bird went '''tits-up''', take another day or so to fix. 
#* '''2000''', Dewey Lambdin, ''King's Captain: An Alan Lewrie Naval Adventure'', St. Martin's Press, page 66:
#*: Yeomanry . . . militia forces. . . do I not make major-general by this time next year, I've either gone '''tits-up'''. . . or wasn't really tryin'! 
#* '''2005''', Bill Fitzhugh, ''Pest Control'', HarperCollins, page 46:
#*: Mary said that seventy percent of new businesses failed within the first six months. Another twenty percent went '''tits-up''' within the year.
# {{context|idiomatic|slang|vulgar}} Dead.