==English==
{{rfd|lang=en}}
===Etymology===
{{rfc|lang=en}}
Reportedly: a quotation from the Lakota leader Crazy Horse, who shouted: "Hóka-héy! Today is a good day to die!"

Although it is commonly claimed (e.g., according to [http://www.native-languages.org/iaq21.htm Native Languages of the Americas website] by "Hollywood" and by army men) that "Hóka-héy" (corrupted: [[Opahey]]) itself means, or at least can be interpreted (loosely) as "Today is a good day to die!", actually "Hóka-héy" means something along the lines of "Let's go" or "Let's roll" ("Come on! Let's do it"). According to [http://www.native-languages.org/iaq21.htm tradition], "It is a good day to die" was only the second part of the quote attributed to Crazy Horse, "Hóka-héy" being only an exhortation (assertive, take-charge word or phrase) forming an introduction to the main sentence. See also: [http://www.manataka.org/page1909.html Manataka American Indian Council's website].

===Phrase===
{{head|en|phrase}}

# An expression of willingness and even eagerness to give one's life for one's cause.
# One should never live a moment of one's life with any regrets, or tasks left undone.
# "Klingon locution, often uttered when the odds see to favor an opponent. It does not, however, represent a defeatist attitude. Quite the contrary, in a society in which warriors are so revered, to die in a battle is a noble aspiration." (Marc Okrand, ''The Klingon Way'', Pocket Books, New York 1996, p. 69)

====Synonyms====
* it is a good day to die

===Later uses===
{{wikipedia}}

Wikipedia'a disambiguation article [[wikipedia:A Good Day to Die|"A Good Day to Die"]] carries a list of verbatim and metaphorical uses of this phrase and similar ones.

[[Category:English sentences]]