{{also|toerag}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|En-au-toe rag.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{m|en|toe|}} + {{m|en|rag}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|British|slang|pejorative}} A [[tramp]].
#* '''1896''', Walter Frith, ''In Search of Quiet: A Country Journal, May–July'' (novel), Harper & Brothers Publishers, [http://books.google.com/books?id=2u8XAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA156&dq=%22toe-rag%22 page 156]:
#*: “{{...}} Look what it's all driven me to!—a beggar, a tramp, a '''toe-rag''' commercial. {{...}}”
#* '''1959''', {{w|Willis Hall}}, ''{{w|The Long and the Short and the Tall (play)|The Long and the Short and the Tall}}'', Heinemann (1994), 978-0-435-23302-0, [http://books.google.com/books?id=2nnekj4SPv0C&pg=PA5&dq=%22toe-rag%22 page 5]:
#*: <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Bamforth:</span> Flipping '''toe-rag'''! He wants carving up. It’s time that nit got sorted out. {{...}}
#* '''2001''', {{w|Eric Clapton}}, liner notes to ''{{w|Reptile (album)|Reptile}}''”, quoted in William Ruhlmann, “''Reptile'' / Mar. 13, 2001 / Reprise”, Vladimir Bogdanov et al., ''All Music Guide to the Blues: The Definitive Guide to the Blues'', Third Edition, Hal Leonard Corporation, {{ISBN|0879307366}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=qYtz7kEHegEC&pg=PA116&dq=%22toe+rag%22 page 116]:
#*: Where I come from, the word ‘reptile’ is a term of endearment, used in much the same way as ‘'''toe rag'''’ or ‘moosh’.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} A [[cloth]] worn wrapped around the foot instead of a [[sock]].
#* '''1864''', “an Ex-Military Officer” (J. F. Mortlock), ''Experiences of a Convict, Transported in 1843 for Twenty-One Years: An Autobiographical Memoir'', part II, Richard Barrett (printer), [http://books.google.com/books?id=luANAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA80&dq=%22toe-rag%22 page 80]:
#*: Stockings being unknown, some luxurious men wrapped round their feet a piece of old shirting, called, in language more expressive than elegant, a “'''toe-rag'''”.
#* '''1891''', {{w|Thomas Alexander Browne|Rolf Boldrewood}}, ''A Sydney-side Saxon'', Macmillan and Co., [http://books.google.com/books?id=0WFLAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA157&dq=%22toe-rag%22 page 157]:
#*: One of his feet had been bleeding, I could see from his ‘'''toe-rag''',’ which stuck out on one side.
#* '''1913''', {{w|D. H. Lawrence}}, ''{{w|Sons and Lovers}}'', Penguin Lawrence Edition, Penguin (1994), {{ISBN|0140188320}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=u_6NXPw4X4cC&pg=PA213&dq=%22toe-rag%22 page 213]:
#*: “I’ll bet ’er wor a '''toe-rag''',” said Morel, following up his joke. ¶ “Don’t you be so cheeky about a queen,” said Annie.

===Etymology 2===
* Said to be from Tuareg, a nomadic North African tribesman, but may share same etymology as the UK definition: from the cloths worn around the foot.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
# {{lb|en|Ireland|slang|pejorative}} An [[obnoxious]] or insignificant person.
In the 17th century, sailors who needed the toilet, done their business between the slats at the front of the ship, into the sea. A long rope would drag into the sea, being wet. The sailor would lift it out of the water, wipe his backside with the wet rope and return it into the water. Hence the reason why calling someone a toe rag is a put down, being dirty, bad

===Etymology 3===
Unknown

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
# {{lb|en|British|Somerset}} Dried salt cod-fish.

Sailors in the Age of Sail used tow-rags. What is a tow-rag? As can be seen in the video below, close to the ship’s head — the toilets in the bow or “head” of the ship — there was a long rope ending in a short rag that hung over the side into the water. After using the head, the sailor could then clean his backside with the wet rag then drop the rope back over the side. The rag would then be cleaned either by being literally towed by the ship under sail or to be washed by the action of wave and current if at anchor.

The word “tow” may refer to the process of the rage being towed underway but is more likely to be the type of hemp woven rag used at the end of the rope, referred to, even today, as tow.  

In modern British slang, a tow-rag, also spelled toerag, is a low-life, scum, or loser. Recently an elderly constituent’s comments on Prime Minister Boris Johnson went viral when she referred to him as a “filthy piece of toerag.” Toerag is not slang used widely on this side of the Atlantic, although it translates nicely into American English as the equally impolite “ass-wipe.”

===References===
* Frederick Thomas Elworthy, ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=WVYJAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA766&dq=%22toe+rag%22+date:1500-1900&as_brr=3&ei=SmpVR6TSC4PupwKc5IzRAg The West Somerset Word-book: A Glossary of Dialectal and Archaic Words and Phrase]'', English Dialect Society, 1886.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aegort|Argote|OR gate|Tagore|ergato-|garote|gear to|orgeat}}