==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|head=[[tomato]] [[sauce]]}}

# {{context|cooking|lang=en}} A thick [[sauce]] made from [[tomato]]es for [[pasta]] etc.
#* '''2002''', Steve Brill, ''The Wild Vegetarian Cookbook'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=UPaDYTVo44IC&pg=PA186&lpg=PA186&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=oWJbecd1eP&sig=9Q1gQPOZJN6iXG9oU0epQsb_HzY&hl=en&sa=X&ei=fVGGUNrOGu_vmAXZ04GADg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 186],
#*: Russian '''Tomato Sauce''' will keep, tightly covered, in the refrigerator for 10 days.
#* '''2007''', Wayne Gisslen, ''Professional Cooking'', 6th Edition, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=hxcH5o9QeywC&pg=PA176&lpg=PA176&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=0NK0JWNwsr&sig=8eg2eRqz_7733zAl1mUDnK7Px80&hl=en&sa=X&ei=fVGGUNrOGu_vmAXZ04GADg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 176],
#*: Classical '''tomato sauce''', as explained by Escoffier, is made with a roux, but this is rarely done in modern kitchens.
#* '''2007''', Mark Bittman, ''How to Cook Everything Vegetarian: Simple Meatless Recipes for Great Food'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=gNAU05uZJ-MC&pg=PA445&lpg=PA445&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=G9s5KQGdez&sig=48cmmaW6M1de_0ZKbD8-VQS4_bs&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PzeGUIj4M-_2mAWfioCQBA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 445],
#*: But in the summer, fresh '''tomato sauce''' should be a staple; peeling the tomatoes—which is optional—is undeniably a bit of work (seeding takes only a second), but the flavor of the sauce is much better than canned, thee texture is rich and silky, and the color much prettier.
# {{context|UK|Australia|New Zealand|lang=en}} Bottled tomato [[ketchup]], used as a [[condiment]].
#* '''1979''' June, Peter C. Harper, ''Robert Alexander Falla K.B.E., C.M.G., M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S.N.Z.: An Appreciation'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=w50wO_SWvMEC&pg=PA356&lpg=PA356&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+bottle+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=yBiDrnJ8Ld&sig=0miLej4zIm19xrtZ7ntKwGGhneg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=u26GUNTRKciOmQXox4FA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20bottle%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 356],
#*: A plastic '''tomato sauce''' bottle, which could have been cut in half to make a flower pot, was quickly surveyed along with other trophies, and received the death sentence. “In the bin, Bob.”
#* '''1980''' January-May, Laurence Le Guay, ''Cruising World'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=uMC_kUIYSg8C&pg=RA4-PA98&lpg=RA4-PA98&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=8uFmo4JW2Q&sig=BVvYFqj7xwcJmJykuUU5IowlnPM&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lFeGULO8PIOkigeK8YGIBg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 98],
#*: I quickly learned that there is a hell of a difference between '''tomato sauce''' and ketchup and that there is an even greater difference when it comes to mayonnaise: ''real'' American or the ''pseudo'' Australian — and I had always believed this to be a French concoction.
#* '''2003''' March, ''Microbiology Australia'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=05nZwrqQKPQC&pg=PA46&lpg=PA46&dq=%22tomato+sauce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=BYMo-QqbyM&sig=1F8zFzovLDHPYHHJLXiXQ7kaKnQ&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lFeGULO8PIOkigeK8YGIBg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22tomato%20sauce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 46],
#*: The event was a BBQ in the peaceful and picturesque System Garden at the University of Melbourne, Parkville campus. Food was plentifil and included a variety of sausages and veggie burgers, onions, bread and '''tomato sauce''' in addition to soft drinks.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|pasta sauce}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|番茄醬|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|番茄酱|tr=fānqiéjiàng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|番茄沙司|tr=fānqié shāsī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|rajská omáčka|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sauce tomate|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Tomatensauce|f}}, {{t+|de|Tomatensoße|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|tómatsósa|f}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|sauce de tomate}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|トマトソース|tr=tomato sōsu|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|토마토 소스|sc=Kore}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|tomātu mērce|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|до́матен сос|m}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|soolagh traase|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|molho de tomate|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|тома́тный со́ус|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|salsa de tomate|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|nước xốt cà chua}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|ketchup}}

===See also===
* [[catsup]]
* [[ketchup]]
* [[red sauce]]
* [[red gravy]]

[[Category:en:Foods]]

[[es:tomato sauce]]
[[sv:tomato sauce]]