==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[tōl]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/tuːl/}}
*{{audio|en-us-tool.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːl|-uːl]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
{{wikipedia}}

# A mechanical [[device]] intended to make a task easier.
#:''Hand me that '''tool''', would you?''
# [[Equipment]] used in a profession, e.g., ''tools of the trade''.
#:''These are the '''tools of the trade'''.'' <!--not used outside this phrase!-->
# {{computing}} A [[software]] to develop softwares or hardwares.
#:''The software engineer had been developed lots of EDA tools.''
# {{slang}} A complete [[idiot]](Raber).
#:''He was a '''tool''', no more than a pawn to her.''
# {{slang}} [[penis|Penis]].
# {{slang}} A [[person]] who uncritically supports and assists established authority. See [[sellout]].
# {{slang}} By association, any contemptible, inadequate, or unpleasant person.
# {{slang}} A person who is used in relationships for reasons other than love.

====Hyponyms====
*[[toolbar]]
*[[toolbox]]
*[[toolkit]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mechanical device intended to make a task easier}}
* Bulgarian: [[инструмент]] (instrumént) {{m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nástroj|m}}
* Danish: [[instrument]] {{n}}, [[redskab]] {{n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gereedschap|n}}, {{t+|nl|werktuig|n}}, {{t+|nl|instrument|n}}, {{t-|nl|hulpmiddel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|työkalu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|outil|m}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t|gl|ferramenta|xs=Galician}} {{f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Werkzeug|n}}, {{t+|de|Gerät|n}}, {{t+|de|Instrument|n}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[instrumento]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|arnese|m}}, {{t+|it|strumento|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|道具|tr=dōgu}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|verktøy|n}}
* Polish: [[narzędzie]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: [[instrumento]] {{m}}, [[ferramenta]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|sculă|f}}
* Russian: [[инструмент]] (instrum'ént) {{m}}, [[орудие труда]] (orúdije trudá) {{n}}
* Serbian: {{t+|sr|алат|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|alat|m}}
* Slovene: [[orodje]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|herramienta|f}}
* Swahili: [[vifaa]] {{p}} ''(noun 7,8)''
* Swedish: [[verktyg]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|equipment used in a profession}}
* Bulgarian: [[средство]] (srédstvo) {{n}}
* Danish: [[værktøj]] {{n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gereedschap|n}}, {{t+|nl|instrument|n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|outil|m}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t|gl|ferramenta|xs=Galician}} {{f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Instrument|n}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[instrumento]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|attrezzo|m}}, {{t+|it|strumento|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|道具|tr=dōgu}}, {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|工具|tr=kōgu}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|verktøy|n}}, {{t-|no|redskap|n}}
* Polish: [[narzędzie]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: [[instrumento]] {{m}}, [[ferramenta]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[инструмент]] (instrum'ént) {{m}}, [[средство]] (sr'édstvo) {{n}}
* Serbian: [[средство]] {{n}}, [[sredstvo]] {{n}}, [[прибор]] {{m}}, [[pribor]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|herramienta}} {{f}}, {{t+|es|utensilio}} {{m}}
* Swahili: [[vifaa]] {{p}} ''(noun 7,8)''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a software for developers}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|ツール|tr=tsūru}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|complete idiot}}
* Danish: [[kreatur]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|idiootti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Depp}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[instrumento]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|でくの坊|tr=deku-no-bō}}
* Polish: [[idiota]] {{m}}, [[idiotka]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|idiota|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|penis}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|pik|n}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|lul|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kalu}}
* German: [[Teil]] {{m}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|arnese|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kuk|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kutas|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|sculă|f}}
* Russian: [[прибор]] (pribór) {{m}}, [[аппарат]] (apparát) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person who uncritically supports and assists established authority}}
* Danish: [[kreatur]] {{n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mouton|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A person who is used in relationships}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|sc=Jpan|玩具|tr=gangu}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|tøffel|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[اداة]]}} {{IPAchar|(’adá:)}} {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[الة|آلَة]]}} {{IPAchar|(’á:la)}} {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[alat#Bosnian|alat]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[eina]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[工具]] (gōngjù)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[szerszám]], [[eszköz]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[utensile]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[연장]] (yeonjang)
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[unealtă]] {{f}}, [[ustensilă]] {{f}}, [[instrument]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*:Cyrillic: [[алат#Serbian|алат]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*:Roman: [[alat#Serbian|alat]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*{{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[kifaa]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[పరికరం]] (parikaram)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To work on or shape with tools, e.g., ''hand-tooled leather''.
# {{transitive}} To equip with tools.
# {{transitive}} To work very hard.
# {{transitive}} {{context|volleyball}} To intentionally [[attack]] the ball such that it deflects off a [[blocker]] out of bounds.

====Synonyms====
;volleyball
* [[use]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to work on or shape with tools}}
* Bulgarian: [[изработвам]] (izrabotvam)
* [[Catalan]]: donar forma
* Danish: [[bearbejde]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|bearbeide}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bewerken}}
* Finnish: [[työstää]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t-|fr|façonner}}
* German: {{t+|de|bearbeiten}}
* [[Interlingua]]: formar (con [[utensile]]s)
* Polish: [[obrabiać]]
* Portuguese: [[talhar]], [[ciselar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to equip with tools}}
* Bulgarian: [[оборудвам]] (oborudvam)
* [[Catalan]]: [[equipar]]
* Danish: [[udstyre]] med [[maskine]]r
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|equipar|xs=Galician}} {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: [[uitrusten]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|varustaa}}
* Polish: [[wyposażać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|equipar}}
* Russian: [[экипировать]] (ekipírovát’), [[оборудовать]] (oborúdovat’), [[оснащать]]/[[оснастить]] (osnaš'át'/osnastít')
* Norwegian: [[utstyre]] [[utruste]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to work very hard}}
* Polish: [[harować]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|volleyball}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[cisellar]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[taliar]], [[cisellar]], [[equipar]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[cizela]], [[da formă]],
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[loot]]
----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
From German [[Stuhl]]

===Noun===
'''tool'''

# [[chair]]

[[Category:Estonian nouns]]

[[ang:tool]]
[[ast:tool]]
[[de:tool]]
[[et:tool]]
[[fa:tool]]
[[fr:tool]]
[[io:tool]]
[[it:tool]]
[[ku:tool]]
[[hu:tool]]
[[pl:tool]]
[[pt:tool]]
[[ru:tool]]
[[simple:tool]]
[[sr:tool]]
[[fi:tool]]
[[sv:tool]]
[[ta:tool]]
[[te:tool]]
[[vi:tool]]