==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Touch (disambiguation)|Touch}}
{{rank|running|garden|domain|888|touch|higher|military|passage}}

===Etymology===
{{rfscript|Gothic}}
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|touchen|touchen, tochen||lang=enm}} from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|tochier|tochier||lang=fro}} (modern {{fr}} {{term|toucher|toucher||lang=fr}}, cf {{fr}} doublet {{term|toquer|toquer||lang=fr}} "to offend, bother, harass"), from {{etyl|VL.}} unattested form *{{term||toccare||lang=la}} "to knock, strike, offend", of {{etyl|gem}} origin, from {{proto|Germanic|tukkanan, tukkianan|to jerk, knock, strike, offend|lang=}}, influenced by proximity to similar forms from {{proto|Germanic|tekanan, tēkanan|to touch|lang=}}. Akin to {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|zochhon|zochhōn||lang=goh}} "to grasp, seize", {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|zuchon|zuchôn||lang=goh}} "to jerk, tug", {{etyl|gml|-}} {{term|tucken|tucken||lang=gmh}} "to tug", {{etyl|odt|-}} {{term|tocken|tocken, tucken||lang=odt}} "to touch, entice", {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|tucian|tucian, tūcian||lang=ang}} "to mistreat, disturb, torment", {{etyl|got|-}} {{term|tekan|tekan||lang=}} "to touch", {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|taka|taka||lang=non}} "to touch, grasp", {{ang}} {{term|tacan|tacan||lang=ang}} "to touch, take". More at [[tuck]], [[take]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|tûch}}, {{IPA|/tʌʧ/}}, {{SAMPA|/tVtS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-touch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌtʃ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|touch|es}}

# Primarily physical senses.
## {{transitive}} To make physical [[contact]] with; to bring the hand, finger or other part of the body into contact with. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''I '''touched''' her face softly.''
## {{transitive}} To come into (involuntary) contact with; to [[meet]] or [[intersect]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''Sitting on the bench, the hem of her skirt '''touched''' the ground.''
## {{intransitive}} To come into physical contact, or to be in physical contact. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''They stood next to each other, their shoulders '''touching'''.''
## {{intransitive}} To make physical contact with a thing. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''Please can I have a look, if I promise not to '''touch'''?''
## {{transitive}} To physically disturb; to interfere with, molest, or attempt to harm through contact. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''If you '''touch''' her, I'll kill you.''
## {{transitive}} To physically affect in specific ways implied by context. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
##: ''Frankly, this wood's so strong that sandpaper won't '''touch''' it.''
## {{transitive}} To [[consume]], or otherwise use. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
##: ''Are you all right?  You've hardly '''touched''' your lunch.''
## {{intransitive}} Of a ship or its passengers: to [[land]], to make a short stop (at). {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
##* '''1851''', Herman Melville, ''Moby-Dick'':
##*: Now a certain grand merchant ship once '''touched''' at Rokovoko, and its commander--from all accounts, a very stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of ten.
## {{transitive|or|reflexive}} To sexually excite with the fingers; to [[finger]] or [[masturbate]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
##: ''Her parents had caught her '''touching''' herself when she was fifteen.''
# Primarily non-physical senses.
## {{transitive}} To [[imbue]] or [[endow]] with a specific quality. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''My grandfather, as many people know, was '''touched''' with greatness.''
## {{transitive|archaic}} To deal with in speech or writing; to [[mention]] briefly, to [[allude]] to. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##* '''1621''', Robert Burton, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', I.2.4.vii:
##*: Next to sorrow still I may annex such accidents as procure fear; for besides those terrors which I have before '''touched''', [...] there is a superstitious fear [...] which much trouble many of us.
## {{transitive|obsolete}} To [[concern]], to have a bearing on. {{defdate|14th-19th c.}}
##: ''Stay out of this, it doesn't '''touch''' you in any way.''
## {{transitive}} To affect emotionally; to bring about tender or painful feelings in. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''Stefan was '''touched''' by the song's message of hope.''
## {{context|transitive|dated}} To [[affect]] in a negative way, especially only slightly. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
##: ''He had been drinking over lunch, and was clearly '''touched'''.''
## {{transitive|Scottish history}} To give royal assent to by touching it with the sceptre. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
##: ''The bill was finally '''touched''' after many hours of deliberation.''
## {{transitive}} To [[steal]], or obtain money; to borrow money from. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
##: ''I was running short, so I '''touched''' old Bertie for a fiver.''
## {{transitive}} To disturb the mental functions of; to make somewhat insane. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
##: ''You must be '''touched''' if you think I'm taking your advice.''
## {{transitive}} To be on the [[level]] of; to approach in excellence or quality. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
##* '''1928''', [[w:Dorothy L. Sayers|Dorothy L. Sayers]], "The Abominable History of the Man with Copper Fingers", in [[w:Lord Peter Views the Body|''Lord Peter Views the Body'']],
##*: There was his mistress, Maria Morano. I don't think I've ever seen anything to '''touch''' her, and when you work for the screen [as I do] you're apt to have a pretty exacting standard of female beauty.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the verb "touch"}}
* [[touch a nerve]]
* [[touch base]]
* [[touch bottom]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[touch wood]]
* [[touch down]]
* [[touch off]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[touch on]]
* [[touch up]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|make physical contact with}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لمس|tr=lámasa}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|tocar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|接觸|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|接触|tr=jiēchù|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|觸摸|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|触摸|tr=chùmō|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|摸|tr=mō|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|觸|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|触|tr=chù|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dirati|alt=dírati}}, {{t-|hr|taknuti|alt=tàknuti}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|røre}}, {{t-|da|berøre}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanraken}}, {{t+|nl|beroeren}}, {{t+|nl|raken}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tuŝi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koskea}}, {{t+|fi|koskettaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|toucher}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|tocar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|berühren}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|נגע|tr=nagá}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|छूना|tr=chūnā|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|érint}}, {{t+|hu|megérint}}, {{t|hu|hozzányúl}}
* [[Ido]]: [[tushar]]
* Indonesian: [[sentuh]], [[raba]], [[singgung]]
* Irish: {{t|ga|bain do|xs=Irish}}, {{t|ga|bain le|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|toccare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|触る|tr=さわる, sawaru}},  {{t-|ja|触れる|tr=ふれる, fureru}},  {{t-|ja|接触する|tr=せっしょくする, sesshoku-surú}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|닿다|tr=dahda|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[ده‌ست لێدان]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|tango}}, {{t-|la|taxo}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|berøre}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|پرماسیدن|xs=Persian}},  {{t+|fa|زدن|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: [[dotykać]] {{impf}}, [[dotknąć]] {{pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|atinge}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t-|rm|tutgar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|трогать|tr=trógat'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|касаться|tr=kasát'sja}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|дотрагиваться|tr=dotrágivat'sja}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|тронуть|tr=trónut'}} {{pf}},  {{t|ru|коснуться|tr=kosnút'sja}} {{pf}},  {{t|ru|дотронуться|tr=dotrónut'sja}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tocar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|röra}}, {{t+|sv|beröra}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[అంటుకొను]] (aMTukonu), [[తాకు]] (taaku), [[ముట్టుకొను]] (muTTukonu)
* Thai: {{t|th|แตะ|tr=dtàe}}
* Ukrainian: [[доторкатися]] (dotorkátysja), [[доторкнутися]] (dotorknútysja)
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|چھونا|tr=chūnā|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|đạt tới|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t+|vi|đến|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t|vi|sờ|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t|vi|chạm|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|affect emotionally}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dirati|alt=dírati}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|røre}}, {{t-|da|bevæge}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|raken}}, {{t+|nl|roeren}}, {{t-|nl|aangedaan zijn}},  {{t|nl|ontroeren}}
* Esperanto: [[kortuŝi]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koskettaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|toucher}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ריגש|tr=rigésh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|meghat}},  {{t+|hu|megindít}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|commuovere}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|닿다|tr=dahda|sc=Hang}}, [[두드리다]] (''dudeurida'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|tangere}}, {{t-|la|taxare}}, {{t-|la|toccare}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|berøre}}, {{t+|no|røre}}
* Polish: [[wzruszać]] {{impf}}, [[wzruszyć]] {{pf}}''
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|emoţiona}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|волновать|tr=volnovát’}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|взволновать|tr=vzvolnovát’}} {{pf}}, {{t+|ru|растрогать|tr=rastrógat’}} {{pf}}, {{t|ru|трогать|tr=trógat'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|тронуть|tr=trónut'}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tocar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|röra}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[తాకు]] (taaku), [[స్పర్శించు]] (sparSiMchu)
* Ukrainian: [[зворушуватися]] (zvorúšuvatysja)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# An act of touching, especially with the [[hand]] or [[finger]].
#: ''Suddenly, in the crowd, I felt a '''touch''' at my shoulder.''
# The faculty or sense of perception by physical contact.
#: ''With the lights out, she had to rely on '''touch''' to find her desk.''
# The style or technique with which one plays a musical instrument.
#: ''He performed one of Ravel's piano concertos with a wonderfully light and playful '''touch'''.''
# A distinguishing feature or characteristic.
#: ''Clever '''touches''' like this are what make her such a brilliant writer.''
# A little bit; a small amount.
#: ''Move it left just a '''touch''' and it will be perfect.''
# The part of a sports field beyond the [[touchlines]] or goal-lines.
#: ''He got the ball, and kicked it straight out into '''touch'''.''
# A relationship of close communication or understanding.
#: ''He promised to keep in '''touch''' while he was away.''

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun "touch"}}
* [[in touch]]
* [[light touch]]
* [[lose one's touch]]
* [[lose touch]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[out of touch]]
* [[soft touch]]
* [[touch football]]
* [[touch-kick]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[touchless]]
* [[touch oneself]]
* [[touch-paper]]
* [[touch-type]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of touching}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dotyk|m}}, {{t-|cs|dotek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kosketus}}
* German: {{t+|de|berühren}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επαφή|f|tr=epafí}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|érintés}},  {{t|hu|tapintás}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|接触|tr=sesshoku}}, {{t|ja|タッチ|tr=tacchi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|berøring|m+f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dotyk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}, {{t+|pt|toque|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прикосновение|n|tr=prikosnov'énije}}, {{t+|ru|касание|n|tr=kasánije}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|toque}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|dara|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[beröring]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sense of perception}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|hmat|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tuntoaisti}}, {{t-|fi|tunto}}
* German: {{t+|de|Berührung|f}}
* Greek: [[αφή]] (afí) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|tapintás}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|触覚|tr=shokkaku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|følelse|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dotyk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|toque|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|осязание|n|tr=os'azánije}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|darana|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[känsel]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|style}}
* Finnish: [[kosketus]], [[tyyli]], [[tatsi]] (''colloquial'')
* Japanese: {{t|ja|タッチ|tr=tacchi}}
* Polish: [[podejście]] {{n}}, [[styl]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|toque|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[стиль]] (stil’) {{m}}, [[манера]] (man'éra) {{f}}, [[штрих]] (štriχ) {{m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|darana|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|känsla|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distinguishing feature}}
* Finnish: [[ominaispiirre]], [[detalji]]
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|jellegzetesség}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|感触|tr=kanshoku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|toque|m}}
* Russian: [[штрих]] (štriχ) {{m}}
* Swedish: [[detalj]] {{c}}, [[känsla för detaljer]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small amount}}
* Finnish: [[hiukan]], [[aavistuksen verran]]
* German: {{t+|de|Spur|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kevés}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[odrobina]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[aning]] {{c}}, [[smula]] {{c}}, [[liten bit]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of a sportsfield}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|partvonal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|darana|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|close communication}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yhteys}}, {{t-|fi|kontakti}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kontakt|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kontakt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|contato|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|общение|n|tr=obš'énije}}, {{t+|ru|контакт|m|tr=kontákt}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|darana|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kontakt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[触]] (chù)
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[aanraking]] {{f}} (1), [[contact]] {{n}} (1,2)
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[tuŝo]] (1), [[kontakto]] (2)
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[toucher]] {{m}} (1), [[contact]] {{m}} (2)
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Berührung]] {{f}} (1)
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sentuh|sentuhan]], [[raba|rabaan]], [[singgung|persinggungan]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[tatto]] {{m}} (1,3), [[contatto]] {{m}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[toque]] {{m}} (1), [[tacto]] {{m}} (1), [[contacto]] {{m}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[дотик]] (dótyk) {{m}} (1), [[доторк]] (dótork) {{m}} (1), [[контакт]] (kontákt) (2), [[чуття дотику]] (čuttja dótyku) (3)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|chotu}}
* [[couth#English|couth]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:touch]]
[[el:touch]]
[[es:touch]]
[[fa:touch]]
[[fr:touch]]
[[ko:touch]]
[[io:touch]]
[[id:touch]]
[[it:touch]]
[[kn:touch]]
[[kk:touch]]
[[sw:touch]]
[[ku:touch]]
[[lo:touch]]
[[hu:touch]]
[[ml:touch]]
[[nl:touch]]
[[ja:touch]]
[[oc:touch]]
[[pl:touch]]
[[ro:touch]]
[[ru:touch]]
[[simple:touch]]
[[fi:touch]]
[[sv:touch]]
[[ta:touch]]
[[te:touch]]
[[th:touch]]
[[tr:touch]]
[[uk:touch]]
[[vi:touch]]
[[zh:touch]]