==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tɹækt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-tract.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|tracked|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ækt|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{m|en|tractate}}, from {{der|en|la|tractatus}}, or borrowed from {{bor|en|la|tractus}}, the perfect passive participle of {{m|la|trahō}}. {{doublet|trait|lang=en}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[area]] or [[expanse]].
#: ''an unexplored '''tract''' of sea''
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|John Milton}}
#*: the deep '''tract''' of hell
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|Addison}}
#*: a very high mountain joined to the mainland by a narrow '''tract''' of earth
# A series of connected body organs, as in the ''[[digestive tract]]''.
# A small [[booklet]] such as a [[pamphlet]], often for promotional or informational uses.
# A brief [[treatise]] or [[discourse]] on a subject.
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|Jonathan Swift}}
#*: The church clergy at that writ the best collection of '''tracts''' against popery that ever appeared.
# A commentator's view or [[perspective]] on a subject.
# Continued or [[protracted]] [[duration]], [[length]], [[extent]]
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|John Milton}}
#*: improved by '''tract''' of time
#* '''1843''', {{w|Thomas Carlyle}}, ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', book 2, ch. XIV, ''[[:w:Henry d'Essex|Henry of Essex]]''
#*: Nay, in another case of litigation, the unjust Standard bearer, for his own profit, asserting that the cause belonged not to St. Edmund’s Court, but to ''his'' in [[:w:Leyland (hundred)|Lailand Hundred]], involved us in travellings and innumerable expenses, vexing the servants of St. Edmund for a long '''tract''' of time {{...}}
# Part of the [[proper]] of the [[liturgical]] [[celebration]] of the [[Eucharist]] for many [[Christian]] [[denomination]]s, used instead of the [[alleluia]] during [[Lenten]] or pre-Lenten seasons, in a Requiem Mass, and on a few other [[penitential]] occasions.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Continuity or extension of anything.
#: ''the '''tract''' of speech''
#: {{rfquotek|Older}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Traits; features; lineaments.
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|Francis Bacon}}
#*: The discovery of a man's self by the '''tracts''' of his countenance is a great weakness.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} The footprint of a wild animal.
#: {{rfquotek|Dryden}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Track; trace.
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} Sir {{w|Thomas Browne}}
#*: Efface all '''tract''' of its traduction.
#* {{rfdate||and other bibliographic particulars, eg, title of work, page, url, full name of author}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}
#*: But flies an eagle flight, bold, and forth on, / Leaving no '''tract''' behind.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Treatment; exposition.
#* {{rfdate|}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Henry VIII, Act I, Scene I''.
#*:The '''tract''' of every thing Would, by a good discourser, lose some life Which action's self was tongue to.

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|tractate}} ''noun''
* {{l|en|trait}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|an area}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|extensió|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gebied|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alue}}, {{t+|fi|seutu}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|extensión|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gebiet|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|extensão|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уча́сток|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|extensión|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|trakt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a series of connected body organs}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|trakt}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|tracte|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ústrojí|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kanaal|n}}, {{t+|nl|stelsel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|elimet}}, {{t+|fi|kanava}}, {{t+|fi|juoste}}
* French: {{t+|fr|appareil|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Trakt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|traktus}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|apparato}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|провод|m|tr=próvod|sc=Cyrl}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دستگاه|tr=dastgâh|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aparelho}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тракт|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tracto|m}}, {{t+|es|aparato}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a small booklet}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|fullet|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|mātārere}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|panfleto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|брошю́ра|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|folleto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a brief treatise}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|tractat|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|traktaatti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Traktat|n}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|расправа|f|tr=rásprava|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tratado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тракта́т|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tratado|m}},
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|traktat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Catalan: {{t-check|ca|opuscle|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-check|ga|réimse|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From ''[[tractus]]'', the participle stem of {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|trahere}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[pursue]], [[follow]]; to [[track]].
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}}'', II.i:
#*: Where may that treachour then (said he) be found, / Or by what meanes may I his footing '''tract'''?
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To draw out; to [[protract]].
#: {{rfquotek|Ben Jonson}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=acrtt|T-cart}}

[[Category:English syncopic forms]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|fr|en|tract}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA|tracte}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[flyer]], [[circular]], [[pamphlet]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|tracter}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}