{{also|tradé}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=trade (disambiguation)|trade}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|trade||lang=enm|path, course of conduct}}, cognate with {{etyl|ang}} {{term|tredan||lang=ang|tread}}; See [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=trade&searchmode=none Online Etymology Dictionary]

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|En-uk-trade.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{IPA|/tɹeɪd/}}, {{SAMPA|/'treId/}}
* {{audio|en-us-trade.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪd}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# relating to or used in or intended for trade or commerce;
#: ''a trade fair; trade journals; trade goods.''

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable|UK}} The commercial buying and selling of goods and services.
# {{uncountable}} International buying and selling of goods and services.
# {{countable}} Those who [[perform]] a particular kind of [[skilled]] work.
#: ''The skilled '''trades''' were the first to organize modern labor unions.''
# {{countable}} Those engaged in an industry or group of related industries.
#: ''It is not a retail showroom. It is only for the '''trade'''.''
# {{countable}} The skilled practice of a practical [[occupation]].
#: ''He learned his '''trade''' as an [[apprentice]].''
# {{countable}} A particular instance of [[buy]]ing or [[sell]]ing.
#: ''I did no '''trades''' with them once the rumors started.''
# {{countable}} An instance of [[barter]]ing items in [[exchange]] for one another.
#* '''1989''', [[w:Bruce Pandolfini|Bruce Pandolfini]], ''Chess Openings: Traps and Zaps'', ISBN 0671656902, "Glossary" section, page 225&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=pocVITTr8tMC&pg=PA225&dq=trade]:
#*: EXCHANGE — A '''trade''' or swap of no material profit to either side.
#* '''2009''', Elliott Kalb and Mark Weinstein, ''The 30 Greatest Sports Conspiracy Theories of All Time'', ISBN 9781602396784, page 60&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=nQd8MHuaXysC&pg=PA60&dq=trade]:
#*: When Golden State matched the Knicks' offer sheet, the Warriors and Knicks worked out a '''trade''' that sent King to New York for Richardson.
# {{uncountable|UK}} The [[business]] given to a [[commercial]] [[establishment]] by its customers.
#: ''Even before noon there was considerable '''trade'''.''
# {{context|only as plural}} [[steady|Steady]] [[wind]]s blowing from east to west above and below the [[equator]].
#: ''They rode the '''trades''' going west.''
# {{context|only as plural}} A publication intended for participants in an industry or related group of industries.
#: ''Rumors about layoffs are all over the '''trades'''.''
# {{uncountable|LGBT|slang}} A brief sexual encounter.
#: ''Josh picked up some '''trade''' last night.''

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''trade (noun)''}}
* [[anti trade]]/[[anti-trade]]
* [[balance of trade]]
* [[basket trade]]
* [[block trade]]
* [[bullet trade]]
* [[carbon trade]]
* [[carriage trade]]
* [[carry trade]]
* [[carousel trade]]
* [[cash and carry trade]]
* [[coasting trade]]
* [[countertrade]]
* [[cross-trade]]
* [[day trade]]
* [[fair trade]]
* [[free trade]]
* [[horse trade]]
* [[invisible trade]]
* [[jack of all trades]]
* [[off-trade]]
* [[on-trade]]
* [[out trade]]
* [[paper trade]]
* [[rag trade]]
* [[restraint of trade]]
* [[rough trade]]
* [[reverse of trade]]
* [[slave trade]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[spot trade]]
* [[stock-in-trade]]
* [[terms of trade]]
* [[trade barrier]]
* [[trade card]]
* [[trade deficit]]
* [[trade dispute]]
* [[trade fair]]
* [[trade magazine]]
* [[trade mark]]/[[trademark]]
* [[trade name]]
* [[trade newspaper]]
* [[trade-off]]
* [[trade route]]
* [[trade secret]]
* [[trade show]]
* [[trade standard]]
* [[trade surplus]]
* [[trade term]]
* [[trade union]]
* [[trade war]]
* [[trade wind]]
* [[trader]]
* [[tradesman]]
* [[tradesperson]]
* [[uptick trade]]
* [[visible trade]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|the commercial exchange of goods and services}} [[commerce]]
* {{sense|the collective people who perform a particular kind of skilled work}} [[business]]
* {{sense|the skilled practice of a practical occupation}} [[craft]]
* {{sense|An instance of buying and selling}} [[deal]], [[barter]]
* {{sense|the business given to a commercial establishment by its customers}} [[patronage]]
<!--* {{sense|steady winds blowing from east to west above and below the equator}} [[trade wind]]-->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exchange}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|ruil|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تجارة|f|tr=tijaara|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|առևտուր|tr=aṙevtur}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|trgovina|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|貿易|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|贸易|tr=màoyì|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|交易|tr=jiāoyì|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|trgovina|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|obchod|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|handel}}, {{t-|da|byttehandel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handel|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kauppa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|commerce|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handel|m}}, {{t|de|Kommerz|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סחר|m|tr=sakhar|sc=Hebr}}, {{t|he|מסחר|m|tr=miskhar|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|व्यापार|m|tr=vyāpār|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|तिजारत|f|tr=tijārat|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kereskedelem}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|commercio|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|貿易|tr=ぼうえき, bōeki|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|交易|tr=こうえき, kōeki|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|무역|tr=muyeok|sc=Kore}} ({{t|ko|貿易|sc=Kore}})
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|трговија|f|tr=trgóvija}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|handel|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|تجارت|tr=tejârat|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|handel|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|comércio|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|торговля|f|tr=torgóvlja}}, {{t|ru|коммерция|f|tr=kommércija|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|трговина|f}}, {{t|sh|обход|m}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|trgovina|f}}, {{t|sh|obhod|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comercio|m}}, {{t-|es|gremio|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|handel|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[వర్తకము]] (vartakamu), [[వాణిజ్యము]] (vaaNijyamu)
* Thai: {{t|th|พาณิชย์|tr=paa-nít|sc=Thai}}, {{t|th|ธุรกิจ|tr=tú-rá-gìt|sc=Thai}}, {{t|th|การค้า|tr=gaan-káa|sc=Thai}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|تجارت|f|tr=tijārat|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|buôn bán|alt=sự buôn bán}}, {{t|vi|thương mại}}, {{t|vi|thương nghiệp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|collective group of people}}
* Dutch: [[arbeidsmarkt]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Serbian: [[trgovci]] {{m|p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|skilled practice}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[ambag]]
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|արհեստ|tr=arhest}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|zanat|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gilde|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handwerk|n}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|занает|m|tr=zánaet}}, {{t-|mk|струка|f|tr=strúka}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|håndverk|n}}, {{t-|no|fag|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|profesja|f}}, {{t+|pl|zawód|m}}, {{t+|pl|fach|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|meserie}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ремесло|n|tr=r'emesló}}, {{t+|ru|профессия|f|tr=prof'éssija}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[занат]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[zanat]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|instance of buying or selling}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|handel|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|貿易|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|贸易|tr=màoyì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|obchod|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|handel|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handel|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|商売|tr=shōbai}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|тргување|n|tr=trgúvanje}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|handel|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|transakcja|f}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|razmena|f}}, {{t-|sr|izmena|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|business}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تجارة|f|tr=tijaara}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|貿易|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|贸易|tr=màoyì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|商業|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|商业|tr=shāngyè|sc=Hani}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|貿易|tr=ぼうえき, bōeki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|무역|tr=muyeok|sc=Hang}} ({{t+|ko|貿易|sc=Hani}})
* [[Manx]]: {{t|gv|cochionneeaght|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|торговля|f|tr=torgóvlja}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|trgovina|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|thương mại}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--{{trans-top|winds}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|貿易風|tr=bōekifū}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пассат|m|tr=passát}}
{{trans-bottom}}-->

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[niaga|perniagaan]], [[dagang|perdagangan]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[comerț]], [[negoț]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|trad|ing}}

# To engage in trade
#: ''This company '''trades''' in precious metal.''
# To be traded at a certain price or under certain conditions.
#: ''stock trade''
# To give (something) in [[exchange]] for.
#: ''Will you '''trade''' your precious watch for my earring?''
# To do business; offer for sale as for one's [[livelihood]].

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the verb "trade"}}
* [[insider trading]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[trade in]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[tradable]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|engage in the trade of}} [[deal]]
* {{sense|be traded at a certain price or under certain conditions}}
* {{sense|give something in exchange for}} [[exchange]], [[swap]], [[switch]]
* {{sense|do business}} [[do business]], [[make a deal]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exchange}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|interŝanĝi|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t|fr|échanger}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comerciar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[buy]]
* [[sell]]

===Anagrams===
* [[adret#English|adret]], [[dater#English|dater]], [[derat#English|derat]], [[drate#English|drate]], [[rated#English|rated]], [[tared#English|tared]], [[tread#English|tread]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Dutch==

===Verb===
{{infl|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|n=sg|t=past|m=subj|treden}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/tʁɛd/}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|trader||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|trader||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|trader||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|trader||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|trader||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}

===Anagrams===
* [[dater#French|dater]]
* [[tarde#French|tarde]], [[tardé#French|tardé]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|trāde}}

# {{conjugation of|trado|trādō|2|s|pres|act|imp|lang=la}}

[[ar:trade]]
[[cs:trade]]
[[de:trade]]
[[et:trade]]
[[el:trade]]
[[es:trade]]
[[eo:trade]]
[[fr:trade]]
[[gl:trade]]
[[ko:trade]]
[[hr:trade]]
[[io:trade]]
[[id:trade]]
[[it:trade]]
[[kn:trade]]
[[kk:trade]]
[[ku:trade]]
[[lo:trade]]
[[lt:trade]]
[[li:trade]]
[[hu:trade]]
[[ml:trade]]
[[my:trade]]
[[nl:trade]]
[[ja:trade]]
[[no:trade]]
[[pl:trade]]
[[pt:trade]]
[[ru:trade]]
[[simple:trade]]
[[fi:trade]]
[[sv:trade]]
[[ta:trade]]
[[te:trade]]
[[uk:trade]]
[[vi:trade]]
[[zh:trade]]