==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=trail (disambiguation)|trail}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|trāl}}, {{IPA|/treɪl/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/treIl/}}
* {{audio|En-us-trail.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪl}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|en}} ''[[trahere]]'', to drag along

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To follow behind (someone or something); to tail (someone or something).
#: ''The hunters trailed their prey deep into the woods.''
# {{transitive}} To drag (something) behind on the ground.
#: ''You'll get your coat all muddy if you trail it around like that.''
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 1
#*: "I saw your brother—I saw your brother," he said, nodding his head, as Archer lagged past him, '''trailing''' his spade, and scowling at the old gentleman in spectacles.
# {{transitive}} To leave (a trail of).
#: ''He walked into the house, soaking wet, and trailed water all over the place.''
# {{transitive}} To show a [[trailer]] of (a film, TV show etc.); to release or publish a preview of (a report etc.) in advance of the full publication.
#: ''His new film was trailed on TV last night.''
#: ''There were no surprises in this morning's much-trailed budget statement.''
# To be [[lose|losing]], to be behind in a competition.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=December 29
|author=Keith Jackson
|title=SPL: Celtic 1 Rangers 0
|work=Daily Record
|url=http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/football/spl/celtic/2011/12/29/spl-celtic-1-rangers-0-86908-23665738/
|page=
|passage=Neil Lennon and his players have, in almost no time at all, roared back from '''trailing''' Rangers by 15 points in November to ending the year two points clear.}}

====Derived terms====
<!--derived from the verb-->
* [[trailer]]
* [[trail off]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|follow behind}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|følge}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|seurata}}, {{t+|fi|jäljittää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pister}}, {{t+|fr|suivre}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spur}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|pedinare}}, {{t+|it|seguire}}, {{t+|it|inseguire}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|aru}}
* Polish: [[śledzić]], [[tropić]]
* Russian: [[идти по следу]]; {{t+|ru|выслеживать|tr=vysl'éživat'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|выследить|tr=výsl'edit'}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|drag behind}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|جر|alt=جرّ|tr=jarra|sc=Arab}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|raahata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|traîner}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|trascinare}}, {{t+|it|trainare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kitō}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тянуть|tr=tjanút'}}, {{t+|ru|волочить|tr=voločít'}}, {{t+|ru|тащить|tr=taščít'}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|slaod}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|arrastrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|leave (a trail of)}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jättää jälkeensä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[lasciare|lasciar]] [[traccia|tracce]] di
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|trail|trail (route)}}
{{en-noun}}

# The [[track]] or [[indication]] marking the [[route]] followed by something that has passed, such as the [[footprint]]s of animal on land or the [[contrail]] of an airplane in the sky.
# A route for travel over land, especially a [[narrow]], [[unpaved]] [[pathway]] for use by hikers, horseback riders, etc.
# A [[trailer]] broadcast on television for a forthcoming film or programme.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|track of an animal}} [[spoor]], [[sign]]
* {{sense|route for travel over land}} [[dirt track]], [[footpath]], [[path]], [[track]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''trail'' (noun)}}
* [[condensation trail]], [[contrail]]
* [[paper trail]]
* [[sawdust trail]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[star trail]]
* [[trail bike]]
* [[trailblazer]] (see [[blazer]])
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[trailblazing]]
* [[trail mix]]
* [[vapour trail|vapo(u)r trail]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|track followed by a hunter}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|spor}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spoor}}
* Finnish: [[jälki]]
* French: {{t+|fr|piste|f}}, {{t+|fr|traces|f-p}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ნაკვალევი|tr=nakvalevi|sc=Geor}}, {{t-|ka|კვალი|tr=kvali|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spur|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ίχνος|n|tr=íchnos|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|traccia|f}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|vestigia|alt=vestīgia|n-p}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|trop|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rasto|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|след|m|tr=sl'ed}}
* Telugu: [[జాడ]] (jaaDa)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|route for travel over land}}
* {{trreq|hy}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|route}}, {{t+|nl|pad|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|reitti}}, {{t-|fi|eräreitti}}, {{t+|fi|polku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|piste|f}}, {{t+|fr|sentier|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ბილიკი|tr=biliki|sc=Geor}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μονοπάτι|n|tr=monopáti|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sentiero|m}}, {{t+|it|pista|f}}
* {{trreq|ko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|semita|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|makenu}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ścieżka|f}}
* {{trreq|ro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тропа|f|tr=tropá}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|slighe|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sendero|m}}
* Telugu: [[జాడ]] (jaaDa)
* {{trreq|tr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[path]]
* [[track]]

===Anagrams===
* [[litra#English|litra]]
* [[trial#English|trial]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[dual-sport#English|Dual-sport]] [[motorcycle]]
# [[trail#English|Trail]] running

[[cy:trail]]
[[et:trail]]
[[el:trail]]
[[es:trail]]
[[eo:trail]]
[[fa:trail]]
[[fr:trail]]
[[gl:trail]]
[[ko:trail]]
[[io:trail]]
[[it:trail]]
[[kn:trail]]
[[ka:trail]]
[[ku:trail]]
[[lt:trail]]
[[li:trail]]
[[hu:trail]]
[[mg:trail]]
[[ml:trail]]
[[ja:trail]]
[[pl:trail]]
[[pt:trail]]
[[ru:trail]]
[[simple:trail]]
[[fi:trail]]
[[sv:trail]]
[[ta:trail]]
[[te:trail]]
[[th:trail]]
[[vi:trail]]
[[zh:trail]]