==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|xgender}} {{q|abbreviation}}

===Etymology===
From {{prefix|en|trans|gender}}. First used in English by John Oliven in 1965,<ref name="Bevan"/> the term had acquired its current senses by the 1990s (by which time it had also largely displaced the earlier term {{m|en|transsexual}}; see usage notes).<ref name="TR2006"/>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/tɹænzˈd͡ʒɛn.dɚ/}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/tɹanzˈd͡ʒɛn.də/}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɛndə(ɹ)|s=3}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-transgender.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|narrowly}} Having a [[gender]] ([[gender identity|identity]]) which is different from the [[sex]] one was [[assign]]ed at birth: being [[male-assigned|assigned male at birth]] but having a female or [[non-binary]] gender or vice versa; or, pertaining to such people. {{qualifier|Compare ''[[transsexual]]'', and the following two senses.}}
#* '''2010''', Jessica Green, "I'm sorry, I'm not lesbian", ''The Guardian'', 3 Mar 2010:
#*: One head of a small gay charity visibly flinched when I mentioned my boyfriend and has been cold towards me ever since. I've even caught someone staring down my top to see if I'm '''transgender'''.
#* '''2010''', Natasha Lennard, "City Room", ''New York Times'', 7 Apr 2010:
#*: But the inclusion of the word “trannie” — a pejorative, in some circles — in the title, and the film’s parodic representation of '''transgender''' women, has offended many people.
# {{lb|en|very|_|narrowly|often|_|offensive|proscribed}} Having a [[gender]] ([[gender identity|identity]]) which is opposite from the [[sex]] one was [[assign]]ed at birth: being [[male-assigned|assigned male at birth]] but having a [[female]] gender, or vice versa; or, pertaining to such people.
# {{lb|en|broadly}} Not identifying with culturally conventional gender roles and categories of [[male]] or [[female]]; having changed gender identity from male to female or female to male, or identifying with elements of both, or having some other [[gender identity]]; or, pertaining to such people. {{qualifier|Compare ''[[genderqueer]]'', ''[[transsexual]]''.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|journal=Maximum rocknroll|issue=109|year=1992|passage=I think the new punk rockers are going to be more androgynous, more bisexual, more '''transgender''', more ethnically diverse and less willing to take shit than ...}}
#* '''1998''', John Cloud, "Trans across America", ''Time'', 20 Feb 1998:
#*: Their first step was to reclaim the power to name themselves: '''transgender''' is now the term most widely used, and it encompasses everyone from cross-dressers (those who dress in clothes of the opposite sex) to transsexuals (those who surgically "correct" their genitals to match their "real" gender).
# {{lb|en|of a space}} Intended primarily for transgender people.
#* '''2001''', Walter O. Bockting, Sheila Kirk, ''Transgender and HIV: Risks, Prevention, and Care'', page 46:
#*: In Boston, no AIDS prevention messages are posted at the primary drag queen and '''transgender''' bar.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2011|author=Connie Emerson|title=Top 10 Las Vegas|isbn=0756687640|passage=The Las Vegas Lounge is the city's only '''transgender bar'''.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2013|author=Norbert Paxton|title=The Rough Guide to Korea|isbn=1409350592|passage=''Trance'' A thriving '''transgender''' bar on the main Itaewon drag, {{...}}}}
# {{lb|en|of a space}} Available for use by transgender people (in addition to non-transgender people).<!--in only some uses, it means something like gender-neutral-->
#* '''2002''' October 2, ''Boston Globe'', ''Group wants '''transgender''' bathrooms for UMASS'', quoted in '''2010''', Sheila L. Cavanagh, ''Queering Bathrooms'' {{ISBN|1442699973}}
#* '''2010''', Harvey Molotch, Laura Noren, ''Toilet: Public Restrooms and the Politics of Sharing'', page 199:
#*: Why the sudden outcry for '''transgender''' bathrooms?
#* '''2013''', William Keith, Christian O. Lundberg, ''Public Speaking: Choice and Responsibility'':
#*: In contrast, in a democratic conversation or dialogue, the speaker would begin by identifying the larger public issues that connect to the availability of '''transgender''' bathrooms: equality, civil rights, {{...}}

====Usage notes====
* The term ''transgender'' was coined in 1965<ref name="Bevan">Thomas E. Bevan, ''The Psychobiology of Transsexualism and Transgenderism'' (2014, {{ISBN|1440831270}}, page 42: "The term transsexual was introduced by Cauldwell (1949) and popularized by Harry Benjamin (1966) [...]. The term transgender was coined by John Oliven (1965) and popularized by various transgender people [... including] many transgender people [who] advocated the use of the term much more than Prince. [...] Transsexuals constitute a subset of transgender people."</ref> and popularized in the late 1970s,<ref name="Dict">{{R:Dictionary.com}}</ref><ref>{{R:Merriam-Webster Online}}</ref> and by the 1990s it had largely displaced the older, narrower term {{m|en|transsexual}}.<ref name="TR2006">''Transgender Rights'' (2006, {{ISBN|0816643121}}, edited by Paisley Currah, Richard M. Juang, Shannon Minter; page 4: "From signifying a subject position between cross-dresser and transsexual, the meaning of ''transgender'' expanded radically in the early 1990s to include them, along with other cross-gender practices and identities."</ref><ref>{{cite-web
|work=Google Books Ngram Viewer
|title=transgender,transsexual
|url=https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=transgender%2Ctranssexual&year_start=1960&year_end=2013&corpus=15&smoothing=3&share=&direct_url=t1%3B%2Ctransgender%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Ctranssexual%3B%2Cc0
|accessdate=December 5, 2017}}</ref> ''Transsexual'' is now often considered outdated<ref name="Dict"/> although some people still prefer it; see {{l|en|transsexual|its entry}} for more. Neither term should be confused with {{m|en|transvestite}} (which see for more).
* For the usage of this word (and similar adjectives) as a noun, see below.<!--This note is necessary because several other pages point to this page's usage notes, meaning the notes below rather than the etymological notes here.-->

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|TG}} {{qualifier|abbreviated form}}
* {{l|en|trans}} {{qualifier|abbreviated form}}
* {{l|en|trans*}} {{qualifier|abbreviated form, broad sense}}
* {{l|en|transgendered}} {{qualifier|uncommon|offensive}}

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|cisgender}}

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|LGBT}}

====Hyponyms====
{{col3|en|title=not identifying with culturally conventional gender roles and categories
|agender
|ambigender
|bigender
|genderfluid
|genderqueer
|non-binary
|third gender
|transsexed
|[[transsexual]] ([[TS]])
|trigender
}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|en
|[[transgenderisation]], [[transgenderization]]
|[[transgenderise]], [[transgenderize]]
|transgenderism
|transgenderist
|transgenderness}}

====Related terms====
{{rel2|en
|gender-free
|transgenderal
|transsex
}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|ca|transgènere|cal=1}}
* {{desc|nl|transgender|bor=1}}
* {{desc|fr|transgenre|cal=1}}
* {{desc|de|transgender|bor=1}}
* {{desc|ja|-|bor=1}} {{ja-r|トランスジェンダー}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having a gender identity different from the sex one was assigned at birth}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|transgenero}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|transgènere}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|transgenrulo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|transsoolisus}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|transsukupuolinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|transgenre}}, {{t+|fr|trans}}
* German: {{t+|de|transgender}}, {{t+|de|trans}}, {{t|de|trans*}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|transfólk}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|trasinscneach}}
* Italian: {{t|it|transgenere}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|irawhiti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Nepali: {{t+|ne|पारलैङ्गिक व्यक्ति}}
* Newar: {{t|new|यितामि}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|transkjønnet}}, {{t+|nb|transperson}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|transkjønna}}, {{t|nn|transperson}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|transpłciowość}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|transgénero}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|tar-ghnèitheach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|transgénero}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|transperson}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|trawsryweddol|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not identifying with culturally conventional gender roles}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مُتَحَوِّل الجِنْسِ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|трансджендър}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|transgènere}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|跨性別|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|跨性别|tr=kuàxìngbié|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|transgender}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|transgenra}}, {{t+|eo|transseksa}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muunsukupuolinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|transgenre}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|transxénero|m}}, {{t|gl|transxénera|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|transgender}}, {{t+|de|trans}}, {{t|de|trans*}}, {{t|de|transgeschlechtlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διεμφυλικός|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|טרנסג׳נדרי}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|transznemű}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|transgenra}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|トランスジェンダー|tr=toransujendā}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|трансгендерлық}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|transkjønnet}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|transgénero}} {{qualifier|Portugal}}, {{t+|pt|transgênero}} {{qualifier|Brazil}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|transgen}}, {{t|ro|transgender}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|трансге́ндерный|tr=transgéndɛrnyj}}, {{t+|ru|транссексуа́льный|tr=transsɛksuálʹnyj}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|tar-ghnèitheach}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|transrodan|m}}, {{t|sh|transrodna|f}}, {{t|sh|трансродна|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|transgénero}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|könsöverskridande}}
* Tigrinya: {{t|ti|ስግረ ጾተኛ|m}}, {{t|ti|ስግረ ጾተኛዊት|f}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|trawsryweddol|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|s}}

# {{lb|en|countable|now|often|offensive}} A [[#Adjective|transgender]] person.
#* '''2005''', Walter Bockting & Eric Avery, ''Transgender Health and HIV Prevention'', page 116:
#*: In a patriarchal society in which ''machismo'' rules, MTF '''transgenders''' represent a challenge to traditional masculinity due to their renouncing of the male position of social power.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2006|author=Jayne Caudwell|title=Sport, Sexualities and Queer/theory|page=122|passage=Individual '''transgenders''' could compete in any division; however, transgender teams could not play against biological women's teams.}}
#* '''2014''', Sheila Jeffreys, ''Gender Hurts'' (page 70)
#*: This public presentation of the mutilation of the penis is not obviously very different from the forms of disassembly of the penis engaged in by male body modifiers – particularly nullos and '''transgenders''' – on the Body Modification Ezine website.
#* '''2015''', Helen Davies, ''Transgender woman forced to move house after death threats and knife in her front door'' (in ''The Liverpool Echo'')
#*: Nat spent years being victimised as a male to female '''transgender''' but was too scared to report it.
# {{lb|en|uncountable|rare}} [[transgenderism|Transgenderism]]; the state of being [[#Adjective|transgender]]. {{qualifier|Compare ''[[transsex]]''.}}
#* '''2007''', Alison Stone, ''An Introduction to Feminist Philosophy'' {{ISBN|074563883X}}, page 41
#*: Before we can answer this question, we need to consider two other phenomena – transsex and '''transgender''' – which also expose the muddle within conventional categories of sex.

====Usage notes====
* In Western countries, many transgender people consider the use of ''transgender'' (and similar adjectives) as a noun to be offensive, and several guides advise against such usage.<ref>[http://www.glaad.org/reference/transgender GLAAD media reference guide]:<br>Problematic: "transgenders," "a transgender"<br>Preferred: transgender people, a transgender person<br>''Transgender'' should be used as an adjective, not as a noun. Do not say, "Tony is a transgender," or "The parade included many transgenders." Instead say, "Tony is a transgender man," or "The parade included many transgender people."</ref><ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20180801105220/http://handbook.reuters.com/?title=T#transgender Reuters ''Handbook of Journalism'']: Do not use transgender as a noun; no one should be referred to as “a transgender.”</ref><ref>[http://www.theguardian.com/guardian-observer-style-guide-t Guardian and Observer style guide]: use transgender [...] only as an adjective: transgender person, trans person; never "transgendered person" or "a transgender"</ref><ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20171222083800/http://www.bbc.co.uk/academy/journalism/news-style-guide/article/art20130702112133564 BBC News style guide]: "Do not say 'transsexuals', in the same way we would not talk about 'gays' or 'blacks'."</ref> "A transgender man" (for a man who was assigned the female sex at birth) or "a transgender woman" (for the reverse) is frequently more appropriate.

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|LGBT}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|two-spirit}}, {{l|en|berdache}}
* {{l|en|hijra}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a transgender person}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَحَوُّل الْجِنْسِيّ|m}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|տրանսգենդեր}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|трансге́ндар|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|রূপান্তরিত লিঙ্গ|sc=Beng}}
* Breton: {{t|br|treuzrevelezh}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|трансджендър|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|transgènere|m|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|跨性別者|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|跨性别者|tr=kuàxìngbiézhě|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t|da|transperson|c}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|transgenrulo}}, {{t+|eo|transseksulo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|transihminen}}, {{t+|fi|transsukupuolinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|transgenre|m|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|transexual|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ტრანსგენდერი}}
* German: {{t|de|Trans-Person|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διεμφυλικός|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|טרנסג׳נדר|alt=טרנסג'נדר}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|transzneműség}}, {{t+|hu|transznemű}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|transfólk}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|transgenro}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|transgender}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|トランスジェンダー|tr=toransujendā}}, {{t|ja|性別越境者|tr=せいべつえっきょうしゃ, seibetsu ekkyōsha}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|트랜스젠더}}
* Latin: {{t|la|transgener|m}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|ഭിന്നലിംഗർ|sc=Mlym}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|tránsaolmmoš}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|transperson|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|transgénero|m}} {{qualifier|Portugal}}, {{t+|pt|transgênero|m}} {{qualifier|Brazil}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|transgen|n}}, {{t|ro|transgender}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|трансге́ндер|m|tr=transgéndɛr}}, {{t+|ru|транссексуа́л|m|tr=transsɛksuál}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|tar-ghnèitheach|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|трансродно|n}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|transrodno|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|transgénero|m}}, {{t|es|transgénera|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|msenge}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|transperson|c}}
* Tigrinya: {{t|ti|ስግረ ጾተኛ|m}}, {{t|ti|ስግረ ጾተኛዊት|f}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|трансге́ндер|m}}, {{t|uk|трансге́ндерка|f}}, {{t|uk|трансґе́ндер|m}}, {{t|uk|трансґе́ндерка|f}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|trawsrywedd}}
* Yurok: {{t|yur|wergern}} / {{t|yur|wrgrn}}<!--linguistic orthography--> {{qualifier|male-bodied person who lives as a woman}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|uncommon}} To change the [[gender]] of; {{lb|en|used loosely}} to change the [[sex]] of. {{qualifier|Compare ''[[transsex]]''.}}
#* '''2005''', Sue Tolleson-Rinehart, Jyl J. Josephson, ''Gender and American Politics'' {{ISBN|0765631563}}, pages 15 and 205:
#*: {{...}} and one that is still dominated by male nominees, women nominees might be seen as either contributing to the regendering, or the '''transgendering''', of the Cabinet.
#*: {{...}}
#*: This chapter examines women secretaries-designate in terms of their contributions to regendering or '''transgendering''' a cabinet office, to a gender desegregation or integration of the cabinet.
#* {{seeCites|en}}

====Usage notes====
* In Western countries, many transgender people consider the use of ''transgender'' (and similar adjectives) as a verb in reference to transgender individuals to be offensive, much the same as its use as a noun.<ref>[http://www.theguardian.com/guardian-observer-style-guide-t Guardian and Observer style guide]: use transgender [...] only as an adjective: transgender person, trans person; never "transgendered person" or "a transgender"</ref> "A transgender man" (for a man who was assigned the female sex at birth) or "a transgender woman" (for a woman who was assigned the male sex at birth) is frequently more appropriate.

====Related terms====
{{rel-top}}
* {{l|en|trans}}
* {{l|en|trans female}}, {{l|en|trans male}}
* {{l|en|transgendered}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|trans man}}, {{l|en|trans person}}, {{l|en|trans woman}}
* {{l|en|transphobia}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|LGBT}}, {{l|en|LGBTQ}}, {{l|en|LGBTQIA}}
* {{l|en|crossdress}}; [[drag]]
* {{l|en|SRS}}
* {{l|en|intersex}}
* {{l|en|acault}}
* {{l|en|sworn virgin}}

===References===
<references/>

{{topics|en|Gender|LGBT|People|Transgender}}

----

==Afrikaans==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|af|LL-Q14196 (afr)-Oesjaar-transgender.wav|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{head|af|adjective}}

# [[#English|transgender]]

[[Category:af:Gender]]
[[Category:af:LGBT]]
[[Category:af:Transgender]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{der|nl|en|transgender}}. See also {{m|nl|gender}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|nl|Nl-transgender.ogg|Audio}}
* {{IPA|nl|/ˈtrɑns.ɣɛn.dər/|/ˈtrɑns.dʒɛn.dər/}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|inv|-}}

# [[#English|transgender]]

====See also====
* {{l|nl|transseksueel}}

[[Category:nl:Gender]]
[[Category:nl:LGBT]]
[[Category:nl:Transgender]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
{{bor+|de|en|transgender}}. {{surf|de|trans-|Gender}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/tʁansˈdʒɛndɐ/}}
* {{audio|de|De-transgender.ogg|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{de-adj|predonly}}

# [[#English|transgender]]
#: {{cot|de|transgeschlechtlich|transsexuell|transident}}
#* {{quote-journal|de|author=Julika Kott|title=Onlinemagazin von trans Frauen: Ein Gegenschlag|work=Die Tageszeitung: taz|date=2021-09-24|url=https://taz.de/!5800963/|issn=0931-9085|passage=Auf Youtube, Instagram und Twitter schreibt und spricht die Redaktion etwa über vergessene trans Personen aus der Geschichte, trans Rechte und Transphobie. In der Redaktion von ''XY Média'' in Paris sind alle 18 Mitarbeitenden '''transgender'''.}}

====Declension====
{{de-adecl|predonly}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:Duden}}
* {{R:DWDS}}

{{C|de|Gender|LGBT|Transgender}}