==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[transexual]]

===Etymology===
{{prefix|trans|sexual}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|of a person}} Being a [[#Noun|transsexual]].
# {{rfv-sense}} Having characteristics of transsexuals.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|being a transsexual}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having characteristics of transsexuals}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|transseksuaalinen}},  {{t|fi|transsukupuolinen}}
* Italian: transsesuale
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|transexual}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A person whose gender self-image contradicts their physical sex.
# {{rfv-sense|many transsexuals get these treatments, but do tey really define a transsexual?}} {{medicine}} One who has undergone hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and/or [[sex reassignment surgery]] (SRS).
#* {{ante|1998}} Myra Love, ''Reality’s Friends'', excerpted in Gertrude M. James Gonzalez and Anne J. M. Mamary (editors), ''Cultural Activisms: Poetic Voices, Political Voices'', SUNY Press (1999), ISBN 978-0-7914-3965-4, [http://books.google.com/books?id=BDboCztcUoIC&pg=PA107&dq=transsexual page 107]:
#*: He claimed that they had this wonderful and loving relationship in which the '''transsexual'''-to-be had felt that his suitor truly loved him the way he was and didn’t want him to have the surgery, {{...}}
#* {{ante|2006}} anonymous, “My Husband’s Secret”, in Grandma Joy, ''Grandma Joy's Hope for Hurting Women: Healing the Wounds of the Past and Gaining Hope for the Future'', Destiny Image Publishers (2006), ISBN 978-0-7684-2351-8, [http://books.google.com/books?id=sitDp-3kf6wC&pg=PA133&dq=transsexual page 133]:
#*: He was wearing women’s clothes before he had the surgery; they, he actually became a '''transsexual''', and they (amazingly) stayed together.

====Usage notes====
{{unreferenced}}
The attributive use of ''transsexual'' as an adjective is sometimes regarded by transsexual people as inappropriate, as this may detract from the primacy of their gender identity. Example: ''"I am a transsexual woman."'' Likewise, ''transman'' and ''transwoman'' primarily refer to any transgender persons; transsexual persons may or may not identify as transgender or adopt such terms.  Slang usage such as ''transie'', ''tranny'', and ''shemale'' may also refer to either transgender or transsexual persons, but are considered pejorative by some people.

The use of the word transsexual as a noun is also often regarded by TS people as highly inappropriate as it detracts from the primacy of their actually being a person.
Example: "I am a transsexual person". This may however be subject to regional variation in the same way that it is considered acceptable in parts of South Africa to refer to someone as "a black" as opposed to "a black person" or "a black woman".

In everyday usage, if you have to use the "T" word it is most appropriate to use it as an adjective. The fact someone may have a transexual background is an aspect of them and is not the thing that most defines them.

====Synonyms====
* [[TS]]
* [[transperson]]

====Hyponyms====
* [[transman]] (''female-to-male transsexual'')
* [[transwoman]]  (''male-to-female transsexual'')

====Hypernyms====
* [[transgender]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|self-image}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}:
* Chinese:
*: {{trreq|Mandarin}}:
* Finnish: {{t|fi|transseksuaali}}, {{t|fi|transsukupuolinen}}, {{t|fi|transu}}
* {{trreq|French}}:
* {{trreq|German}}:
* {{trreq|Italian}}:
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Japanese}}:
* {{trreq|Korean}}:
* {{trreq|Polish}}:
* {{trreq|Portuguese}}:
* Russian: {{t|ru|транссексуал|m|tr=transseksuál|sc=Cyrl}}
* {{trreq|Spanish}}:
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|medicine}}
*{{trreq|Arabic}}:
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|變性者|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|变性者|tr=biànxìngzhě|sc=Hani}}
* {{trreq|Finnish}}:
* {{trreq|French}}:
* {{trreq|German}}:
* {{trreq|Italian}}:
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|性転換者|tr=せいてんかん しゃ, seitenkansha|sc=Jpan}}
* {{trreq|Korean}}:
* {{trreq|Polish}}:
* {{trreq|Portuguese}}:
* Russian: {{t|ru|транссексуал|m|tr=transseksuál|sc=Cyrl}}
* {{trreq|Spanish}}:
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|變性者|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|变性者|tr=biànxìngzhě|sc=Hani}}
* French: {{t|fr|transsexuel|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Transsexuell|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|性転換者|tr=せいてんかん しゃ, seitenkansha|sc=Jpan}}
* Italian: [[transessuale]] {{m}},{{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[transsexualism]] (''also known as [[transsexuality]]'')

====See also====
* [[male-to-female]]
* [[female-to-male]]
* [[intersexuality]]
* [[transgender]]
* [[transvestite]]
* [[w:Transsexuality|Wikipedia article on transsexuality]]
* [http://ai.eecs.umich.edu/people/conway/conway.html Lynn Conway's website on transsexuality]
* [http://www.tsroadmap.com Andrea James' web resources for gender transition]

[[et:transsexual]]
[[ro:transsexual]]
[[ru:transsexual]]
[[fi:transsexual]]
[[ta:transsexual]]
[[vi:transsexual]]
[[zh:transsexual]]