==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|en}} {{term|trans-|lang=la}} + {{term|vestite|lang=la}}, form of {{term|vestiō||I clothe, I dress|lang=la}} (as in English {{term|vestment|lang=en}}, {{term|vest|lang=en}}). Literally, a "cross-dresser".

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A person who wears [[clothes]] traditionally worn by and associated with the other [[sex]]; the term is typically associated with males.

This term is relatively formal (Latinate); {{term|cross-dresser|lang=en}} is more casual, but whereas the verb {{term|cross-dress|lang=en}} is common, the verb {{term|transvest|lang=en}} is quite rare.

The term transvestite (or TV) is one that most people get confused with and is often misused. To some, it’s considered a derogatory term for a cross-dresser, which is no longer being used. However, largely, it is used to describe a person who dresses in clothing traditionally or stereotypically worn by the other sex during parts (or all) of their everyday life, but not consisting of their professional life. So for instance, a transvestite would typically dress in clothing of the other gender at home, but would consistently dress appropriate to their gender at work. These individuals have no immediate intent to live full-time as the other gender (as in the case with transsexualism), but may seriously contemplate it. These individuals are thought to live double-lives; or, more or less, androgynously.  These individuals do not wear clothing of the other sex to satisfy a sexual drive, but rather is limited to an emotional drive. The term is often confused with crossdresser, who unlike transvestites, dress primarily to fulfill a sexual drive.

Historically people have used "opposite sex" when referring to members of the sex thought to be opposite theirs, however, the "other sex" is now used because it is widely believed that we are all more alike than different. There is value placed on using terms in a politically correct manner so as to not confuse and/or offend people sensitive to these matters.

Transvestites are not to be confused with transsexuals. The term transsexual (TS) is applied to people whose gender identity is different from their assigned sex at birth. Often transsexual individuals alter or wish to alter their bodies through hormones or surgery in order to make it match their gender identity; to achieve congruity with one's body. The main difference that distinguishes the two is that a transsexual presents 100% of the time as the other gender from which was assigned at birth, while the transvestite does not.

The transvestite term is specifically derived from the DSM diagnosed disorder: transvestic fetishism. It implies that these individuals dress to fulfill a sexual drive and are though to be sexual deviants. This is the main reason why the term is largely misunderstood and misused. While it has roots stemming from this diagnosis, it is not the same thing. The DSM has since been updated to reflect the reality that much like gender identity disorder (GID) which is now known as gender dysphoria; the condition itself is not a disorder. This implies that the gender issues are not a disorder, nor are the individuals inherently disordered, but rather the diagnosis is used to treat the symptoms caused by the distress of incongruity of one’s body.

While GID has been replaced by gender dysphoria in the current DSM and is officially used as a diagnosis (within clinical psychology), Dr. Vitale, a leading psychoanalyst and therapist in gender studies, has suggested that instead the condition be termed Gender Expression Deprivation Anxiety Disorder (GEDAD). The theory suggests that the anxiety one experiences when in conflict with one of the basic tenets of existence is directly caused by the deprivation experienced in expressing their gender identity and how this anxiety, if left untreated, is manifested in each of the five developmental stages of life.

The apparent need to categorize these terms and apply labels to individuals reflects the ideology of entrenched cisnormativity. People fear that which they don't understand. Given this, there will always appear to be a need to pathologize or treat (someone or something) as psychologically abnormal or unhealthy. The Null HypotheCis has been coined for this very reason; which basically theorizes that  internalized cisnormativity leads gender nonconformists or gays to believe that there is a need to prove to themselves that they are, in fact, trans; (or for gays – that they are in fact even gay) but that being cisgender is simply taken as a given. It isn’t held to any comparable standard of evidence, and thus skews many toward an endless pursuit of a “proof” that can never be found. This is also largely seen in conformity in that these individuals feel they must hide what they do so as to not be shamed or treated as deviants.

The entire gatekeeping perspective, within clinical psychology, is an extreme externalization of entrenched cisnormativity. The assumption is that being cisgender is what’s normal; that it’s the null hypothesis. The burden of proof falls entirely on the hypothesis that a patient is trans, or gay, or GNC, and that they must meet a number of strict criteria before claims to the gender identity in question will ever be accepted as true. The idea that one’s subjective identity can’t be legitimate unless it’s somehow able to be backed up with objective evidence is illogical.

''Transvestite'' should not be confused with ''[[transgender]]'' or {{term|transsexual||a person who lives as a member of a sex different from their assigned birth sex}}. Transvestites generally have less or no desire to change their sex; of if they do there are many factors involved which keep them from doing so.
The term should also not be confused with {{term|drag queen||male who wears women’s clothing for public performance}}; a drag queen is used in the context of a performer.

====Synonyms====
* [[cross-dresser]]
* {{qualifier|pejorative}} [[tranny]]
* [[TV]]
* ''see also'' [[Wikisaurus:transvestite]]

====Derived terms====
* [[transvestic]]
* [[transvestic fetishism]]
* [[transvestism]]
* [[transvestitism]]

====Related terms====
* [[transgender]]
* [[transsexual]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top-also|cross-dresser|cross-dresser}}
* Arabic: {{t-needed|ar}}:
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: [[契第]] (kai daih)
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|易裝癖|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|易装癖|tr=yìzhūangpì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|人妖|tr=rényāo|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: ah qua / ah kua (Hokkien)
* Czech: {{t|cs|transvestita|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|transvestit|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|travestiet}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|transvestulo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|transvestiitti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|travesti}}, {{t+|fr|travelo|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Transvestit}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τραβεστί|n}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|banci}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|trasfheisteoir|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|travestito}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|異性装者|tr=いせいそうしゃ, iseisōsha}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|mak nyah}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|háádadiitʼįįhígíí}}, {{t|nv|łaʼinidílnééh}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|no|transvestitt|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|transvestitt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|travesti|m|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|трансвестит|m|tr=transvestít}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|трансвестит|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|transvestit|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|travesti}}, [[transformista]] {{qualifier|Venezuela}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|transvestit|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|travesti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:LGBT]]

[[eu:transvestite]]
[[io:transvestite]]
[[ml:transvestite]]
[[my:transvestite]]
[[pl:transvestite]]
[[simple:transvestite]]
[[fi:transvestite]]
[[sv:transvestite]]
[[ta:transvestite]]
[[tr:transvestite]]
[[vi:transvestite]]
[[zh:transvestite]]