{{also|translaté}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[translaten]]'' from Classical Latin ''[[translatus]]'', past participle of ''[[transferre]]'', from ''[[trans-]]'' “across” + ''[[latus]]'', "borne", "carried", irregular perfect passive participle of verb ''[[ferre]]'' “to bear”. Displaced native {{enm}} ''[[awenden#Middle English|awenden]]'' "to change, translate" (from {{ang}} ''[[awendan#Old English|āwendan]]''), {{enm}} ''[[irecchen#Middle English|irecchen]]'' "to explain, expound, interpret" (from {{ang}} ''[[gereccan#Old English|ġereccan]]''), and {{ang}} ''[[geþeodan#Old English|ġeþēodan]]'' "to engage in, translate".

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/tɹɑːnz'leɪt/}}
* {{audio|En-uk-to translate.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈtɹæ:nzleɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-translate.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪt}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|translat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[change]] [[text]] (of a book, document, Web site, movie, anime, video game etc.) from one [[language]] to another.
#: ''Hans diligently '''translated''' the novel from German into English.''
# {{intransitive}} To have a translation into another language.
#: ''That idiom doesn't readily '''translate'''.
#: ''"Dog" '''translates''' as "chien" in French.''
# {{transitive}} To change from one [[form]] or [[medium]] to another.
#: ''The renowned director could '''translate''' experience to film with ease.''
# {{intransitive}} To change from one form to another.
#: ''His sales experience '''translated''' well into his new job as a fund-raiser.''
# {{transitive|physics}} To subject (a body) to [[translation]], i.e., to move a body on a linear path with no rotation.
# {{transitive|archaic}} To move or carry from one place or position to another; to [[transfer]].
#: ''The monk '''translated''' the holy relics to their new shrine.''
# {{transitive|Christianity}} To remove to heaven without a natural death.
#: ''By faith Enoch was '''translated''', that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had '''translated''' him.'' Heb. xi. 5.
# {{transitive|Christianity}} To remove, as a bishop, from one [[see]] to another.
#: ''Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, when the king would have '''translated''' him from that poor [[bishopric]] to a better,...refused.'' Camden.
# {{transitive|obsolete}} To cause to lose senses or recollection; to [[entrance]].
#: ''William was '''translated''' by the blow to the head he received, being unable to speak for the next few minutes.''

====Related terms====
* [[translation]]
* [[translator]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To change text from one language to another}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[vertaal]]
* [[Alabama]]: [[ayitika]] (oral), [[paahossochi]] (written)
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|përkthej|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ترجم|tr=tárjama|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|թարգմանել|tr=t’argmanel}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|অনুবাদ করা|tr=ônubad kôra|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}, {{t|bn|তর্জমা করা |tr=tôrjôma kôra|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* [[Breton]]: [[treiñ]], ''radical'' tro-
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|превеждам|tr=preveždam}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[traduïr]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|翻譯|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|翻译|tr=fānyì|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|prevesti}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přeložit}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|oversætte}}
* Dutch: [[vertalen]], [[overzetten]] {{qualifier|archaic}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|traduki|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tõlkima}}
* Finnish: [[kääntää]]; ''verbs, where one single word means "to translate into language X", can be created by adding '''-taa'''/'''-tää''' to the genitive form of a language, e.g. [[suomi|suomen]] + -taa > [[suomentaa]]''
* French: {{t+|fr|traduire}}
* German: {{t+|de|übersetzen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μεταφράζω}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|תרגם |alt=תִּרְגֵּם |tr=tirgem}}
* [[Hiligaynon]]: [[badbad]]
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|अनुवाद करना|tr=anuvād karnā|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fordít}}, {{t+|hu|lefordít}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þýða}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|terjemah|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|menerjemahkan|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tradurre}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|訳す|tr=やくす, yakusu|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|翻訳する|tr=ほんやくする, honyaku-suru|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|번역하다|tr=beonyeok-hada|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|traducere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|tulkot}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|преведува|tr=prevéduva}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[തര്‍ജ്ജമ]] (tharjjama), [[മൊഴിമാറ്റം]] (mozhimaattam), [[പരിഭാഷ]] (paribhaasha)
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|ittraduċa|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Manchu]]: (ubaliyambumbi)
* Mongolian: {{t-|mn|орчуулах|tr=orčuulakh|sc=Cyrl|xs=Mongolian}}
* [[Neapolitan]]: {{tø|nap|tradùcere|xs=Neapolitan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|oversette}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{t|ps|ترجمه کول|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* [[Pennsylvania German]]: {{tø|pdc|iwwersetze}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[ترجمه کردن]]}} {{unicode|(tárjome kárdán)}}, {{t|fa|ترجمه کردن|tr=tárjome kárdán|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|tłumaczyć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|traduzir}}
* Romanian: a [[traduce]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|переводить|tr=perevodít’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|перевести|tr=perevestí|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scots]]: [[pit ower]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|eadar-theangaich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: [[prekladať]] ''[[impf.]]'', [[preložiť]] ''[[pf.]]''
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prevesti}}
* [[Sotho]]: {{t|st|fetola|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|traducir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|översätta}}
* [[Tahitian]]: [[ʻauvaha]], [[ʻiriti]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tercüme}}, {{t+|tr|terceme}}
* [[Turkmen]]: {{t|tk|terjime etmek|xs=Turkmen}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|перекладати|tr=perekladaty|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|ترجمہ کرنا|tr=tarjama karnā|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t|ur|انواد کرنا|tr=anuvād karnā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|dịch|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|tradutön}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|cyfieithu|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[oersette]]
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|איבערזעצן|tr=iberzetsn, ibersezn|sc=Hebr|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To change from one medium to another}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[traduïr]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|siirtää}}
* German: {{t+|de|übertragen}}
* [[Hiligaynon]]: [[badbad]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|trasferire}}, {{t|it|riversare}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|пренесува|tr=prenésuva}}
* [[Scots]]: [[pit ower]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|traducir}}, {{t-|es|trasladar}}
* Welsh: [[trosi]], [[troi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in physics}}
* French: {{t+|fr|translater}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|eltol}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[przesuwać]] po prostej
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|trasladar}},  {{t|pt|transladar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move or carry from one place to another}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|trasladar|xs=Galician}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{analysis}} {{context|in Euclidean spaces}} A [[set]] of points obtained ''by'' adding a ''given'' fixed [[vector]] to each point ''of'' a ''given'' set.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aaelnrstt}}
* [[alterants#English|alterants]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/tʁɑ̃s.lat/}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|translater||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|translater||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|translater||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|translater||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|translater||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}

----

==Latin==

===Participle===
{{la-part-form|trānslāte}}

# {{inflection of|translatus|trānslātus|voc|m|s|lang=la}}

[[zh-min-nan:translate]]
[[et:translate]]
[[cs:translate]]
[[el:translate]]
[[es:translate]]
[[fa:translate]]
[[fr:translate]]
[[ko:translate]]
[[io:translate]]
[[id:translate]]
[[it:translate]]
[[kn:translate]]
[[kk:translate]]
[[sw:translate]]
[[ku:translate]]
[[lo:translate]]
[[hu:translate]]
[[ml:translate]]
[[my:translate]]
[[ja:translate]]
[[pl:translate]]
[[pt:translate]]
[[simple:translate]]
[[fi:translate]]
[[sv:translate]]
[[ta:translate]]
[[te:translate]]
[[tr:translate]]
[[vi:translate]]
[[zh:translate]]