==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{multiple images
|direction = vertical
|image1 = Overzeas longpocket jeans.jpg
|image2 = Trousers.jpg
|caption2 = Trousers
}}

Attested since the 1610s, from the earlier form ''trouzes'' (attested since the 1580s), extended from ''trouse'' (1570s), with plural ending typical of things in pairs, from {{der|en|mga|triubhas|t=close-fitting shorts}}, of uncertain origin. The unexplained intrusive second ''-r-'' is perhaps due to the influence of {{m|en|drawers}}.<ref>{{R:Etymonline}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˈtɹaʊzəz/}}
* {{audio|en|En-uk-trousers.ogg|Audio (RP)}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/ˈtɹaʊzɚz/}}
* {{audio|en|En-us-trousers.ogg|Audio (GA)}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-trousers.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|aʊzəz|aʊzə(ɹ)z|s=2}}
* {{hyphenation|en|trou|sers}}

===Noun===
{{en-plural noun}}

# An [[article]] of [[clothing]] that covers the part of the body between the [[waist]] and the [[ankle]]s or [[knee]]s, and is [[divide]]d into a separate part for each [[leg]].
#: {{synonyms|en|breeches|britches|kecks|q3=all Britain, dialectal|pants|q4=chiefly US|strides|q5=Australia|Thesaurus:trousers}}
#: {{ux|en|The '''trousers''' need to be shortened.}}
#: {{ux|en|Why can women wear '''trousers''' when men can’t wear skirts?}}
#* {{RQ:Weyman Chippinge Borough|chapter=The Dissolution|page=3|passage=It was April 22, 1831, and a young man was walking down Whitehall in the direction of Parliament Street. He wore shepherd's plaid '''trousers''' and the swallow-tail coat of the day, with a figured muslin cravat wound about his wide-spread collar.}}
#* {{RQ:Wodehouse Jeeves in the Offing|chapter=XIX|passage=The effect the apparition had on me was to make me start violently, and we all know what happens when you start violently while holding a full cup of tea. The contents of mine flew through the air and came to rest on the '''trousers''' of Aubrey Upjohn, MA, moistening them to no little extent. Indeed, it would scarcely be distorting the facts to say that he was now not so much wearing '''trousers''' as wearing tea. [...] "I see you have not changed since you were with me at Malvern House," he said in an extremely nasty voice, dabbing at the '''trousers''' with a handkerchief. [...] "Frightfully sorry," I said. "Too late to be sorry now. A new pair of '''trousers''' ruined. It is doubtful if anything can remove the stain of tea from white flannel."}}

====Usage notes====
* ''Pants'' is about four times more common in the US than ''trousers'', based on use in [[COCA]].
* ''Trousers'' is about nine times more common in the UK than ''pants'', based on use in [[BNC]].
* ''Slacks'' about one tenth as common as ''pants'' in the US and ''trousers'' in the UK.

====Hyponyms====
* ''see'' [[Thesaurus:trousers]]

====Derived terms====
{{col3|en
|all mouth and no trousers
|all mouth and trousers
|bell-bottomed trousers
|bell-bottom trousers
|combat trousers
|drainpipe trousers
|harem trousers
|in short trousers
|long trousers
|overtrousers
|pair of trousers
|peg-top trousers
|put one's trousers on one leg at a time
|put on one's trousers one leg at a time
|saggy trousers
|short trousers
|stovepipe trousers
|trouserettes
|trousersed
|trousersless
|undertrousers
|wear the trousers
|whoops, there go my trousers
}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|trouser}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|kld|tharrawurra|bor=1}}
* {{desc|ga|treabhsar|bor=1}}
* {{desc|gmw-jdt|trāuzer|bor=1}} {{q|from the singular}}
* {{desc|mh|jedo̧ujij|bor=1}}
* {{desc|bor=1|cy|trowsus|trowser|trywsus}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|article of clothing for the lower body|pants}}

===References===
<references />

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eorrsstu|rousters}}

[[Category:en:Clothing]]