{{also|turk|Turk|Turk.|Türk}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l/en|Turke}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr|en}} {{term|Türk|lang=tr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/tɝk/|lang=en}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/tɜːk/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(ɹ)k|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A member of any of the numerous ethnic groups whose majority have lived a nomadic life on the vast Eurasian steppe, speaking Turkic languages.
# A person from [[Turkey]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[Muslim]].
#*{{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.12:
#*: Compare but our manners unto a '''Turke''' {{transterm|mahometan|Mahometan|lang=frm}}, or a Pagan, and we must needs yeeld unto them{{nb...}}.
#* Chillingworth
#*: It is no good reason for a man's religion that he was born and brought up in it; for then a '''Turk''' would have as much reason to be a Turk as a Christian to be a Christian.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} A bloodthirsty and savage person; [[vandal]]; [[barbarian]].<ref>{{R:OED2}}</ref> {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''1579''', John Lyly, ''Euphues'', [http://books.google.am/books?id=nc45AQAAMAAJ&dq=%22any%20Turke%22%20euphues&pg=PA42#v=onepage&q=%22any%20Turke%22%20euphues&f=false page 42]:
#*: Was neuer any Impe so wicked and barbarous, any '''Turke''' so vyle and brutishe.
#* '''1760''', Tobias George Smollett (editor), ''The Critical Review: Or, Annals of Literature, Volume 9'', [http://books.google.am/books?id=zr8PAAAAQAAJ&dq=%22at%20the%20fame%20time%20that%20a%20certain%20dignity%20of%20gait%2C%20and%20magnificence%22&pg=PA20#v=onepage&q=%22to%20call%20a%20man%20a%20Turk%22&f=false page 20]:
#*: A sort of primitive barbarity distinguishes the whole; no variety of character appears; and to call a man '''Turk''' is to say, that he is jealous, haughty, covetous, ignorant, and lascivious; at the same time that a certain dignity of gait, and magnificence of manners, gives him the appearance of generosity and true greatness of soul.
#* '''1987''', Anne Mozley, ''Essays from "Blackwood"'', page 21:
#*: A bad temper does seem often favourable to health. The man who has been a '''Turk''' all his life lives long to plague all about him.
#* '''1906''', {{w|George Meredith}}, ''One of our conquerors'', [http://books.google.am/books?id=JbZEAAAAYAAJ&q=%22a+creature+that+is+not+clean-washed+of+the+Turk+in+him%22&dq=%22a+creature+that+is+not+clean-washed+of+the+Turk+in+him%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=EIWcUru8OILpywPPvoCIDw&redir_esc=y page 292]:
#*: As much as the wilfully or naturally blunted, the intelligently honest have to learn by touch: only, their understandings cannot meanwhile be so wholly obtuse as our society's matron, acting to please the tastes of the civilized man—a creature that is not clean-washed of the '''Turk''' in him—barbarously exacts.
#* '''1928''', Luṫfī Levonian, ''Moslem mentality: a discussion of the presentation of Christianity to Moslems'', [http://www.google.am/search?tbm=bks&hl=en&q=%22call+a+man+turk%22+%22Moslem+mentality%22#hl=en&q=%22To+call+a+man+'Turk'+was+regarded+as%22&safe=off&tbm=bks page 85]:
#*: They regarded the very word '''Turk''' as synonymous with ignorance, impoliteness, and idiocy. To call a man ''''Turk'''' was regarded as a great dishonour to him.
# {{context|US|slang|lang=en}} A [[homosexual]], assuming the active role in [[anal sex]].
#* '''1938''', Aaron Joshua Rosanoff, ''Manual of psychiatry and mental hygiene'', [http://books.google.com/books?ei=Qk3aTJH1FM_s4gaA1pm6Aw&ct=result&id=1Iy0AAAAIAAJ&q=turk#search_anchor page 159]:
#*: The clannishness of homosexuals has led to the development of special slang expressions among them: ''Temperamental or queer'', a homosexual person. '''''Turk''', wolf, or jocker'', an active sodomist.
#* '''1993''', Jonathon Green, ''Slang down the ages: the historical development of slang'', [http://books.google.com/books?ei=mlDaTKzlL5eO4gb1msXrCA&ct=result&id=YvRZAAAAMAAJ&q=turk#search_anchor page 231]:
#*:{{...}}turd-packer, hitchhiker on the Hershey highway (fr. the US Hershey chocolate bars), shirt-lifter (Australian), wind-jammer, fart-catcher, dirt tamper, pillow-biter and '''Turk''' (fr. the alleged national propensity for sodomy).
#* '''2006''', Deborah Cameron, ''On language and sexual politics'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=vrVNmaHMlAcC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q=turk&f=false page 35]:
#*: One of the many underworld synonyms for an active pederast is '''''turk'''''.
# A member of a [[Mestee]] group in South Carolina.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|member of Turkic speaking ethnic group}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|թյուրք|tr=tʿyurkʿ|sc=Armn}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|突厥人|tr=Tūjué rén|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|turkinsukuinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|돌궐|tr=[[突]][[厥]], Dolgwol|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|투르크|tr=Tureukeu|sc=Kore}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|turc|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тюрк|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|turco|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Türk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Turkish national}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|turk|m}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تركي|m|tr=turkī}}, {{t+|ar|تركية|f|tr=turkiyya|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|թուրք|sc=Armn}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|turcu|m}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|türk}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|ту́рак|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|турча́нка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ту́рчин|m}}, {{t|bg|ту́рчинка|f}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|turc|m}}, {{t|ca|turca|f}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᎠᎬᎾ|tr=Agvna|sc=Cher}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|土耳其人|tr=Tǔ'ěrqí rén|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Turek|m}}, {{t+|cs|Turkyně|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|tyrk|c}}, {{t|da|tyrker|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Turk|m}}, {{t+|nl|Turkse|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|turko}} {{qualifier|man or woman}}, {{t|eo|turkino}} {{qualifier|woman}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|türklane}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|turkur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turkkilainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Turc|m}}, {{t+|fr|Turque|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|turco|m}}, {{t|gl|turca|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|თურქი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Türke|m}}, {{t+|de|Türkin|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Τούρκος|m|tr=Toúrkos}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|तुर्क|tr=turk}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|török}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|orang turki}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Turcach|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|turco|m}}, {{t+|it|turca|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|トルコ人|tr=Toruko-jin}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|түрік|sc=Cyrl}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|[[터키]] [[사람]]|tr=Teoki saram|sc=Hang}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|түрк|sc=Cyrl}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|turks|m}}, {{t|lv|turciete|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|turkas|m}}, {{t+|lt|turkė|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|Ту́рчин|m}}, {{t|mk|Ту́рчинка|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Turkagh|m}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|tyrker|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|tyrk|m}}, {{t+|nn|tyrkar|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ترک|tr=Tork}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|turco|m}}, {{t|pt|turca|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|turc|m}}, {{t+|ro|turcoaică|f}}, {{t+|ro|turcă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ту́рок|m}}, {{t+|ru|турча́нка|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Турчин|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|Туркиња|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|Turčin|m}}, {{t|sh|Turkinja|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Turek|m}}, {{t|sk|Turkyňa|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|Túrek|m}}, {{t|sl|Túrkinja|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|turco|m}}, {{t+|es|turca|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|turk|c}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|турк|sc=Cyrl}}
* Tatar: {{t+|tt|төрек|sc=Cyrl}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Türk}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|Türk}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|ту́рок|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|турча́нка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|turk}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|טערק|m|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|Muslim}}

{{trans-top|bloodthirsty and savage person}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|թուրք|tr=t’urk’|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|բարբարոս|tr=barbaros|sc=Armn}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|barbaari}}, {{t+|fi|raakalainen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bárbaro|m}}, {{t+|pt|selvagem|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|barbar|m}}, {{t+|ro|vandal|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|варвар|m|tr=várvar|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|вандал|m|tr=vandál|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|barbar}}, {{t|sh|varvarin}}, {{t|sh|vandal}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[Turk's head]]

===Anagrams===
* [[Kurt#English|Kurt]]

===References===
<references />

[[Category:en:Ethnicity]]
[[Category:en:Nationalities]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-Turk.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{rhymes|ʏrk|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-en|Turkje|f=Turkse}}

# a [[Turkish]] person, a [[#English|Turk]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|nl|Turkije}}

===Anagrams===
* [[rukt#Dutch|rukt]]

[[et:Turk]]
[[el:Turk]]
[[fr:Turk]]
[[io:Turk]]
[[id:Turk]]
[[it:Turk]]
[[hu:Turk]]
[[mg:Turk]]
[[nl:Turk]]
[[ja:Turk]]
[[km:Turk]]
[[pl:Turk]]
[[ro:Turk]]
[[ru:Turk]]
[[simple:Turk]]
[[fi:Turk]]
[[tr:Turk]]