==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|en|/twɛɹk/|[tw̥ɝk]}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/twɜːk/|[tw̥ɜːk]}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-twerk.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɜː(ɹ)k|s=1}}

===Etymology 1===
{{blend|en|twerp|jerk}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|slang|dated|US}} A puny or insignificant person, generally male; a [[twerp]].
#* {{quote-text|en|year=1930|author=[[w:Walter D. Edmonds|Walter Dumaux Edmonds]]|title=The Big Barn|page=207|passage="'...but when they load a pack onto you, what'll you do? A little '''twerk''' like you?'"}}
#* '''1932''', ''Forum and Century'' vol. 87 [http://books.google.com/books?ei=fz75RqyPOoWcpgKW19m0Dw]:
#*: "But even then the poor '''twerk''''s whiskers and little eyes looked kind of wistful as if the clothes had got him and was taking him somewhere..."
#* '''2003''', Bernard Kamoroff, ''Small Time Operator'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=9qlizjnOrVcC], {{ISBN|0917510186}}, page 19,
#*: You don't need those '''twerks''' who walk in off the street.

=====Usage notes=====
Found primarily in the 1930s-era works of [[w:Walter D. Edmonds|Walter Dumaux Edmonds]].

===Etymology 2===
{{wikipedia|Twerking}}
{{blend|en|twitch|jerk}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A fitful movement similar to a [[twitch]] or [[jerk]].
#* '''1898''', William Brigham, "Director's Report" in ''Occasional Papers of the Bernice Pauahi Museum'' vol. 1 no. 1, page 42:
#*: "Not so the Freycineti, who looked me over critically, elevated his head crest, and giving his tail an odd little '''twerk''', proceeded to hop deliberately up the limb like a sap-sucker..."
#* {{quote-text|en|year=1920|author=Lilian C. McNamara Garis|title=The Girl Scouts at Sea Crest: Or, The Wig Wag Rescue|page=86|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=ulYCAAAAYAAJ],|passage="I hardly realize it yet that you are my really truly coz," and she gave the girl's long, brown braids a familiar '''twerk'''.}}
#* {{quote-text|en|year=1950|author=Robert S. Close|title=Love Me Sailor|page=86|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=ySdBAAAAIAAJ],|passage=With a quick '''twerk''' at her shift, the girl lifted it to her rounded belly, and squatted nakedly on his lap.}}
# A [[dance]] involving [[sexual]] movements of the [[hip]]s and [[buttock]]s.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To twitch or jerk.
#* '''1985''', Criena Rohan, [http://books.google.com/books?id=ausNAAAAIAAJ Down by the Docks], page 151
#*: {{...}} in the language of the unsophisticated Port Melbourne suburbanite a bed was still something primarily intended for love-making – all the eyebrow-raising and moustache-'''twerking''' in Jo'burg couldn't alter that.
#* '''2005''', Florence Hall Abssi, [http://books.google.com/books?id=OyAkYG9lwD4C The Call], page 613
#*: "He '''twerked''' an eyebrow at his wife."
# To move the body in a sexually suggestive twisting or gyrating fashion.
#* '''2005''', Euftis Emery, [http://books.google.com/books?id=Ib1vEpY4TpwC Off the Chain], {{ISBN|1411630475}}, page 73,
#*: Gaea then stood up over me and turned so that her butt was facing me. She then had the nerve to start '''twerking'''.
#* '''2006''', Lawrence Christopher, [http://books.google.com/books?id=gOPfQEdpxkwC Ghettoway Weekend], {{ISBN|0971227845}}, page 96,
#*: "''Shortie'' really knows how to '''''twerk''''' it don't she?" Marcus boasted, while still recording.
#* '''2006''', [[w:Justin Timberlake|Justin Timberlake]] feat. [[w:Timbaland|Timbaland]], "[[w:SexyBack|SexyBack]]", ''[[w:FutureSex/LoveSounds|FutureSex/LoveSounds]]''
#*: Let me see what ya '''twerkin''' with
# To dance in a sexually suggestive manner, often involving rapid movement.
#* '''2013''', Nichole Smith, ABC News, [http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/headlines/2013/05/high-school-students-suspended-for-twerking High School Students Suspended for '''''Twerking''''']
#*: '''Twerking''', as it is known in the hip-hop community, is a hard-hitting, rump-shaking dance move that celebrities including Beyonce and Miley Cyrus have been known to bust out, but it has also gotten a group of San Diego high school students suspended.

=====Usage notes=====
In “sexually suggestive movements, especially dance”, particularly popularized since c. 2000 by US hip-hop.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|twerker}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to move the body in a suggestive manner}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|twerkata}}
* German: {{t|de|twerken}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|עִנְטֵז |tr='intéz}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tīonioni}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کچول}}, {{t+|fa|کاچول}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rebolar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|perrear}}, {{t+|es|sandunguear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Onomatopoeia, possibly coined by [[w:Roger Tory Peterson|Roger Tory Peterson]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An abrupt call, such as that made by the [[California quail]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1961|author=Roger Tory Peterson|title=A Field Guide to Western Birds|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=Pv2jn2dQCaEC|page=67|passage=Note of male on territory, a loud kurr or '''twerk'''.}}

[[Category:en:Animal sounds]]
[[Category:en:Dances]]