==English==

===Etymology===
Originally {{m|en|twite}}, an [[aphetism]] of {{inh|en|enm|atwite}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/twɪt/|[tʰw̥ɪt]}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-twit.wav ‎|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪt}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|twitt}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[reproach]], [[blame]]; to [[ridicule]] or [[tease]].
#* '''1590''', Shakespeare. ''History of Henry VI'', Part II, Act III, Scene I
#*: "Hath he not '''twit''' our sovereign lady here
#*: With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
#*: As if she had suborned some to swear
#*: False allegations to o'erthrow his state? " -
#* '''1955''', [[w:Rex Stout|Rex Stout]], "When a Man Murders...",<!--... in title--> in [[w:Three Witnesses (book)|''Three Witnesses'']], October 1994 [[w:Bantam Books|Bantam]] edition, {{ISBN|0553249592}}, page 106:
#*: Mr. Cramer, a policeman, came this morning and '''twitted''' me for having let a murderer hoodwink me.
#* '''2007''', Bernard Porter, "Did He Puff his Crimes to Please a Bloodthirsty Readership?", review of ''Stanley: The Impossible Life of Africa’s Greatest Explorer'' by Tim Jeal, ''London Review of Books'', 5 April, 29:7, p. 10
#*: H. R. Fox Bourne, secretary of the Aborigines' Protection Society – often '''twitted''' for being an ‘armchair critic’ – wrote in a review of one of Stanley's books {{...}}
#* {{rfdatek|en|Tillotson}}
#*: This these scoffers '''twitted''' the Christian with.
#* {{RQ:L'Estrange Fables}}
#*: Aesop minds Men of their Errors, without '''Twitting''' them for what is Amiss.
# {{lb|en|transitive|computing}} To [[ignore]] or [[killfile]] (a user on a [[bulletin board system]]).
#* '''1995''', "Michelle Jackson", ''Debutante/Question about Tori Shirts'' (on newsgroup ''rec.music.tori-amos'')
#*: However, on the Internet BBS's such as Quartz (now dead), Prism, Monsoon, Sunset, ect{{SIC}}, someone pulling that kind of crap is likely to get flamed quite fast and '''twitted''' before he/she can breathe.
#* '''2002''', "Chris Hoppman", ''FidoNet Feed Needed'' (on newsgroup ''alt.bbs'')
#*: And no, there is no "thought purification program" that can filter out some folks{{SIC}} obscene ideas that can be expressed w/o written vulgarities. That has to be simply "dealt" with, either by ignoring or '''twitting''' the individual that offends habitually.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To reproach, blame; to ridicule or tease}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|责备}}, {{t+|cmn|嘲笑}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiusoitella}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|sfotte}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|mustra}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|упрека́ть}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|edliw}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[reproach]], [[gibe]] or [[taunt]].
# A [[foolish]] or [[annoying]] person.
#* '''1988''', {{w|Larry Kramer}}, ''Just Say No''
#*: What do you mean, since when did I become such a radical fairy? Since I started knowing '''twits''' like you, you '''twit'''!
# A euphemism for "[[twat]]", a [[contemptible]] or [[stupid]] person.
#* '''2009''', {{w|David Cameron, former British Prime Minister}}
#*: "Too many twits make a twat." He was subsequently pilloried for not knowing that "twat" is actually very rude, and for not realising that one is a euphemism for the other.
#*: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2009/jul/29/david-cameron-apology-radio-twitter
# A person who [[twitter]]s, i.e. [[chatters]] [[inanely]] (''see usage notes'').

====Usage notes====
In the UK, the word "twit" for a person is usually used in a humorous or affectionate manner.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Thesaurus:fool]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|twitling}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a reproach, gibe or taunt}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|упрёк|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|edliw|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a foolish or annoying person}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|笨蛋}}, {{t+|cmn|傻瓜}}, {{t+|cmn|讨厌鬼}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ääliö}}, {{t+|fi|typerys}}
* French: {{qualifier|France, colloquial}} {{t+|fr|andouille|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|abruti|m}}, {{t+|fr|couillon|m}}, {{qualifier|Quebec, colloquial}} {{t+|fr|twit|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тупи́ца|m}}, {{t+|ru|дурачок|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|gilí|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ittw|Witt}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA|twitt}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{lb|fr|Quebec|colloquial}} [[twit#en|twit]] {{gloss|foolish person}}
# a [[tweet]] {{gloss|a message on [[Twitter]]}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Twitter}} {{l|fr|tweet}}

====Related terms====
* {{sense|Twitter}} {{l|fr|twitter}}

[[Category:fr:Twitter]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# [[tweet]] (message on Twitter)