{{also|quà|quá|quạ|quả|qu'à}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|qua||in the capacity of}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kwɑː/|/kweɪ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪ|lang=en}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# As [a/an]; in the [[capacity]] of.
#* '''1954''': [[w:Gilbert Ryle|Gilbert Ryle]], ''Dilemmas: The Tarner Lectures, 1953'', <span style="font-variant:small-caps">dilemma vii: Perception</span>, page 99 (The Syndics of the Cambridge University Press)
#*: As anatomy, physiology and, later, psychology have developed into more or less well-organized sciences, they have necessarily and rightly come to incorporate the study of, among other things, the structures, mechanisms, and functionings of animal and human bodies '''''qua''''' percipient.
#* '''1962''': [[w:Norman Malcolm|Norman Malcolm]]; ''Dreaming''; chapter nine: “Judgments in Sleep”, page 39<sup>{1}</sup>; chapter twelve: “The Concept of Dreaming”, page 68<sup>{2}</sup> (1977 paperback reprint; Routledge & Kegan Paul; ISBN 0‒7100‒3836‒4 (c), 0‒7100‒8434‒X (p))
#*: <sup>{1}</sup> For sleep '''''qua''''' sleep has no experiential content: it cannot turn out, as remarked before, that a man was not asleep because he was ''not'' having some experience or other.
#*: <sup>{2}</sup> I am denying that a dream '''''qua''''' dream is a seeming, appearance or ‘semblance of reality’.
#* '''2003''': Roy Porter, ''Flesh in the Age of Reason'', page 458 (Penguin, 2004)
#*: It was '''qua''' poet that Byron resurrected the exploded and discarded immortal Christian soul by bodying it forth through the notion of soul conceived as poetic imagination.
#* '''2005''': Ulfelder, Jay.Collective Action and the Breakdown of Authoritarian Regimes. International Political Science Review, 26(3), p318. Retrieved 1615 240810 from http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy1.library.usyd.edu.au/stable/pdfplus/30039035.pdf?acceptTC=true.
#*: "In essence, military regimes are autocracies in which the military '''''qua''''' organization performs many of the functions performed by the ruling party in single-party regimes."
#* '''2009''': Ken Levy, [http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1404387 ''Killing, Letting Die, and the Case for Mildly Punishing Bad Samaritanism''], Georgia Law Review, p. 24.
#*: Blame '''''qua''''' attitude is the feeling or belief that an individual has committed a wrongdoing, usually a wrongful action and/or harm, and can be reasonably expected not to have committed this wrongdoing. Blame qua practice is the public expression of this attitude – usually by means of censure (written or verbal criticism) or punishment. Generally, the morally worse the wrongdoing, the more severe the censure/punishment.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in the capacity of}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|qua}}, {{t|da|i egenskab af}}, {{t|da|eks. han førte ordet qua formand}}
* Dutch: [[qua#Dutch|qua]], {{t|nl|als zodanig}}, {{t|nl|wat betreft}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|en tant que}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ως|sc=Grek}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|i egenskap av}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# in the [[capacity]] of

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|QAU}}

----

==Classical Nahuatl==

===Verb===
{{head|nci|verb}}

# {{alternative spelling of|lang=nci|cua}}

----

==Danish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kvaː/|[kʰvæːˀ]|lang=da}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|da|conjunction}}

# [[as]], [[qua#English|qua]] {{gloss|in the capacity of}}
# {{qualifier|as a preposition}} [[by virtue of]] {{gloss|because of}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aː|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-qua.ogg|audio|lang=nl}}

===Adverb===
{{nl-adv}}

# [[regarding]], [[concerning]], [[in terms of]]
#: {{ux|nl|'''Qua''' gezondheid ben ik helemaal in orde.|'''In terms of''' health, I'm perfectly fine.}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nl|wat ... betreft}}

----

==Ido==

===Etymology===
{{bor|io|fr|qui}}, {{m|fr|que}}, {{bor|io|it|che|notext=1}}, {{bor|io|es|que|notext=1}}, ultimately from {{der|io|la|quī}} / {{m|la|quid}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kwa/|lang=io}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|io|pronoun|plural|qui}}

# {{lb|io|relative pronoun}} [[which]]
#: {{ux|io|Esis tre jentila homo '''qua''' helpis ni.|It was a nice man '''who''' helped us.|inline=1}}
# {{lb|io|interrogative pronoun}} [[who]]
#: {{ux|io|'''Qua''' esas ita kerlo?|'''Who''' is that guy?|inline=1}} {{qualifier|direct question}}
#: {{ux|io|Me ne konocas '''qua''' ita esas.|I don't know '''who''' that is.|inline=1}} {{qualifier|indirect question}}

===Determiner===
{{head|io|determiner}}

# {{lb|io|interrogative determiner}} [[what]]
#: {{ux|io|'''Qua''' kamizo vu portos?|'''What''' shirt are you going to wear?|inline=1}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|io|quo||what {{gloss|thing}}}}
* {{l|io|qui||who {{gloss|plural}}}}
* {{l|io|pro quo||why}}

===See also===
* {{l|io|ube||where}}
* {{l|io|kande||when}}
* {{l|io|quala||what kind of}}
** {{l|io|quale||how}}
* {{l|io|quanta||how much}}
** {{l|io|quanto||quantity}}

[[Category:Ido interrogative pronouns]]
[[Category:Ido relative pronouns]]
[[Category:Ido interrogative determiners]]
[[Category:Ido correlatives]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|it|VL.||*(ec)cu hac}}, from {{inh|it|la|eccum}} + {{m|la|hac}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kwa/|lang=it}}
* {{audio|It-qua.ogg|Audio|lang=it}}
* {{rhymes|a|lang=it}}

===Adverb===
{{it-adv}}

# [[here]] (''relatively close to the speaker'') <!--can't remember whether this is true, or whether this applies to "qui" instead-->

====See also====
* {{l|it|là}}
* {{l|it|lì}}
* {{l|it|qui}}

----

==Latin==

===Etymology 1===
Adverb declined from {{m|la|quī}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{la-IPA}}

====Adverb====
{{la-adv||quā|-}}

# On [[which]] side, at or in [[which]] place, in [[what]] direction, [[where]], by what way (qua...ea...)
# [[as]]; in the capacity or character of
# In [[so]] far as
#: ''ens qua ens'' ("being as being")
# In what way, [[how]], by what method; to what degree or extent

===Etymology 2===
Inflection of {{m|la|quī||who, which}}.

====Pronoun====
{{la-pronoun-form|quā}}

# {{inflection of|quī||abl|f|s|lang=la}}

===Etymology 3===
Inflection of {{m|la|quis||who?, what?}}.

====Pronoun====
{{la-pronoun-form|quā}}

# {{inflection of|quis||abl|f|s|lang=la}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Elementary Lewis}}
* {{R:Gaffiot}}
* {{R:M&A}}

[[Category:Latin interrogative adverbs]]

----

==Min Nan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[kuã˥˥]|lang=nan}}

===Etymology===
The suffix has been used since around the 17th and 18th century. It is most likely an early attempt at Romanizing the Min Nan for [[官]] (POJ: [[koaⁿ]]) ''official''. Since "[[hong]]" ([[行]]) merchants were technically officials of the lowest (9th) rank, the suffix "qua" was added to their names in honour of their positions in the [[w:Qing Dynasty|Qing]] government.

===Suffix===
{{head|nan|suffix|poj|koaⁿ|traditional and simplified|官}}

# [[official]]

====Usage notes====
* Formerly added to names of [[hong]] merchants (i.e. "''Powqua,''" "''Chinqua''").

====See also====
* (''Mandarin'') [[官]] ([[guān]])

----

==Romansch==

===Adverb===
{{head|rm|adverb}}

# [[here]]

----

==Vietnamese==

===Etymology===
{{vi-etym-sino|過|pass}}

===Pronunciation===
{{vi-IPA}}

===Preposition===
{{head|vi|preposition}}

# [[through]], [[across]], [[by]]

===Adjective===
{{vi-adj}}

# [[last#Adjective|last]]

===Verb===
{{vi-verb}}

# {{lb|vi|intransitive}} To be [[gone]].
# {{lb|vi|intransitive}} To [[cross#Verb|cross]].

===Derived terms===
* {{l|vi|băng qua}}
* {{l|vi|đi qua}}

[[az:qua]]
[[ca:qua]]
[[da:qua]]
[[de:qua]]
[[et:qua]]
[[el:qua]]
[[es:qua]]
[[fr:qua]]
[[ko:qua]]
[[io:qua]]
[[ie:qua]]
[[it:qua]]
[[ku:qua]]
[[la:qua]]
[[li:qua]]
[[hu:qua]]
[[mg:qua]]
[[fj:qua]]
[[nl:qua]]
[[pl:qua]]
[[pt:qua]]
[[ru:qua]]
[[simple:qua]]
[[fi:qua]]
[[ta:qua]]
[[th:qua]]
[[chr:qua]]
[[tr:qua]]
[[vi:qua]]
[[zh:qua]]