{{also|Quadrate}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|quadrat||obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|quadrat}}, from {{der|en|fro|quadrat|t=a square}}, from {{der|en|la|quadrātus|t=square}}, past participle of {{m|la|quadrō|t=to make four-cornered, square, put in order, intransitive be square}}, from {{m|la|quadra|t=a square}}, later {{m|la|quadrus|t=square}}, from {{m|la|quattuor|t=four}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{q|adjective|noun}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkwɒd.ɹət/|/ˈkwɒdˌɹeɪt/}}
*** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-quadrate1.wav|Audio (UK)}}
** {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkwɑd.ɹət/|/ˈkwɑdˌɹeɪt/}}
* {{q|verb}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/kwɒdˈɹeɪt/}}
*** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-quadrate2.wav|Audio (UK)}}
** {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/kwɑdˈɹeɪt/}}
** {{rhymes|en|eɪt}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having four equal sides, the opposite sides parallel, and four right angles; [[square]].
#* '''1563''', {{w|John Foxe}}, ''Acts and Monuments''
#*: Figures, some round, some triangle, some '''quadrate'''.
# Produced by multiplying a number by itself; [[square]].
#* '''1646-72''', [[w:Sir Thomas Browne|Sir Thomas Browne]], ''Pseudodoxia Epidemica'', book 4, ch. 12:
#*: The number of Ten hath been as highly extolled, as containing even, odd, long, plain, '''quadrate''' and cubical numbers.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} Square; even; balanced; equal; exact.
#* '''1644''', {{w|James Howell}}, ''letter to Sir Ed. Sa. Knight''
#*: a '''quadrat''', solid, wise man
# {{lb|en|archaic}} Squared; suited; correspondent.
#* {{RQ:Harvey MA}}
#*: a generical description '''quadrate''' to both

====Related terms====
{{col3|en
|quadratic
|quadration
|quadrature
}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|geometry}} A [[plane]] [[surface]] with four equal sides and four right angles; a [[square]]; hence, figuratively, anything having the outline of a square.
#* '''1667''', [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''Paradise Lost'', Book VI:
#*: At which command, the powers militant
#*: That stood for heaven, in mighty '''quadrate''' joined.
# {{lb|en|astrology}} An aspect of the [[heavenly body|heavenly bodies]] in which they are distant from each other 90°, or the quarter of a circle; [[quartile]].
# {{lb|en|anatomy}} The [[quadrate bone]].

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|archaic|transitive}} To [[adjust]] (a [[gun]]) on its [[carriage]].
# {{lb|en|archaic|transitive}} To [[train]] (a [[gun]]) for [[horizontal]] [[fire|firing]].
# {{lb|en|archaic|ambitransitive}} To [[square]].
#: '''''quadrating''' the circle''
# {{lb|en|archaic|transitive}} To square; to agree; to suit; to correspond (with).
#: ''not '''quadrating''' with American ideas of right, justice and reason''
#* {{RQ:Burke Revolution in France|passage=The objections of these speculatists, if its forces do not '''quadrate''' with their theories, are as valid against such an old and beneficent government as against the most violent tyranny or the greenest usurpation.}}
#* {{RQ:Fielding Tom Jones}}
#*: In short I am resolved, from this instance, never to give way to the weakness of human nature more, nor to think anything virtue which doth not exactly '''quadrate''' with the unerring rule of right.

===Further reading===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

{{Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aadeqrtu|arquated}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:en:Four]]

----

==Italian==

===Pronunciation===
{{it-pr|quadràte}}

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form}}

# {{adj form of|it|quadrato||f|p}}

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
From {{m|la|quadrō|t=make square}}, from {{m|la|quadrus|t=square, four-sided}}, from {{m|la|quattuor|t=four}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|quadrātē}}

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|quadrātē|-}}

# [[fourfold]], [[four]] [[time]]s

====Related terms====
{{col3|la
|quadrātārius
|quadrātiō
|quadrātor
|quadrātus
|quadrō
|quadrus
}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Gaffiot}}