{{was wotd|2006|April|11}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Attested since the mid 16th century, of uncertain origin. Suggestions include connection with Irish, Gaelic ''cauch'' (whence Scots ''quaich'', ''queff'')  "cup". The noun is derived from the verb, since the later 16th century.

===Pronunciation===
*British {{SAMPA|/kwQf/}}
*(US) {{SAMPA|/kwOf/}}
*{{IPA|/'kwɒf/}}
*{{audio|en-us-quaff.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æf|-æf]]

===Synonyms===
*[[chug]]
*[[gulp]]
*[[swig]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[drink]] or [[imbibe]], especially with [[vigour]]. 
# In wine terminology, to sip a wine for itself (as oppose [[wikipedia:Wine_and_food_matching|food pairing]])

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1500s=1594|
1600s=1667|
1800s=1845 1852}}
*'''1594''' — [[Shakespeare]], ''[[s:The Taming of the Shrew|The Taming of the Shrew]] i 2''
*:Please ye we may contrive this afternoon, / And '''quaff''' carouses to our mistress' health
*'''1667''' — [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''[[s:Paradise Lost|Paradise Lost]] Book V''
*:They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet
*:'''Quaff''' immortality and joy...
*'''1845''' — [[w:Edgar Allan Poe|Edgar Allan Poe]], ''[[s:The Raven (Poe)|The Raven]]''
*:'''Quaff''', oh '''quaff''' this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!
*'''1852''' — [[w:Nathaniel Hawthorne|Nathaniel Hawthorne]], ''[[s:Dr. Heidegger's Experiment|Dr. Heidegger's Experiment]]''
*:Even while '''quaffing''' the third draught of the Fountain of Youth, they were almost awed by the expression of his mysterious visage.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[يتجرع]]
*French: [[boire cul sec]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[sbevazzare]]
*Portuguese: [[libar]]
*Spanish: [[libar]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of quaffing, a deep draught.

[[fa:quaff]]
[[fr:quaff]]
[[io:quaff]]
[[it:quaff]]
[[ru:quaff]]
[[te:quaff]]
[[vi:quaff]]
[[zh:quaff]]