==English==
{{was wotd|2009|April|21}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|Quarantine|quarentine|quarantin|quaranteen|quarantain|quarantaine|quarrentine|quarantene|quarentene|quarentyne|querentyne||obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|ML.|quarentena}} and {{m|la|quarentīna||40-day [[period]], [[Lent]]}} via {{inh|en|enm|quarentine}}, {{der|en|nrf|quarenteine}}, {{der|en|fr|quarenteine}}, and {{der|en|it|quarantina}}, via proposed {{der|en|LL.|*quaranta}} + {{m|la|-ēna||''[[form]]ing [[distributive]] [[adjective]]s''}}, from {{der|en|la|quadrāgintā||[[four]] [[ten]]s, 40}}. {{doublet|en|carene|quadragene}}. In reference to French politics, a [[calque]] of {{der|en|fr|quarantaine}} after edicts of {{w|Louis IX of France|Louis IX}} and  {{m|fr|quarantaine}} {{m|fr|du}} {{m|fr|roi|Roi}} after a 1704 edict by {{w|Louis XIV}}. In reference to a severance of political relations, originally and chiefly an American [[euphemism]] for "[[blockade]]" necessary to keep the action from becoming an [[act of war]] under [[international law]], chiefly popularized by the {{w|Franklin Delano Roosevelt|Roosevelt}} administration's 1937 approach to the [[Axis powers]] and the {{w|John Fitzgerald Kennedy|Kennedy}} administration's 1962 approach to [[Cuba]] during the {{w|Cuban Missile Crisis|missile crisis}} there.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkwɔɹ.ən.tin/|/ˈkɔɹ.ən.tin/}}
* {{a|NYC}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkwɑɹ.ən.tin/}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˈkwɒɹ.ən.tiːn/|/ˈkwɒrn̩tiːn/|/ˈkwɒɹ.ən.taɪn/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-quarantine.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-quarantine.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[period]] of 40 [[day]]s, [[particularly]]
#* '''1722''', {{w|Daniel Defoe}}, ''{{w|Journal of the Plague Year}}'', p. 235:
#*: Now the Question seems to [[lie|lye]] thus, where lay the Seeds of the Infection all this while? How came it to stop so long, and not stop any longer? Either the Distemper did not come immediately by Contagion from Body to Body, or if it did, then a Body may be capable to continue infected, without the Disease discovering itself, many Days, nay Weeks together, even not a '''Quarantine''' of Days only, but Soixantine, not only 40 Days but 60 Days or longer.
## {{lb|en|historical|_|law}} The 40-[[day]] [[period]] during which a [[widow]] [[is]] [[entitled]] to [[remain]] in [[her]] [[deceased]] [[husband]]'s [[home]] while [[any]] [[dower]] [[is]] [[collect]]ed and [[return]]ed.
##* {{c.|1523}} John Rastell, ''Exposiciones Terminorum Legum Anglorum'', fol. 4v:
##*: '''Querentyne''' is where a man [[dies|dyeth]] [[seized|seisyd]] of a [[manor|maner]] place and other [[lands|landis]] [[whereof|where of]] the [[wife|wyfe]] ought to be [[endowed|indowed]], [[then|than]] the woman shall hold the [[manor|maner]] place by [[XL|.xl.]] days within which [[time|tyme]] her [[dower]] [[shall|shal]][[be]] to her [[assigned|assyned]].
## {{lb|en|historical}} The 40-[[day]] [[period]] of [[isolation]] [[required]] after {{w|1448}} at [[Venice]]'s [[lazaret]] to [[avoid]] [[renew]]ed [[outbreak]]s of the [[bubonic plague]] and [[identical]] [[policies]] in [[other]] [[location]]s.
## {{lb|en|historical}} A 40-[[day]] [[period]] [[formerly]] [[impose]]d by the [[French]] [[king]] upon [[warring]] [[noble]]s during which [[they]] were [[forbidden]] from [[exact]]ing [[revenge]] or [[continuing]] to [[fight]].
##* '''1728''', Ephraim Chambers, ''{{w|Cyclopædia, or an Universal Dictionary of Arts and Sciences|Cyclopaedia}}'', "'''Quarantaine'''":
##*: '''Quarantain''' of the King, is a Truce of forty Days appointed by {{w|Louis IX of France|S. Louis}}; during which it was expressly forbid to take any Revenge of the Relation or Friends of People.
##* '''1818''', Alexander Ranken, ''The History of France'', Vol. IV, p. 233:
##*: Forty days, called the King's '''quarantain''', were allowed the friends or relations of a principal in a private war to grant or find security.
# A [[period]], [[instance]], or [[state]] of [[isolation]] from the [[general public]] or from [[native]] [[livestock]] and [[flora]] [[enact]]ed to [[prevent]] the [[spread]] of [[any]] [[contagious]] [[disease]].
#* '''1649''', ''Moderate Intelligencer'', No. 236, p. 2279:
#*: From [[Toulon]]... Our [[galleys|Gallyes]] which were upon the point of finishing their '''Quarantaine''', and entering into this Port, have been hindred from it by [[the|th']][[arrival]] of three others that were out [[a-|a]] roaming.
#* '''1663 Nov. 26''', {{w|Samuel Pepys}}, [[Pepys' Diary|Diary]], Vol. IV, p. 399:
#*: Making of all ships coming from thence... to perform their '''Quarantine''' (for 30 days as Sir Richard Browne expressed it... contrary to the import of the word; though in the general acceptation, it signifies now the thing, not the time spent in doing it).
#* '''1796''', Edward Darwin, ''Zoonomia'', Vol. II, p. 265:
#*: This dreadful malady might be annihilated by making all the dogs in Great Britain perform a kind of '''quarantine''', by shutting them up for a certain number of weeks.
#* '''1831''', {{w|Letitia Elizabeth Landon}}, ''Romance and Reality'', pp. 137–138
#*: The lady stared; but a single question elicited the fatal truth—the vessel was under '''quarantine''', and once on board there was no quitting it.
#* '''1855''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''{{w|Little Dorrit}}'', p. 12:
#*: ‘... these people are always howling. Never happy otherwise... the French people. They’re always at it. As to [[Marseilles]], we know what [[Marseilles]] is. It sent {{w|La Marseillaise|the most insurrectionary tune}} into the world that was ever composed. It couldn’t exist without [[aller#French|allonging]] and [[marcher#French|marshonging]] to something or other—victory or death, or blazes, or something.’<br>‘[[aller#French|Allong]] and [[marcher#French|marshong]], indeed. It would be more creditable to you, I think, to let other people [[aller#French|allong]] and [[marcher#French|marshong]] about their lawful business, instead of shutting ‘em up in '''quarantine'''!’<br>‘Tiresome enough,’ said the other.
#* '''1859''', John Mounteney Jephson & al., ''Narrative of a Walking Tour in Brittany'', p. 77:
#*: The [[leper]]s often sought a voluntary death as the only escape from their perpetual '''quarantine'''.
#* ''''1922''', ''Encyclopaedia Britannica'', 12th ed., Vol. XXX, p. 925:
#*: Formerly great stress was laid on the value of '''quarantine'''; all plant imports were grown in a '''quarantine''' ground under the supervision of a Government botanist until it was certain that they had no disease.
#* {{quote-web|url=https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/3900962|en|date=20 March 2020|work={{w|Taiwan News}}|title=Next 14 Days Are Critical for Taiwan's Wuhan Virus Battle: Tsai|author=Keoni Everington|passage=2. {{w|Tsai Ing-wen|Tsai}} called on the public not to incite hatred or blame others for the epidemic. She then offered thanks to everyone who has dutifully followed home '''quarantine''' and self-health management protocols.}}
#: {{ux|en|The tourists were put in '''quarantine''' to ensure none of them would be able to spread the plague.}}
# {{lb|en|figurative}} A [[similar]] [[period]], [[instance]], or [[state]] of [[rigidly]] [[enforced]] or [[self-]][[enforced]] [[detention]] or [[isolation]].
#* '''1667''', John Denham, ''The Second Advice to a Painter'', pp. 13–14:
#*: Now treating ''{{w|Edward Montagu, 1st Earl of Sandwich|Sandwich}}'' seems the fittest choice<br>For ''Spain'', there to condole and to [[rejoice|rejoyce]]:<br>He meets the ''French'', but to avoid all harms,<br>Slips into ''[[Groine]]'', Embassies bears no Arms.<br>There let him languish a long '''Quarrentine''',<br>And [[never|ne're]] to ''England'' come, till he be clean.
#* '''1816 Nov. 27''', {{w|Lord Byron}}, Letter:   
#*: What I wish to put under '''Quarantine''' are ''family events''—& all allusion thereto past—present—or to come.
# A [[place]] where [[such]] [[isolation]] is [[enforced]], a [[lazaret]].
#* '''1806 April''', {{w|Reginald Heber}}, Journal:
#*: They bring wood, millet, rye, barley, and a little wheat to the '''quarantine''' to barter with the [[Cossak]]s for salt.
# {{lb|en|politics|figurative}} A [[blockade]] of [[trade]], [[suspension]] of [[diplomatic relations]], or [[other]] [[action]] [[whereby]] [[one]] [[country]] [[seek]]s to [[isolate]] [[another]].
#* '''1891 Dec. 16''', ''{{w|New York Times}}'', p. 1:
#*: When a [[great power]] establishes diplomatic '''quarantine''' against them it is well not to go too far on a course on which they appear to be embarking with a light heart.
#* '''1937 Oct. 6''', ''{{w|New York Herald Tribune}}'', p. 1:
#*: {{w|Franklin Delano Roosevelt|President Roosevelt}} today challenged the effectiveness of a policy of [[neutrality]] in keeping the [[United States]] at peace and advocated instead a collective ‘'''quarantine'''’ of aggressor nations.
#* '''1962 Oct. 22''', {{w|John Fitzgerald Kennedy}}, [https://www.jfklibrary.org/learn/about-jfk/historic-speeches/address-during-the-cuban-missile-crisis Address to the American People]: 
#*: To halt {{w|Cuban Missile Crisis|this offensive buildup}}, a strict '''quarantine''' on all offensive military equipment under shipment to [[Cuba]] is being initiated. All ships of any kind bound for [[Cuba]] from whatever nation or port will, if found to contain cargoes of offensive weapons, be turned back. This '''quarantine''' will be extended, if needed, to other types of cargo and carries.
# {{lb|en|computing|figurative}} An isolation of one program, drive, computer, etc. from the rest of a computer network to limit the damage from a [[bug]], [[computer virus]], etc..
#* '''1988 Mar. 21''', ''InfoWorld'':
#*: Also included is Canary, a ‘'''quarantine'''’ program for use as a sample to test for a virus by pairing it with new or suspect programs.
#* '''1989 Feb. 2''', ''American Banker'', p. 8:
#*: At least one expert says... that a '''quarantine''' can be futile if the software is infected with a time-activated virus.
# {{lb|en|computing|figurative}} The program, drive, computer, etc. thus isolated.
#* '''2004 Dec.''', ''.Net'', No. 131, p. 71:
#*: If they click on the link then they're added to your approved senders list and their message is moved to your inbox; if they don't, the message stays in '''quarantine'''.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|place for quarantine}} {{l|en|lazaret}}, {{l|en|lazaretto}}, {{l|en|lazar house}} {{q|fig.}}

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|place for quarantine}} {{l|en|leprosarium}}, {{l|en|lazar house}} {{q|leprosy}}

====Derived terms====
{{derived terms|lang=en
|free quarantine
|quarantine-breaking
|quarantine flag
|quarantine ground 
|quarantine kennel 
|quarantine officer 
|quarantine station 
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|40-day period}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|quadragēna}}, {{t+|la|quarentena}}, {{m|la|quarentīna}}, {{m|la|carēna}} {{q|fasting}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A period, instance, or state of isolation to prevent the spread of disease}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|kwarantyn}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|karantinë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حَجْر صِحِّيّ|m}}, {{t|ar|كَرَنْتِينَة|f}}
*: Hijazi Arabic: {{t|acw|حَجِر|m|tr=ḥajir}}, {{t|acw|حَجر صِحِّي|m|tr=ḥajir ṣiḥḥi}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կարանտին}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|karantin}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|каранты́н|m}}, {{t|be|каранці́н|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|каранти́на|f}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|quarantena|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|隔離|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|隔离|tr=gélí|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|檢疫}}, {{t+|cmn|检疫|tr=jiǎnyì}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|enysekter|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|karanténa|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|karantæne|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|quarantaine|f}} {{q|action}}, {{t+|nl|quarantaineperiode|f}} {{q|duration}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kvaranteno}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|karantiin}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|sóttverja |f}}, {{t|fo|sóttarhald|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karanteeni}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quarantaine|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|corentena|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|კარანტინი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Quarantäne|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απομόνωση|f}}, {{t+|el|καραντίνα|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הֶסְגֵּר|m|tr=hesger}}, {{t|he|קָרַנְטִינָה|f|tr=qarantina}}, {{t|he|בידוד|m}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|क्वारंटीन}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|karantén}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sóttkví|f}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|quaranteno}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|karantina}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|coraintín}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|quarantena}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|検疫|tr=けんえき, ken'eki}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|карантин}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|검역}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|карантин}}
* Latin: {{t|la|quarantanna|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|karantīna|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|karantinas|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|карантин|m}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|kuarantin}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|taratahi}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|карантин}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|karantene}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|قرنطینه|tr=qarantine}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kwarantanna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quarentena|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|carantină|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|каранти́н|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|каранте́на|f}}, {{t|sh|карантин|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|karanténa|f}}, {{t|sh|karantin|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|karanténa|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|karantena|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cuarentena}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|karantän|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|kuwarentenas}}, {{t|tl|pahiwalay}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|карантин}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|ஒடுக்கம்}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|การกักกัน}}, {{t+|th|การกักตัว}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|karantina}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|karantin}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|каранти́н|m}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|قرنطینہ|tr=qarantína}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|karantin}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|phong tỏa kiểm dịch}}, {{t|vi|phong tỏa dịch bệnh}} {{q|general action}}; {{t|vi|thời gian cách ly}}, {{t|vi|thời gian kiểm dịch}} {{q|general period}}; {{t+|vi|cách ly|alt=sự cách ly}}, {{t|vi|kiểm dịch|alt=sự kiểm dịch}} {{q|for ships}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top-also|A place used for quarantining|lazaret}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|karanténa|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|karantæne|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|quarantaine|f}}, {{qualifier|if a port}} {{t|nl|quarantainehaven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karanteeni}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λοιμοκαθαρτήριο|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|karantén}}, {{t+|hu|vesztegzár}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kwarantanna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quarentena|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|изоля́тор|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|khu cách ly}}, {{t|vi|khu kiểm dịch}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(fig.) any rigorously enforced isolation}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|karanténa|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|karantæne|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|quarantaine|f}}, {{t+|nl|afzondering|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karanteeni}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quarantaine|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απομόνωση|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kwarantanna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quarentena|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|каранти́н|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|karantän}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|cách ly|alt=sự cách ly}}, {{t|vi|kiểm dịch|alt=sự kiểm dịch}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|storage for suspected files}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karanteeni}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kwarantanna|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quarentena|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|kvaranteno}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|quarantaine|f}}
* German: {{t+check|de|Quarantäne|f}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|quarantena}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{qualifier|all senses}} {{t+check|it|quarantena|f}}
* Mandarin: {{t+check|cmn|檢疫|sc=Hani}}, {{t+check|cmn|检疫|tr=jiǎnyì|sc=Hani}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|cuarentena|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[place]] into [[isolation]] to [[prevent]] the [[spread]] of [[any]] [[contagious]] [[disease]].
#* '''1803 Feb. 17''', ''Maryland Gazette'', Letter:
#*: We... sent our boat on board a French [[man of war]] lying in the bay, with a letter for our [[consul]]; captain Murray not wishing to have any communication with the shore, for fear of being '''quarantined''' at the next port he went to.
#* '''1866 July 26''', ''The Times'', p. 10:
#*: On sanitary grounds [[Morocco]] could certainly show better cause for placing a quarantine on [[Spain]] than Spain for '''quarantining''' Morocco.
#: {{ux|en|[[Venice]] began '''quarantining''' incoming ships for 40 days in 1448 to prevent further outbreaks of [[bubonic plague]].}}
# {{lb|en|figurative|transitive}} {{synonym of|en|isolate}} ''[[more]] [[generally]]''.
#* '''1804 Dec. 20''', {{w|Washington Irving}}, Letter:
#*: ...where I should be detained, '''Quarantined''', [[smoked|smoaked]] & [[vinegared|vinegard]]...
#* '''1988 Jan. 31''', ''{{w|Los Angeles Times}}'', p. 1:
#*: No computer system or even individual PC is safe from a virus unless it is isolated—'''quarantined''', in effect—from all others.
#: {{ux|en|{{w|John Fitzgerald Kennedy|J.F.K.}} "'''quarantined'''" [[Cuba]] rather than blockading it to avoid needless escalation of the conflict.}} 
# {{lb|en|figurative|transitive}} {{synonym of|en|restrict}}.
#* '''1850 July 27''', ''Chamber's Edinburgh Journal'', p. 49:
#*: Did any moral taint hang about me that '''quarantined''' my entrance into its circle?
#* {{c.|1912}} E.H. Grubb & al., ''Potato'', p. 479:
#*: The parliament of [[Ireland|the island]]... '''quarantined''' Great Britain against sending any potatoes into the island.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[impose]] a [[#Noun|quarantine]], to [[establish]] [[#Noun|quarantine]] [[regulation]]s.
#* '''1879 July 22''', ''The Times'', p. 12:
#*: It has just been announced that [[Norfolk]], [[Va.]], and [[Holly Springs]], [[Miss.]], have '''quarantined''' against [[Memphis]].
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[enter]] or [[stay]] in [[#Noun|quarantine]], [[particularly]] to [[self-quarantine]] to [[avoid]] an [[epidemic]] [[disease]].
#* '''1928 Aug. 7''', ''Daily News'', p. 7:
#*: The ''Mauretania''... is expected to ‘'''quarantine'''’ at [[New York]] at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
#* '''1995 May 12''', ''Daily Oklahoman'':
#*: She brought her dog home, and that's a big step. Dogs have to '''quarantine''' for six months in England.
#* '''2020 April 10''', ''{{w|The Guardian}}'':
#*: Australians returning from overseas have been required to '''quarantine''' for 14 days since 15 March, with mandatory stays inside hotel rooms enforced since 29 March.
#: {{ux|en|International travelers must '''quarantine''' themselves at their own expense in a designated hotel for 14 days upon arrival.}}

====Derived terms====
{{derived terms|lang=en
|quarantinable
|quarantined<!--adjective-->
|quarantiner
|self-quarantine
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to place in quarantine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afzonderen}}, {{t+|nl|isoleren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|eristää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|βάζω σε καραντίνα}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|cách ly}}, {{t+|vi|phong tỏa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be placed or remain in quarantine}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կարանտինի ենթարկել}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|[[dát]] [[do]] [[karanténa|karantény]]}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|in [[quarantaine]] [[plaatsen]]/[[zetten]]}}<!-- split? -->
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kvaranteni}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|karantiini panema}}, {{t|et|isoleerima}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[panna]] [[karanteeniin]]}}, {{t|fi|[[asettaa]] karanteeniin}}, {{t+|fi|eristää}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|[[mettre]] en [[quarantaine]]}} <!-- was "[[mettre]] en [[quarantaine]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Georgian: {{t|ka|კარანტინში მოქცევა}}, {{t|ka|კარანტინს დაქვემდებარება}}
* German: {{t-check|de|[[unter]] [[Quarantäne]] [[stellen]]}} <!-- was "[[unter]] [[Quarantäne]] [[stellen]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Greek: {{t+|el|απομονώνω}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|elkülönít}}, {{t|hu|karanténba helyez}}, {{t|hu|karanténba zár}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mengarantina}}, {{t+|id|mengarantinakan}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|quarantenar}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|[[mettere]] in [[quarantena]]}} <!-- was "[[mettere]] in [[quarantena]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Lao: {{t|lo|ກັກກັນ}}, {{t|lo|ກັກໂຕ}}, {{t|lo|ກັກດ່ານ}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|قرنطینه کردن}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|poddać kwarantannie|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quarentenar}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|staviti u karantenu}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cuarentenar}}
* Swedish: {{t-check|sv|[[sätta]] i [[karantän]]}} {{attention|sv|2=was "[[sätta]] i [[karantän]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|กักกัน}}, {{t+|th|กักตัว}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|cách ly}}, {{t|vi|kiểm dịch}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{lb|en|Christainity|obsolete}} {{alternative case form of|en|Quarantine}}: [[Mount]] [[Quarentena]] [[near]] [[Jerusalem]], the [[place]] [[where]] [[Jesus Christ]] [[supposedly]] [[fast]]ed for 40 [[day]]s.
#* {{c.|1470}} William Wey, ''The Itineraries'', p. 14:
#*: [[beyond|By yonde]] [[is|ys]] a [[wilderness|wyldernys]] of '''quarentyne''',<br>[[where|Wher]] [[Christ|Cryst]] [[with|wyth]] [[fasting|fastyng]] [[his|hys]] body [[did|dyd]] [[pine|pyne]];<br>In that holy place, as we [[read|rede]],<br>The [[devil|deuyl]] [[would|wold]] had of [[stones|stonys]] [[bread|bred]].
#* {{a.|1500}} ''The Pilgrymage and the Wayes of Jerusalem'' ("Stations of Jerusalem"), HM 144, [https://iiif.biblissima.fr/collections/manifest/c7848d41bd1fed02b0af37c3a5bf7359f61fa800?tify={%22pages%22:[170],%22view%22:%22thumbnails%22} fol. 80 rev.]:
#*: [[then|Than]] turned we [[up|vp]] in to '''Quarantene'''<br>There [[our]]e [[lord]]e fasted [[forty|fourty]] [[days|dayes]] 

====Translations====
{{trans-top|desert in which Christ fasted}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erämaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|έρημος|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:OED Online|quarantine|n|155959|2022}}
* {{R:OED Online|quarantine|v|155960|2022}}
* {{R:OED Online|† quarantain|n|155956|2021}}

{{c|en|Forty|Venice|Public safety|Healthcare|Medicine}}
----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun form|g=f}}

# {{plural of|it|quarantina}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|it|a=aaeinnqrtu|quarentina}}