==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} ''[[quaternioun#Middle English|quaternioun]]'', from {{etyl|LL.|en}} ''[[quaternio#Latin|quaterniō]]'', from ''[[quaterni#Latin|quaternī]]'' (ablative form of ''[[quater#Latin|quater]]'', “four times”) + ''[[-ion#Latin|-iōn]]'', “[[-ion#English|-ion]]”.<ref name="D.C-etym">{{R:Dictionary.com 1.1}}</ref><ref name="AHD-etym">''American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language'', fourth edition</ref><ref name="COED-etym&sense">''Concise Oxford English Dictionary'', eleventh edition</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/kwəˈtəːni.ən/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[group]] or [[set]] of [[four]] [[people]] or [[thing]]s.
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Acts XII:
#*: Then wer the dayes of unlevended breed, and when he had caught hym, he put him in preson, and delyvered hym to iiij. '''quaternions''' off soudiers to be kept, entendynge after ester to brynge hym forth to the people.
#* '''1885''', Alexander Roberts, James Donaldson (original translators and editors), Arthur Cleveland Coxe (editor of American edition, unauthorized; author of annotations, notes, and introductions), Philip Schaff (also credited as editor), ''[[s:Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers: Series II/Volume II/Socrates/Book VI/Chapter 13|Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers: Series II]]'':
#*: This '''quaternion''' of revilers has traduced Origen, but not on the same grounds, one having found one cause of accusation against him, and another another; and thus each has demonstrated that what he has taken no objection to, he has fully accepted.
#* {{quote-book|author=Jason Glenn|title=Politics and History in the Tenth Century: The Work and World of Richer of Reims|location=Cambridge|publisher={{w|Cambridge University Press}}|year=2004|page=140|isbn=978-0-521-83487-2|passage=We saw above that the fourth quire consists of ten folios, two of which (folios 29 and 31) [[w:Richerus|Richer]] added to a '''quaternion''' (folios 23 to 28, 30, 32). Most of the folios Richer added to his manuscript supplement, elaborate, or amend text that he had already composed in the codex.}}
# A word of four [[syllable]]s.
#* Sir Walter Scott
#*: The triads and '''quaternions''' with which he loaded his sentences.
# {{lb|en|mathematics}} A four-dimensional [[hypercomplex number]] that consists of a real dimension and 3 imaginary ones (''i'', ''j'', ''k'') that are each a [[square root]] of -1. They are commonly used in [[vector]] mathematics and in calculating the [[rotation]] of three-dimensional objects.
#* '''2004''', David H. Eberly, ''3D Game Engine Architecture: Engineering Real-Time Applications with Wild Magic'':
#*: The right-hand side of the '''quaternion''' equation requires scalar multiplication and '''quaternion''' addition.

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|hypercomplex number}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|quaternionic}}

====See also====
* {{sense|mathematics}} {{l|en|octonion}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Mathematical sense}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|quaternion|n}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quaternion|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Quaternion|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τετραδόνιο|n}}, {{t|el|τετράνιο|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|quaternione|m}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|quaternio}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|kwaternion|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кватернион|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cuaternión|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
<references />

[[Category:English autological terms]]

[[et:quaternion]]
[[fr:quaternion]]
[[io:quaternion]]
[[ku:quaternion]]
[[my:quaternion]]
[[nl:quaternion]]
[[pl:quaternion]]
[[ru:quaternion]]
[[sv:quaternion]]
[[ta:quaternion]]
[[vi:quaternion]]
[[zh:quaternion]]