{{also|Queer}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{alt|en|qwer||Bermuda}}

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*terkʷ-}}
Attested since about 1510, from {{bor|en|sco|-}}, perhaps from {{der|en|gml|-}} (Brunswick [[dialect]]) {{m|gml|queer|t=oblique, off-center}} (also compare with {{cog|de|quer|t=diagonal}}), from {{der|en|osx|thwerh}}, from {{der|en|gmw-pro|*þwerh}}, from {{der|en|gem-pro|*þwerhaz}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*terkʷ-|t=to turn, twist, wind}}.

Compare {{cog|la|torqueō}}. Related to {{m|en|thwart}}. Began to be used to describe gay people in the late 1800s, see usage notes for more.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{enPR|kwîr}}, {{IPA|en|/kwiːɹ/}}
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|kwîr}}, {{IPA|en|/kwɪə/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-queer.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪə(ɹ)|s=1}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# {{lb|en|dated|outside|Scotland|and|Ulster}} [[weird|Weird]], [[odd]] or different; [[whimsical]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Irving Tales of a Traveller|passage=An old long-faced, long-bodied servant, gave a '''queer''' look}}
#* '''1865''', {{w|Lewis Carroll}}, ''{{w|Alice's Adventures in Wonderland}}''
#*: “I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. “I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a '''queer''' thing, to be sure! However, everything is '''queer''' to-day.”
#* '''1877''', {{w|Ulysses S. Grant}}, page 252, [https://books.google.com/books?id=w1ijHal5rKMC&pg=PA252&dq=%22skins+were%22+%22the+country+was+scarcely+large+enough+to+hold+the+sound+of+indignation+belched+forth+by+them+for+some+years.%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=96IJVbuyC4zDggSO34CIAg&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=%22skins%20were%22%20%22the%20country%20was%20scarcely%20large%20enough%20to%20hold%20the%20sound%20of%20indignation%20belched%20forth%20by%20them%20for%20some%20years.%22&f=false ''The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant: November 1, 1876&ndash;September 30, 1878'']
#*: One thing has struck me as a bit '''queer'''. During my two terms of office the whole Democratic press, and the morbidly honest and 'reformatory' portion of the Republican press, thought it horrible to keep U.S. troops stationed in the Southern States, and when they were called upon to protect the lives of negroes–as much citizens under the Constitution as if their skins were white–the country was scarcely large enough to hold the sound of indignation belched forth by them for some years. Now, however, there is no hesitation about exhausting the whole power of the government to suppress a strike on the slightest intimation that danger threatens.
#* '''1885''', {{w|David Dixon Porter}}, page 274, [https://archive.org/details/incidentsanecdot00portiala ''Incidents and Anecdotes of the Civil War'']
#*: It looked '''queer''' to me to see boxes labeled "His Excellency, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America." The packages so labeled contained Bass ale or Cognac brandy, which cost "His Excellency" less than we Yankees had to pay for it. Think of the President drinking imported liquors while his soldiers were living on pop-corn and water!
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=5
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]
|passage=Of all the '''queer''' collections of humans outside of a crazy asylum, it seemed to me this sanitarium was the cup winner. […] When you're well enough off so's you don't have to fret about anything but your heft or your diseases you begin to get queer, I suppose.}}
#* '''1927''', {{w|J. B. S. Haldane}}, “Possible Worlds” in ''Possible Worlds and Other Papers'', London: Chatto & Windus,<sup>[http://mugu.com/haldane/books/1927-Possible-Worlds/index.html], [http://www.fadedpage.com/books/20160325/html.php]</sup>
#*: Now, my own suspicion is that the universe is not only '''queerer''' than we suppose, but '''queerer''' than we ''can'' suppose.
#* '''1952''', {{w|E. B. White}}, ''{{w|Charlotte's Web}}'', page 3
#*: A '''queer''' look came over John Arable's face. He seemed almost ready to cry himself.
# {{lb|en|Britain|informal|dated}} Slightly [[unwell]] (''mainly in "to feel queer"''). {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=5
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]
|passage=Of all the queer collections of humans outside of a crazy asylum, it seemed to me this sanitarium was the cup winner. … When you're well enough off so's you don't have to fret about anything but your heft or your diseases you begin to get '''queer''', I suppose.}}
#* '''1951''', C. S. Lewis, ''Prince Caspian: The Return to Narnia''
#*: "Well, I'm—I'm jiggered," said Peter, and his voice also sounded '''queer'''.
# {{lb|en|Britain|slang}} [[Drunk]].
# {{lb|en|colloquial|sometimes|pejorative}} [[homosexual|Homosexual]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
# {{lb|en|colloquial|sometimes|pejorative}} Not [[heterosexual]], or not [[cisgender]]: [[homosexual]], [[bisexual]], [[asexual]], [[transgender]], etc.
# {{lb|en|broadly}} Pertaining to [[sexual]] or [[gender]] behaviour or identity which does not conform to conventional [[heterosexual]] or [[cisgender]] norms, assumptions etc. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|the '''queer''' community}}
#* '''1999''', {{w|Judith Butler}}, ''Gender Trouble'', Routledge 2002, preface to 1999 edition:
#*: If gender is no longer to be understood as consolidated through normative sexuality, then is there a crisis of gender that is specific to '''queer''' contexts?

====Usage notes====
* {{m|en||Queer}}, in the sense of "gay" or "non-heterosexual", has gone in and out of use as a pejorative and as a self-identifier a number of times:<ref name="Chauncey"/> it began to be used to describe gay people in the late 1800s (e.g. in an 1894 letter by {{w|John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry}}),<ref>{{cite book|title=The Trials of Oscar Wilde: Deviance, Morality, and Late-Victorian Society|last=Foldy|first=Michael S.|publisher=Yale University Press|year=1997|isbn=9780300071122|location=|page=|pages=22–23}}</ref><ref>{{Cite book|title=Strangers: Homosexual Love in the Nineteenth Century|last=Robb|first=Graham|publisher=W. W. Norton & Company|year=2005|isbn=9780393326499|location=|pages=262}}</ref> and became more widespread in the US and became used as a self-identifier by American gay men by the 1910s, continuing into the 1950s, though by the 1940s younger ones considered it pejorative and preferred {{m|en|gay}}, which had been in used since the 1930s, and had come by the 1950s to encompass the whole [[LGBT]] community.<ref name="Chauncey">{{Cite book|title=Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940|last=Chauncey|first=George|publisher=Basic Books|year=1995|isbn=9780465026210|location=|pages=[https://archive.org/details/gaynewyork00geor/page/13 13–16]|url=https://archive.org/details/gaynewyork00geor/page/13}}<br>J. L. Mey, ''Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics'' (2009, {{ISBN|008096298X}}), page 821</ref><ref name=GrahnGay>{{cite book |title=Another Mother Tongue - Gay Words, Gay Worlds |last=Grahn |first=Judy |4= |authorlink=Judy Grahn |publisher=Beacon Press |year=1984 |isbn=0-8070-7911-1 |location=Boston, MA |page= |pages=[https://archive.org/details/anothermotherto000grah/page/30 30–33] |url=https://archive.org/details/anothermotherto000grah/page/30 }}</ref> {{m|en||Queer}} began to be reclaimed as a neutral or positive descriptor by the 1980s,<ref name="OED">{{cite-book | year =2014 | title = queer | encyclopedia = Oxford English Dictionary | publisher = Oxford University Press}}</ref> at first most prominently by those who wanted to distinguish themselves from {{m|en|gay}}-identified people they felt had become too [[conservative]] and [[assimilationist]].<ref name=Sycamore>{{cite book|last1=Sycamore|first1=Mattilda Bernstein|title=That's Revolting!: Queer Strategies for Resisting Assimilation|date=2008|publisher=Counterpoint Press|isbn=9781593761950|page=1|edition=illustrated, revised|url=https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=t_EK8GjtytMC|accessdate=11 March 2015}}</ref> Some other people oppose the term as being still pejorative, or too radical, too informal, or too technical.<ref name=Gamson>{{cite-journal|last1=Gamson|first1=Joshua|title=Must Identity Movements Self-Destruct? A Queer Dilemma|journal=Social Problems|date=August 1995|volume=42|issue=3|pages=390–407|doi=10.1525/sp.1995.42.3.03x0104z}}</ref><!--Wisegeek, [http://www.wisegeek.org/is-queer-a-derogatory-word.htm "Is Queer a Derogatory Word?"] Retrieved 29 January 2014.--><ref name="AyoubPaternotte2014">{{cite book|author1=Phillip Ayoub|author2=David Paternotte|title=LGBT Activism and the Making of Europe: A Rainbow Europe?|url=https://books.google.com/books?id=7hlHBQAAQBAJ&pg=PT137|date=28 October 2014|publisher=Palgrave Macmillan|isbn=978-1-137-39177-3|pages=137–138}}</ref> The pejorative applied mainly to those assigned [[male]] at birth who were perceived as homosexual or effeminate; the reclaimed term is used by people of any sex or gender.<ref>[http://www.glaad.org/reference/lgb GLAAD media reference guide]</ref> Sometimes, the word refers only to [[nonheterosexual]] people and sexuality (and thus, speakers may contrast e.g. "queer trans women" with "straight trans women"),<ref>Morgan Lev Edward Holleb, ''The A-Z of Gender and Sexuality: From Ace to Ze'' (Jessica Kingsley Publishers, 2019, {{ISBN|9781784506636}}), page 140: "It's allegedly for gay men, but it includes bisexual and bicurious men, straight men, straight trans women, queer trans women, and non-binary people [...]".<br/>See also [[Citations:queer#"queer"_contrasted_with_"straight")|other citations]].</ref> while at other times the word includes [[noncisgender]] people and is analogous to {{m|en|LGBT}}.<ref>{{R:American Heritage Dictionary}} (definition 2b).<br/>See also [[Citations:queer#"queer"_coordinate_with_or_glossed_as_"LGBT"|citations]].</ref><ref>Jodi O'Brien, ''Encyclopedia of Gender and Society'', volume 1 (2009 ): "Queer is often used as an umbrella term to denote sexual identity within a particular community [...] a queer community may be made up of people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, and so on."<br/>Sarah Prager, ''Queer, There, and Everywhere'' (2017): "'queer' means anyone not totally straight or not totally cisgender".</ref> (Compare {{m|en|genderqueer}}.)
** See also {{pedia|lang=en|Queer#Definition and etymology}}
* The word {{m|en||queer}} is still in regular, everyday use in Scotland and Ulster in its original meaning of "strange" or "weird".

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|weird, odd or different}} {{seeSynonyms|en|strange|sense=1}}
* {{sense|unwell}} {{seeSynonyms|en|diseased|sense=1}}
* {{sense|homosexual}} {{seeSynonyms|en|homosexual|sense=1}}
* {{sense|outside traditional gender roles}} [[genderfluid]], [[non-binary]], [[intergender]]
* {{sense|unconventional sexual behavior}}

====Derived terms====
{{col4|en
|as queer as Dick's hatband
|genderqueer
|queer as Dick's hatband
|queercore
|queer fish
|queerish
|queer ken
|queerly
|queerness
|queerplatonic
|queer studies
|queer theory
}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|bor=1|de|queer|Queer}}
* {{desc|sv|queer|bor=1}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|weird, odd, different}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|iskis}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|странен|m}}, {{t+|bg|чудат|m}}, {{t+|bg|особен|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|estrany}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|怪|tr=guai}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bizar}}, {{t+|nl|afwijkend}}, {{t+|nl|vreemd}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|stranga}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|umbluu}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|outo}}, {{t+|fi|omituinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|étrange}}, {{t+|fr|bizarre}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|stramp}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|rechamante}}, {{t+|gl|pelengrín}}, {{t+|gl|mapero}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|უცნაური}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|seltsam}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|अजीब}}, {{t+|hi|अनोखा}}, {{t+|hi|बेढंग}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|furcsa}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|strano}}, {{t+|it|bizzarro|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|奇妙|tr=きみょうな, kimyō na|alt=奇妙な}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|чу́ден|m}}, {{t|mk|нео́бичен|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dziwaczny}}, {{t+|pl|dziwny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bizarro}}, {{t+|pt|estranho}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стра́нный|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|neònach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raro}}, {{t+|es|extraño}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slightly unwell}}
* Breton: {{t|br|dihet}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|неразположен}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slecht}}, ('''to feel queer''' zich slecht in zijn vel voelen)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|outo}}, {{t+|fi|omituinen}}
* French: {{t|fr|[[mal]] [[fichu]]}} ('''to feel queer''' se sentir mal fichu)
{{trans-mid}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|lacrarse}}, {{t+|gl|desazoarse}}, {{t+|gl|aquelar}}
* German: {{t+|de|unwohl}}
* Italian: {{t|it|un po' [[male]]}} ('''to feel queer''' stare un po' male, {{l|it|sentirsi}} poco bene)
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|нераспо́ложен}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|trucha}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: homosexual}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хомосексуален|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|marieta|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|bøsse}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|homoseksueel}}, {{t+|nl|homo}}
* Esperanto: {{qualifier|inoffensive}} {{t+|eo|geja}}, {{qualifier|offensive}} {{t|eo|gejaĉa}}, {{qualifier|offensive or archaic}} {{t|eo|pederasta}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sateenkaari|alt=sateenkaari-}} {{qualifier|neutral slang for LGBT}}, {{t+|fi|hintti|alt=hintti-}} {{qualifier|offensive for gay men}}, {{t+|fi|homo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gay}} {{q|inoffensive}}, {{t+|fr|pédé}} {{qualifier|highly offensive}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|mariqueiro|m}}, {{t+|gl|maricallo|m}}, {{t+|gl|conequé|m}}, {{t+|gl|lareiro|m}}, {{t+|gl|lariqueiro|m}}, {{t+|gl|cazolas|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ქვიარი}}
* German: {{t+|de|schwul}}, {{t+|de|lesbisch}} {{qualifier|lesbian}}, {{t+|de|homo}}, {{t+|de|queer}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|buzi}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hinsegin}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|homo}}, {{t+|id|maho}}, {{t|id|hombreng}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aiteach}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|omosessuale}} {{q|neutral}}, {{t+|it|finocchio|m}}, {{t+|it|checca|f}}, {{t+|it|frocio|m}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|karucha}}, {{t|lad|kulandrero}}, {{t|lad|blando}}, {{t|lad|kulampara}}, {{t|lad|kulo alegre}} {{qualifier|all mostly derogatory}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|bonju}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skeiv}}, {{t+|no|homse|m}}, {{qualifier|highly offensive}} {{t+|no|soper|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|queerowy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bicha|f}}, {{t+|pt|viado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гомосексуали́ст}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marica}}, {{t+|es|maricón}}, {{t+|es|trucha}}, {{t|es|julay}}, {{t|es|soplanucas}}, [[muerdealmohadas]] {{qualifier|very offensive}}, {{t+|es|joto|m}} {{qualifier|Mexico|offensive}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|queer}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ibne}}
* Zazaki: {{t|zza|nerimako}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to non-normative sexuality}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|извратен}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|marica|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|酷儿}}, {{t|cmn|酷兒}}
* Danish: {{t|da|queer}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kvira}}, {{t+|eo|GLATa}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sateenkaari|alt=sateenkaari-}} {{qualifier|neutral slang for LGBT}}, {{t+|fi|pervo}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ქვიარი}}
* German: {{t+|de|queer}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|קְוִּויר|m|tr=kuír}}, {{t|he|קווירית|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|queer}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hinsegin}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aiteach}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|クィア}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|bonju}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skeiv}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|queerowy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|queer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|извращённый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|queer}}, {{qualifier|neutral}} {{t+|es|torcido}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|queer}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|குயர் }}, {{t|ta|பால்புது}}, {{t|ta|பால்புதுமை}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|colloquial|sometimes|pejorative}} A person who is or [[appear]]s [[homosexual]], or who has homosexual [[quality|qualities]].
#* {{quote-book|en|date=1 November 1894|author={{w|John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry}}|chapter=[Letter from Queensbury to Alfred Montgomery, 1 Nov 1894, in the aftermath of the {{w|Oscar Wilde#Regina v. Wilde|trial of Oscar Wilde}}]|editor=Michael S. Foldy|title=The Trials of Oscar Wilde: Deviance, Morality, and Late-Victorian Society|publisher=Yale University Press|location=New Haven and London|year_published=1997|page=22|pageurl=https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=z_gdenJscCYC&pg=PA22|passage=Now that the first flush of this catastrophe and grief is passed, I write to tell you that it is a judgement on the whole lot of you. Montgomerys, The Snob '''Queers''' like {{w|Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery|[the Earl of] Rosebery}} & certainly Christian hypocrite {{w|William Ewart Gladstone|[William Ewart] Gladstone}} [...]}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Eugene Fisher|passage=[...] fourteen young men were invited [...] with the premise that they would have the opportunity of meeting some of the prominent ''''queers,'''' [...] and the further attraction that some 'chickens' as the new recruits in the vice are called, would be available.|chapter=Transmittal to {{w|the Sacramento Bee}} [a.k.a Shakespeare Transmittal]|month=November|year=1914|editor=Sharon R. Ullman|title=Sex Seen: The Emergence of Modern Sexuality in America|page=64|pageurl=https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=MBYQXN-L6QcC&pg=PA64|year_published=1998|publisher=University of California Press|isbn=9780520919433|location=Berkeley and Los Angeles}}
#* {{quote-text|en|author={{w|Allen Irvin Bernstein|Allen Bernstein}}|month=January-June|year=1940|title=Millions of Queers (Our Homo America)|chapter=What to do about it: Queers|passage=It is the '''queers''' themselves whose answers to "What to do about it [homosexuality]" are most important. They, rather than the normals, cops, parents, or doctors are the persons most vitally concerned.|page=132|pageurl=http://outhistory.org/files/original/68e8910fb2a7681a37544557a5178eb7.pdf#page=141|publisher=[Unpublished MS of the {{w|United States National Library of Medicine}}]|oclc=14298678}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|passage=Any blow against the '''queer''' is really a blow struck against a part of our­selves which we cannot accept or understand. I think in every case it would be correct to say that someone with a strong hostility toward homosexuals has a latent homosexual drive equal to the hostility.|month=May|year=1959|journal={{w|Mattachine Review}}|publisher=Mattachine Society|volume=V|number=5|page=11|column=2|pageurl=https://digitalassets.lib.berkeley.edu/sfbagals/Mattachine_Review/1959_Mattachine_Vol05_No05_May.pdf#page=7|title=McReynolds Reply to {{w|Seymour Krim|[Seymour] Krim}}|author={{w|David McReynolds}}|location=Los Angeles|issn=0465-3874}}
#* {{quote-book|en|title={{w|The Naked Civil Servant (book)|The Naked Civil Servant}}|author={{w|Quentin Crisp}}|year=1968|page=207|passage=If you asked the man in the modern street for his opinion of homosexuality, he would probably reply, 'I've nothing against '''queers''' myself but I wouldn't like one of them to marry my father.'|location=London|publisher=Cape|oclc=654718241}}
#* {{quote-text|en|title={{w|Queers Read This|Queers Read This}}|month=June |year=1990 |passage='''Queers''' are under siege.<br/>'''Queers''' are being attacked on all front and I'm afraid it's ok with us.<br/>In 1969, '''Queers''' were attacked. It wasn't ok. '''Queers''' fought back, took the streets. SHOUTED.|publisher=Published Anonymously by Queers [Distributed at {{w|New York Pride}}, 1990] |oclc=1104720366 |page=2 |column=3 |pageurl=http://www.againstequality.org/files/QRS_1990.pdf#page=2}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|title=Football coach suspended for {{w|Michelle Obama}} insult|passage=He also voiced his dislike for gays, stating: 'I don't believe in '''queers'''. I don't like '''queers'''. I don't hate them as a person, but what they do is wrong and an abomination against God.'|journal={{w|USA Today}}|date=5 February 2013|url=https://eu.usatoday.com/story/theoval/2013/02/05/michelle-obama-alabama-football-coach/1892939/|issn=0734-7456}}
# {{lb|en|colloquial|sometimes|pejorative}} A person of any non-[[heterosexual]] [[sexuality]] or [[sexual]] [[identity]].
# {{lb|en|colloquial|sometimes|pejorative}} A person of any [[genderqueer]] [[identity]].
#* '''2014''', Inga Muscio, ''Autobiography of a Blue-eyed Devil''
#*: Gentrification often starts with the artists, revolutionaries, freaks, transfolks, and '''queers''' (what I would call my people) moving into poor neighborhoods inhabited by people of color.
# {{lb|en|definite|with "the"|informal|archaic}} [[counterfeit|Counterfeit]] [[money]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1913|author=[[w:Rex Stout|Rex Stout]]|title=Her Forbidden Knight|page=133|publisher=[[w:Carroll & Graf Publishers|Carroll & Graf]]|year_published=1997|isbn=0786704446
|passage=You're shoving '''the queer'''.}}
#: {{syn|en|funny money|snide}}

====Usage notes====
* See the notes on the adjective (above) for more on the meaning of the term.
* Regarding the use of the term as a noun, compare the usage notes about ''[[gay#Usage notes|gay]]''.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|homosexual person}} {{seeSynonyms|en|homosexual person|male homosexual|sense=1}}

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|LGBTQ}}, {{l|en|QUILTBAG}}

====Derived terms====
{{col1|en
|Queer Street
|queerdo
|shove the queer
|smear the queer
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-see|slang: homosexual|fag}}

{{trans-top|slang: person of atypical sexuality or sexual identity}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|janet|m}} {{qualifier|offensive}}, {{t+|nl|nicht|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vinokas}} {{qualifier|neutral}}, {{t+|fi|pervo}} {{qualifier|archaic}}, {{t+|fi|queer}}, {{t|fi|kveeri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Queers|p}} {{qualifier|plural}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|קְוִּויר|m|tr=kuir}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|குயர்}}, {{t|ta|பால்புதுமையினர்}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Breton: {{t-check|br|heñvelreviad|m}} {{qualifier|neutral}}, {{t+check|br|paotretaer|m}} {{qualifier|inoffensive}}, {{t-check|br|pich kaoc'h|m}} {{qualifier|offensive}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+check|bg|хомосексуали́ст|m}}, {{t-check|bg|гей|m}}, {{t+check|bg|педераст|m}} {{qualifier|offensive}}, {{t-check|bg|педал|m}} {{qualifier|highly offensive}}
* German: {{t+check|de|Homosexueller|m}}, {{t+check|de|Schwuler|m}} {{qualifier|sometimes offensive}}, {{t+check|de|Lesbe|f}} {{qualifier|sometimes offensive}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+check|hu|buzi}}
* Swedish: {{t+check|sv|gay}}, {{t+check|sv|bög}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|dated}} To [[render]] an endeavor or agreement [[ineffective]] or [[null]].
#* '''1955''', [[w:Rex Stout|Rex Stout]], "When a Man Murders...",<!--... in title--> in [[w:Three Witnesses (book)|''Three Witnesses'']], October 1994 [[w:Bantam Books|Bantam]] edition, {{ISBN|0553249592}}, page 78:
#*: I was a lot more apt to '''queer''' it than help it.
#: {{syn|en|invalidate}}
# {{lb|en|UK|dialect|dated}} To [[puzzle]]. <!--Webster 1913-->
#* '''1887''', G. W. Appelton, ''A Terrible Legacy: A Tale of the South Downs'', London: Ward and Downey, Chapter II, page 12, [https://books.google.ca/books?id=VWQUAAAAQAAJ&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]:
#*: "But lor-a-mussy, Jacob, how could a woman get away from here with all her boxes in the middle of the night?"
#*: "That's what '''queered''' me," and Spink slowly shook his head, "and '''queered''' a good many; for of course it got newsed about {{...}}"
#* '''1894''', Ivan Dexter, ''Talmud; A Strange Narrative of Central Australia'', published in serial form in ''Port Adelaide News and Lefevre's Peninsula Advertiser'' (SA), Chapter V, [http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks16/1600641.txt]:
#*: "Where do you come from?" Stanley '''queered'''.
# {{lb|en|slang|dated}} To [[ridicule]]; to [[banter]]; to [[rally]].
# {{lb|en|slang|dated}} To [[spoil]] the effect or success of, as by ridicule; to throw a wet blanket on; to spoil.
#* '''1920''', [[w:F. Scott Fitzgerald|F. Scott Fitzgerald]], ''[[w:This Side of Paradise|This Side of Paradise]]'', New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, Book Two, Chapter IV, pages 270-271, [https://archive.org/details/cu31924096224682]:
#*: "Food is what '''queered''' the party. We ordered a big supper to be sent up to the room about two o'clock. Alec didn't give the waiter a tip, so I guess the little bastard snitched."
#* '''1926''', [[w:D. H. Lawrence|D. H. Lawrence]], "Glad Ghosts" in ''The Complete Short Stories'', Penguin, 1977, Vol. 3, page 678:
#*: Well, then I got buried—shell dropped, and the dug-out caved in—and that '''queered''' me. They sent me home.
# {{lb|en|social science}} To [[reevaluate]] or [[reinterpret]] (a work) with an eye to [[sexual orientation]] and/or to [[gender]], as by applying [[queer theory]].
#: {{syn|en|queerify}}
#* '''2003''', Marcella Althaus-Reid, ''The Queer God'', page 9:
#*: If I go, for instance, to the history of the church in Latin America, and decide to '''queer''' the history of the Jesuitic Missions, I may find that, in many ways, the missions were more sexual than Christian.
#* '''2006''', Carla Freccero, ''Queer/Early/Modern'' (page 80)
#*: Jonathan Goldberg further explores the implications of '''queering''' history in his essay in the same volume.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2013|author=Mark Davidson|author2=Deborah Martin|title=Urban Politics: Critical Approaches|publisher=SAGE|isbn=9781446293034|chapterurl=https://books.google.de/books?id=d6CVAgAAQBAJ&lpg=PT168&dq=%22urban%20studies%22&pg=PT168#v=onepage&q=%22urban%20studies%22&f=false|chapter=8
|passage=We might say that there has been a ‘'''queering'''’ of urban studies insofar as the metropolitan lives, subcultures and social movements of gays and lesbians are now seen as valid objects of study.}}
# {{lb|en|slang|LGBT|neologism}} To make a work more appealing or attractive to LGBT people, such as by not having strict genders for playable characters.

====Derived terms====
{{col1|en
|queer someone's pitch
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to apply queer theory}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kvirigi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|bederven}}, {{t+check|nl|tegenwerken}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|obstruer}}, {{t+check|fr|saboter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+check|de|queeren}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# [[queerly|Queerly]].

====Translations====
{{trans-see|queerly}}

===References===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Keywords 21st}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
<references/>

[[Category:en:LGBT]]
[[Category:en:People]]
[[Category:en:Sexual orientations]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
{{bor+|da|en|queer}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|da|/ˈkwiːɐ̯/}}

===Adjective===
{{da-adj|-|-}}

# {{l|en|queer}} {{gl|not conforming to [[conventional]] [[sexual]] or [[gender]] [[norms]]}} {{defdate|from 1994}}

===References===
* {{R:DDO}}

{{c|da|LGBT}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|fr|en|queer}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA|couirre}}
* {{audio|fr|LL-Q150 (fra)-Lepticed7-queer.wav|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj|inv=1}}

# [[#English|queer]] {{gloss|not conforming to traditional sexuality}}

{{C|fr|Sexual orientations|LGBT}}

----

==German==

===Etymology 1===
{{bor+|de|en|queer}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|de|/kviːɐ̯/}}
* {{audio|de|De-queer.ogg}}

====Adjective====
{{de-adj}}

# {{lb|de|colloquial}} [[#English|queer]]
#* {{quote-book|de|year=2019|title=metamorphosen 23 – Queer: Magazin für Literatur und Kultur|pageurl=https://books.google.de/books?id=VhmFDwAAQBAJ&lpg=PT1&dq=%22queer%22&pg=PT1#v=onepage&q=%22queer%22&f=false|page=5|publisher=metamorphosen im Verbrecher Verlag|isbn=9783957323729
|passage=Die nachvollziehbare Gegenwehr macht queer zu einer immer verbisseneren Chiffre für eine vermeintlich klar abgegrenzte Identität: anti-rassistisch, anti-kapitalistisch, radikal. QUEER IST UTOPISTISCH. Bin ich '''queer''' genug?|t=The understandable resistance makes queer an increasingly dogged cipher for a supposedly clearly delimited identity: anti-racist, anti-capitalist, radical. QUEER IS UTOPIAN. Am I queer enough?}}

=====Declension=====
{{de-adecl}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|de|Queer}}

===Etymology 2===

====Adjective====
{{de-adj}}

# {{alternative form of|de|quer}}

=====Declension=====
{{de-adecl}}

====Adverb====
{{de-adv}}

# {{alternative form of|de|quer}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:Duden}}
* {{R:DWDS}}

----

==Polish==
{{wp|lang=pl}}

===Etymology===
{{bor+|pl|en|queer}}, from {{der|pl|sco|-}}, perhaps from {{der|pl|gml|-}} (Brunswick [[dialect]]) {{m|gml|queer}}, from {{der|pl|gem-pro|*þwerhaz}}, from {{der|pl|ine-pro|*terkʷ-}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{pl-p|kłir|a=LL-Q809 (pol)-Jest Spoczko-queer.wav|h=queer}}

===Noun===
{{pl-noun|m-in|indecl=yes}}

# [[queerness]] {{gl|quality of being queer, in the sense of not conforming to sexual or gender norms}}

====Derived terms====
{{col3|pl|title=adjective|queerowy}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:pl:WSJP}}
* {{R:pl:PWN}}

{{C|pl|LGBT}}