{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/kwɪk/}}
*{{audio|en-us-quick.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪk|-ɪk]]

===Etymology===
Old English {{term|cwic||alive}}, from Germanic *{{term||kwikwa-}}, from {{PIE.}} *{{term||gʷih₃u̯os|alive}}, from *{{term||gʷei-|to live}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|kwiek}}, German {{term|keck}}, Swedish {{term|kvick}}; and (from Indo-European) with Greek {{term|sc=Grek|βίος|tr=víos}}, Latin {{term|vivus}}, Lithuanian {{term|gývas}}, Latvian {{term|dzivs}}, Russian {{term|sc=Cyrl|живой|tr=živoj}}, Irish {{term|biathaim||nourish}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Moving with [[speed]], [[rapidity]] or [[swiftness]], or capable of doing so; [[rapid]]; [[fast]].
#: ''I ran to the station – but I wasn't '''quick''' enough.''
#: ''He's a '''quick''' runner.''
# Occuring in a short time; happening or done rapidly.
#: ''That was a '''quick''' meal.''
# Lively, fast-thinking, witty, intelligent.
#: ''You have to be very '''quick''' to be able to compete in ad-lib theatrics.''
# Mentally agile, alert, perceptive.
#: ''My father is old but he still has a '''quick''' wit.''
# Of temper: easily aroused to anger; [[quick-tempered]].
# {{archaic}} Alive, living.
#: ''The '''quick''' and the dead.''
# {{archaic}} [[pregnant|Pregnant]], especially at the stage where the foetus's movements can be felt; figuratively, alive with some emotion or feeling.
#: ''She was '''quick''' with child.''
# Of water: flowing.
# Burning, flammable, fiery.

====Synonyms====
*{{sense|moving with speed}} [[fast]], [[speedy]], [[rapid]], [[swift]]

====Antonyms====
*{{sense|moving with speed}} [[slow]]

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
*[[quick fix]]
*[[quicken]]
*[[quicklime]]
*[[quicksand]]
*[[quicksilver]]
*[[quick smart]]
{{mid2}}
*[[quickstep]]
*[[quick-witted]]
*[[wiki-wiki]]
*[[quickly]]
*[[quickie]]
{{bottom2}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|moving with speed}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[سريع]]}} {{IPAchar|(sarīʕ)}}
*Chinese: [[快]] (kuài)
*Dutch: [[snel]], [[vlug]], [[rap]]
*Finnish: [[nopea]], [[vikkelä]]
*French: [[rapide]]
*German: [[schnell]], [[geschwind]], [[rasch]]
*Hungarian: [[gyors]]
*Icelandic: [[fljótur]]
*Italian: [[rapido]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[速い]], [[はやい]] (hayai)
*Korean: [[빠른]] (ppareun)
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[گورج]]}}
*Norwegian: [[rask]], [[kvikk]]
*Portuguese: [[rápido]], [[ligeiro]]
*Russian: [[быстрый]] (býstryj)
*Spanish: [[rápido]]
*Swedish: [[snabb]] {{c}} [[snabbt]] {{n}}, [[rapp]] {{c}} [[rappt]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|occurring in a short time}}
*Dutch: [[snel]], [[vlug]], [[rap]], [[haastig]]
*Finnish: [[nopea]], [[pikainen]]
*Japanese: [[速い]], [[はやい]] (hayai)
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[빠르다]] (ppareuda)
*Norwegian: [[rask]], [[kvikk]]
*Portuguese: [[rápido]], [[ligeiro]]
*Swedish: [[snabb]] {{c}} [[snabbt]] {{n}}, [[kvick]] {{c}} [[kvickt]] {{n}}, [[rapp]] {{c}} [[rappt]] {{n}}, [[hastig]] {{c}} [[hastigt]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lively, witty}}
*Finnish: [[sukkela]], [[nokkela]]
*Norwegian: [[kvikk]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[rápido]], [[ligeiro]]
*Swedish: [[snabb]] {{c}} [[snabbt]] {{n}}, [[kvick]] {{c}} [[kvickt]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mentally agile, perceptive}}
*Finnish: [[nopeaälyinen]], [[nokkela]]
*German: [[schnell von Begriff]]
*Korean: [[빠르다]] (ppareuda)
{{trans-mid}}
*Norwegian: [[kvikk]]
*Portuguese: [[rápido]], [[ligeiro]]
*Swedish: [[kvick]] {{c}} [[kvickt]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|easily aroused to anger}}
*Finnish: [[äkkipikainen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|alive}}
*Finnish: [[elävä]]
*German: [[quicklebendig]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Norwegian: [[frisk og rask]] (literally ''healthy and quick''))
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pregnant}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|flowing}}
*Finnish: [[virtaava]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|burning, fiery}}
*Finnish: [[herkkä|herkästi]] [[syttyvä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans-top}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[бърз]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[rapida]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[rapide]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[svelto]], [[rapido]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[rapid]] {{m}}, [[rapidă]] {{f}}, [[iute]] {{m}}, {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[త్వరగా]] (tvaragaa)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|er}}

# {{colloquial}} [[quickly]]
#: ''get rich '''quick'''''
#: ''come here, '''quick'''!''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# [[raw]] or [[sensitive]] [[flesh]], especially that [[underneath]] [[finger]] and [[toe]] [[nail]]s.

====Related terms====
*[[cut to the quick]] Literally, to cut or clip fingernails or toenails short and close to the [[quick]], increasing sensitivity and/or causing pain and/or drawing blood. Figuratively, to [[cut it close]], to leave a narrow margin, to [[leave little room]] for escape, to [[run a risk]], etc.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sensitive flesh}}
*Dutch: [[levend vlees]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:quick]]
[[ar:quick]]
[[cs:quick]]
[[da:quick]]
[[de:quick]]
[[el:quick]]
[[fr:quick]]
[[ko:quick]]
[[io:quick]]
[[it:quick]]
[[kk:quick]]
[[ku:quick]]
[[hu:quick]]
[[ja:quick]]
[[pl:quick]]
[[ru:quick]]
[[simple:quick]]
[[fi:quick]]
[[sv:quick]]
[[ta:quick]]
[[te:quick]]
[[th:quick]]
[[vi:quick]]
[[uk:quick]]
[[zh:quick]]