==English==

===Etymology===
{{named-after|occ=philosopher and logician|Willard Van Orman Quine|wplink==|lang=en}}. Senses related to self-reference are derived from [[w:Douglas Hofstadter|Douglas Hofstadter]]'s ''[[w:Gödel, Escher, Bach|Gödel, Escher, Bach]]'' (referencing the [[w:Quine's paradox|paradox named after him]]), while the verb sense of "to deny the importance or significance of something" was independently coined by [[w:Daniel Dennett|Daniel Dennett]] in ''[[w:The Philosophical Lexicon|The Philosophical Lexicon]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/kwaɪn/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|Quine (computing)}}
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|computing}} A program that produces its own [[source code]] as output.
#* '''1994''', John David Regehr, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/comp.lang.misc/-dR-TMoB3S4/CMfGrs1MzwQJ a quine in C++?]'', comp.lang.misc, Usenet
#*: This has been bugging me recently. Any '''quines''' or pointers to relevant articles or web pages is appreciated. Thanks!
#* '''1999''', Gergo Barany, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/comp.lang.c/EHioEFXMN_A/4BtmxcV_dlAJ Re: CC hack?]'', comp.lang.c, Usenet
#*: There was also a quine thread here in comp.lang.c just days ago, search deja.com (the thread's title was something about self-printing programs, I think).
#* '''2002''', Clinton Pierce, ''Perl Developer's Dictionary'', Sams Publishing {{ISBN|9780672320675}}, page 269
#*: Most '''quines''' are notoriously difficult (and fiendish) to write. Perl can cheat, though. :)
#* '''2003''', Arthur J. O'Dwyer, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/comp.lang.c/mERds_qS6wg/vYrezr0rWqoJ Re: "A to Z of C"]'', comp.lang.c, Usenet
#*: Why have a one-page chapter that doesn't say anything? At the least, you should present a quine program written in pure ISO C (I can send you one if you like); {{...}}
#* '''2004''', David Darling, ''The Universal Book of Mathematics: From Abracadabra to Zeno's Paradoxes'', John Wiley & Sons {{ISBN|9780471667001}}, page 264
#*: Although writing a '''quine''' is not always easy, and in fact may seem impossible, it can always be done in any programming language that is Turing complete (see Turing machine), which includes every programming language actually in use.
#* '''2005''', Simon Cozens, ''Advanced Perl Programming'', O'Reilly Media {{ISBN|9781449378912}}, page 260
#*: SelfGOL can reproduce itself; it can turn other programs into a '''quine'''; it can display a scrolling banner; it plays the Game of Life; and it contains no (ordinary) loops, goto statements, or if statements. Control flow is done, well, interestingly.
#* '''2008''', Uwe Seifert, Jin-hyun Kim, Anthony Moore, ''Paradoxes of Interactivity: Perspectives for Media Theory, Human-computer Interaction, and Artistic Investigations'', transcript Verlag {{ISBN|9783899428421}}, page 179
#*: Yet from a different perspective, it describes the process of producing this very code; in other words, it is because object- and meta-language interrelate that makes a '''quine''' difficult; in less reflective programs, where means and ends are more separate, this difficulty is not so obvious.
#* '''2009''', Mike Ash, [//groups.google.com/d/msg/rec.arts.sf.written/tN-qCzPjCAE/7Uowd0MXCmUJ Re: 406 Not Acceptable (was Re: "--All You Zombies--" title)], rec.arts.sf.written, Usenet
#*: Gee, last time I wrote a '''quine''' in Lisp it ended up being kind of difficult...
#* '''2011''', Antoine Amarilli et al., "Can Code Polymorphism Limit Information Leakage?", ''Information Security Theory and Practice: Security and Privacy of Mobile Devices in Wireless Communication'' (edited by Claudio Agostino Ardagna, Jianying Zhou), Springer {{ISBN|9783642210396}}, page 14 [https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/099.pdf]
#*: The solution is to make a '''quine''' that is also a λ-expression (instead of a list of statements). This is possible, thanks to S-expressions. The way the '''quine''' works relies on the fact that its code is a list of statements and that the last one can take a list of the previous ones as arguments.
#* '''2012''', Pietro Liò, Dinesh Verma, ''Biologically Inspired Networking and Sensing: Algorithms and Architectures'', IGI Global Snippet {{ISBN|9781613500934}}
#*: '''Quines''' exist for any programming language that is Turing complete and it is a common challenge for students to come up with a '''Quine''' in their language of choice. The '''Quine''' Page provides a comprehensive list of such programs in various languages.
#* '''2013''', Brian, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/talk.religion.buddhism/Denn9TZywdo/edWL0Sat5cwJ Re: "Mountains will be Mountains"]'', talk.religion.buddhism, Usenet
#*: Upon receiving a "QUINE" request by the client, the server will first send a 01 OK response, and will then provide the client with a '''quine''' in the programming language used to implement the server.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|program that outputs its own source code}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Further reading====
* {{R:Jargon File}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|quin}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy}} To deny the existence or significance of something obviously real or important.
#* '''1993''', Howard Margolis, ''Paradigms and Barriers: How Habits of Mind Govern Scientific Beliefs'', University of Chicago Press {{ISBN|9780226505237}}, page 62
#*: As with the puzzle of what happens during the combustion of a metal in pure oxygen (the "steel wool" experiment), this result can of course be '''quined'''. Taking the phlogistic view, we could say that the calx requires the same phlogiston content as the metal, so of course the amount of water absorbed must be in accord with that.
#* '''1999''', Denis Fisette, ''Consciousness and Intentionality: Models and Modalities of Attribution'', Springer {{ISBN|9780792359074}}, page 119
#*: They deny that mental states and events actually possess the qualitative properties attributed to them by qualia friends and, as a consequence, they advocate '''quining''' qualia.
#* '''2000'''', Don Ross, ''Introduction: The Dennettian Stance'' in 2000, Don Ross, Andrew Brook and David Thompson, ''Dennett’s Philosophy: A Comprehensive Assessment'', Massachusetts Institute of Technology, [http://books.google.com/books?id=jDwFYqcMEScC&pg=PA14&dq=%22quined%22#v=onepage page 14]:
#*: Qualia are '''quined''' not because Dennett imagines that there is nothing it is like to be conscious, but because no clear demarcation can be drawn between representations of qualitative properties and representations of other sorts of states.
#* '''2001''', Nenad Miscevic, "'''Quining''' the apriori", ''Knowledge, Language and Logic: Questions for Quine'' (edited by A. Orenstein, P. Kotatko), Springer {{ISBN|9781402002533}}, page 95
#* '''2003''', W. Martin Davies, ''The Philosophy of Sir William Mitchell (1861-1962): A Mind's Own Place'', Edwin Mellen Press Limited, [http://books.google.com/books?id=0d_WAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA182&dq=%22quined%22#search_anchor page 182]:
#*: Structure in the phenomenological realm is not something to be “'''quined'''”, but fostered.
#* '''2003''', Roy Sorensen, ''A Brief History of the Paradox: Philosophy and the Labyrinths of the Mind: Philosophy and the Labyrinths of the Mind'', Oxford University Press {{ISBN|9780199728572}}, page 357
#*: Daniel Dennett's ''The Philosophical Lexicon'' defines "quine" as a verb: "to deny the existence or significance of something real or significant". Quine has '''quined''' names, intentions, and the distinction between psychology and epistemology. In 1951 Quine '''quined''' the distinction between analytic and synthetic statements.
#* '''2008''', Daniel Barnett, ''Movement as Meaning: In Experimental Film'', Rodopi {{ISBN|9789042023857}}, page 114
#*: The private language machine and the evolution of a medium: One of the things that Wittgenstein is most famous for is '''quining''' "private language". By saying that private languages can't exist Wittgenstein wanted us to recognize the inescapable function of the social fabric in language's work.
#* Andrew Pessin, ''Mental Transparency, Direct Sensaition, and the Unity of the Cartesian Mind'' in '''2009''', Jon Miller, ''Topics in Early Modern Philosophy of Mind'', Springer, [http://books.google.com/books?id=HDEyqVo_RdAC&pg=PA34&dq=%22quined%22#v=onepage page 34]:
#*: One might object that in this section I’ve not exactly '''quined''' Cartesian qualia, {{...}}
# To [[append]] something to a quotation of itself.
#* '''1984''', Douglas R. Hofstadter, "Analogies and Metaphors to Explain Gödel's Theorem", ''Mathematics: People, Problems, Results'' (edited by Douglas M. Campbell, John C. Higgins), Taylor & Francis {{ISBN|9780534032036}}, page 274
#*: "Quining" is what I called it in my book. (He certainly didn't call it that!) '''Quining''' is an operation that I define on any string of English. {{...}} Here is an example of a '''quined''' phrase: "is a sentence with no subject" is a sentence with no subject.
#* '''1997''', Nathaniel S. Hellerstein, ''Diamond: A Paradox Logic'', World Scientific {{ISBN|9789810228507}}, page 183
#*: Diamond arises in Gödelian meta-mathematics. In meta-math, sentences can refer to each other's provability, and to '''quining'''. This yields self-reference: T = "is provable when quined" is provable when quined.
#* '''2001''', Howard Mirowitz, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/rec.music.dylan/-glZphUrLHc/ef-3ORmR7oYJ Re: Why is L&amp;T in quotation marks?]'', rec.music.dylan, Usenet
#*: In "Love And Theft", Dylan '''quined''' the love and theft in his songs in the album's title, "Love And Theft". So the subtext, the meaning of the entire album, when preceded by its quotation, its symbol, yields a paradox.
#* '''2001''', Jim Evans, ''[//groups.google.com/d/msg/rec.humor.oracle.d/RcSlDstxB6M/rTY4DUufepYJ Re: Quining for the fjords]'', rec.humor.oracle.d, Usenet
#*: And, of course, the existence of various sigmonsters guarantees entire '''quined'''-posts.

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
Variant of {{m|sco|quean}}, cognate with English {{m|en|quean}}. More at {{m|en|queen}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kwəin/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# {{lb|sco|Doric Scots}} young [[woman]], [[girl]], [[daughter]]