{{also|quít|quît|quịt}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|quight}} (''obsolete'')

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|kwĭt}}, {{IPA|en|/kwɪt/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-quit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
{{PIE root|en|kʷyeh₁}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|quiten}}, {{m|enm|quyten}}, from {{etyl|xno|en}} {{m|fro|quitter}}, {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|quitter}}, from {{m|fro|quitte||acquited, quit}}, ultimately from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|quietus}}.

Compare {{cog|nl|kwijten||to quit}}, Low German {{m|nds-de|quitten||to quit}}, German {{m|de|quitten}}, {{m|de|quittieren}}, Danish {{m|da|kvitte}}, Swedish {{m|sv|qvitta}}, {{m|sv|kvitta||to quit, leave, set off}}, Icelandic {{m|is|kvitta}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|quits|quitting|quit|past2=quitted}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To [[pay]] (a debt, fine etc.).
#* '''1605''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}
#*: Enkindle all the sparks of nature / To '''quit''' this horrid act.
#* {{rfdate|en|and other bibliographic particulars and context}}{{w|Edward Fairfax}}
#*: that judge that '''quits''' each soul his hire
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To [[repay]] (someone) for (something).
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|4.14|2|II|xiv}}:
#*: I was but late att a Iustynge / and there I Iusted with a knyghte that is broder vnto kynge Pellam / and twyes smote I hym doune / & thenne he promysed to '''quyte''' me on my best frynde / and so he wounded my sone that can not be hole tyll I haue of that knyghtes blood
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To [[repay]], [[pay back]] (a good deed, injury etc.).
#* '''1590''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', III.v:
#*: Vnthankfull wretch (said he) is this the meed, / With which her soueraigne mercy thou doest '''quight'''?
#* '''1613''', {{w|John Marston}}, William Barksted, ''The Insatiate Countess'', III.2:
#*: Forgive me, Rogero: 'tis my fate / To love thy friend and '''quit''' thy love with hate.
# {{lb|en|reflexive|archaic}} To conduct or [[acquit]] (oneself); to [[behave]] (in a specified way).
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|1 Samuel|4|9}}
#*: Be strong and '''quit''' yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to you: '''quit''' yourselves like men, and fight.
#* {{rfdate|en|and other bibliographic particulars and context}}{{w|John Milton}}
#*: Samson hath '''quit''' himself like Samson.
# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To carry through; to go through to the end.
#* {{rfdate|en|and other bibliographic particulars and context}} {{w|Samuel Daniel}}
#*: Never worthy prince a day did '''quit''' / With greater hazard and with more renown.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To set at rest; to free, as from anything harmful or oppressive; to relieve; to clear; to liberate.
#* {{rfdate|en|and other bibliographic particulars and context}} {{w|William Wake}}
#*: To '''quit''' you of this fear, you have already looked Death in the face; what have you found so terrible in it?
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To release from obligation, accusation, penalty, etc.; to absolve; to acquit.
#* {{rfdate|en|and other bibliographic particulars and context}} {{w|John Milton}}
#*: God will relent, and '''quit''' thee all his debt.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[abandon]], [[renounce]] (a thing).
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[leave]] (a place).
#* {{RQ:Fielding Tom Jones}}
#*: Jones had no sooner '''quitted''' the room, than the petty-fogger, in a whispering tone, asked Mrs Whitefield, “If she knew who that fine spark was?”
# {{lb|en|transitive|intransitive}} To [[resign]] from (a job, office, position, etc.).
#: {{ux|en|After having to work overtime without being paid, I '''quit''' my job.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|intransitive}} To [[stop]], [[give up]] (an activity) (usually + gerund or verbal noun).
#: {{ux|en|John is planning to '''quit''' smoking.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|computing}} To [[close]] (an [[application]]).

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|usually followed by ''[[of]]''}} [[release|Released]] from [[obligation]], [[penalty]], etc; [[free]], [[clear]], or [[rid]].
#* '''1990''', Claude de Bèze, ''[https://books.google.co.th/books/about/1688_revolution_in_Siam.html 1688 revolution in Siam: the memoir of Father de Bèze, s.j]'', translated by E. W. Hutchinson, University Press, page 153:
#*: With mounting anger the King denounced the pair, both father and son, and was about to condemn them to death when his strength gave out. Faint and trembling he was unable to walk and the sword fell from his hands as he murmured: 'May the Protector of the Buddhist Faith grant me but seven more days grace of life to be '''quit''' of this disloyal couple, father and son'.

=====Usage notes=====
* The past tense of ''quit'' is now ''quit'' for most speakers and writers; dictionaries usually allow ''quitted'' as an alternative, but it is rare or nonexistent in North America and Australia, and outnumbered by ''quit'' by about 16 to 1 in the [http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/ British National Corpus]. Quitted is more commonly used to mean “left”. ''e.g., She '''quitted''' her job.''

=====Conjugation=====
{{en-conj|qui|t}}

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites|lang=en}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|quitter}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to leave}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|sortir}}, {{t+|ca|eixir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|走|tr=zǒu|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|離開|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|离开|tr=líkāi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|opustit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verlaten}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|forlasi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lähteä}}, {{t+|fi|poistua}}, {{t+|fi|jättää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quitter}}
* German: {{t+|de|verlassen}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|छोड़ना|tr=choṛnā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|otthagy}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lasciare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|去る|tr=さる, saru|sc=Jpan}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|सोडून जाणे|tr=soḍūna zāṇe|sc=Deva}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sair}}, {{t+|pt|abandonar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pleca}}, {{t+|ro|lăsa}}, {{t+|ro|părăsi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уходи́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|уйти́|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|falbh}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zapustiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|salir}}, {{t+|es|abandonar}}, {{t+|es|dejar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lämna}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|వదలివెళ్ళు}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ออก}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|چھوڑنا|tr=choṛnā|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to give up, stop doing something}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَخَلَّى عَن}}, {{t|ar|تَوَقَّفَ}}
* Armenian: {{t-needed|hy}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|tərgitmək}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|deixar}}, {{t+|ca|aturar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|放棄|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|放弃|tr=fàngqì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přestat}}, {{t+|cs|skončit}}
* Dutch: [[ophouden]] met, [[stoppen]] (met), {{t+|nl|opgeven}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĉesi}}, {{t|eo|rezigni}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lopettaa}}, {{t+|fi|lakata}}, {{t+|fi|luovuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|luopua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|arrêter}}, [[abandonner]] (NOT: [[quitter]])
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufhören}}, {{t+|de|aufgeben}}, {{t|de|sein lassen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|abbahagy}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|smettere}}, {{t+|it|abbandonare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|止める|tr=yameru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|លះបង់|tr=leah bɑŋ|sc=Khmr}}, {{t+|km|ឈប់|tr=cʰup|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|그만두다}}
* Latin: {{t|la|linquo}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakamutu}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|सोडणे|tr=soḍaṇe|sc=Deva}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|slutte}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|parar}}, {{t+|pt|desistir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|броса́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|бро́сить|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|sguir de}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|končati}}, {{t|sl|nehati}}, {{t|sl|obupati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dejar}}, {{t+|es|parar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sluta}}, {{t+|sv|sluta upp}}, {{t+|sv|upphöra}}, {{t|sv|höra upp}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|వదలిపెట్టు}}, {{t|te|వదులుకొను}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เลิก}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|bỏ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to resign}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|辭去|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|辞去|tr=cíqù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|辭職|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|辞职|tr=cízhí|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ottaa lopputili}}, {{t+|fi|erota}}
* German: {{t+|de|kündigen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felmond}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|辞任|tr=じにんする, jinin suru|alt=辞任する|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|辞職|tr=じしょくする, jishoku suru|alt=辞職する|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|辞める|tr=やめる, yameru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ឈប់ពីតំណែង|tr=cʰup pii tɑmnaeŋ|sc=Khmr}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatahi}}, {{t|mi|rīhaina}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|увольня́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|уво́литься|pf}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sluta}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ลาออก}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(Computing) To close an application}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|waiho}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[преставам]] (1), [[спирам]] (1), [[зарязвам]] (2), [[напускам]] (3)
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|keluar}}, {{t+check|id|henti|alt=berhenti}}, {{t+check|id|henti|alt=menghentikan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====References=====
Pam Peters, ''The Cambridge Guide to English Usage'', Cambridge University Press, p. 453.

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of numerous species of small [[passerine]] birds native to [[tropical]] [[America]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|bananaquit}}
* {{l|en|grassquit}}
* {{l|en|orangequit}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|guitguit}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{topics|en|Tanagers}}

----

==French==

===Verb===
{{head|fr|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|fr|quérir||3|s|phis}}

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|quit}}

# {{inflection of|la|queō||3|s|pres|actv|indc}}

----

==Old French==

===Verb===
{{head|fro|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|fro|quidier||1|s|pres|indc}}