{{also|Quiz}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kwɪz/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/kwIz/}}
* {{rhymes|ɪz}}

===Etymology===
The true etymology is unknown.
{{rel-top|proposed etymologies:}}
* (1790) Originally applied to a popular toy, from a dialectal variant of {{term|whiz|lang=en}}.
* Reputed without evidence to have been invented by a late 18th century Dublin theatre proprietor who [[bet]] he could add a new nonsense [[word]] to the English language. He thus had the word painted on walls all over the city. The morning after, everyone was talking about the new word.
* The original meaning is [[interrogation]] (1867), being derived from the verb. Current meaning only since 1941.
* The meaning "hoax" is the original (1796), shifting to the meaning "interrogate" (1847) under the influence of '''to [[question]]''' and '''[[inquisitive]]'''.
* Originally ''quies'' (1847), may have derived from Latin ''qui es?'' (who are you?), traditionally the first question in [[oral]] Latin [[exam]]s. Used as a noun from 1867, spelling quiz first recorded in 1886.
{{rel-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|quizzes}}

# Something designed to [[puzzle]] one or make one ridiculous; [[banter]]; [[raillery]].
# One who or that which quizzes.
# {{context|dated|lang=en}} An odd or absurd person or thing.
#: {{rfquotek|Smart}}
#: {{rfquotek|Thackeray}}
# A [[competition]] in the [[answer]]ing of [[question]]s.
#: ''We came second in the pub '''quiz'''.''
# A school [[examination]] of less importance, or of greater brevity, than others given in the same course.
# A shorter version of a [[test]].  Usually given in a classroom setting.

====Derived terms====
* [[quizzer]]
* [[quizzery]]
* [[quizzical]]
* [[quizzify]]
* [[quizzy]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|competition in the answering of questions}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|vasvrawedstryd}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|測驗|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|测验|tr=cèyàn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|競猜|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|竞猜|tr=jìngcāi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|kvíz|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|quiz|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|quiz}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tietovisa}}, {{t|fi|tietokilpailu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quiz|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Quiz|n}}, {{t|de|Ratespiel|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kvíz}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|quiz|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|クイズ|tr=kuizu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|quiz|m}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|퀴즈|tr=kwijeu|sc=Hang}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|quiz}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|turniej|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quiz|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|викторина|f|tr=viktorína|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|квиз|m|tr=kviz|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|квиз|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|kviz|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|prueba|f}}, {{t|es|quiz|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chemsha bongo}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|frågesport|c}}, {{t|sv|frågespel|n}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thi}}<!--put this on the Vietnamese page: (meaning [[Test#Noun|test]])-->
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a school examination of less importance}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kartkówka|f}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|коро́ткий}} {{t+|ru|тест|m|tr=tɛst|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|контрольная работа|f|tr=kontrólʹnaja rabóta|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|quiz|z|es}}

# {{context|transitive|archaic|lang=en}} To [[hoax]]; to [[chaff]] or [[mock]] with pretended seriousness of discourse; to make sport of, as by obscure questions.
#* Thackeray
#*: He '''quizzed''' unmercifully all the men in the room.
# {{context|transitive|archaic|lang=en}} To peer at; to eye suspiciously or mockingly.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To question closely, to [[interrogate]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hoax}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|шалити се}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|šaliti se}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chemsha bongo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interrogate}}
* German: {{t+|de|ausfragen}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|испитивати}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|ispitivati}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|probar}}, {{t+|es|examinar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English terms with unknown etymologies]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|da}} {{term|quiz|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kvis/|[kʰvis]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|stem=quizz|en|er}}

# {{l|en|quiz}} {{gloss|competition in the answering of questions}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=quizz|en|er|4=quiz'}}

====Related terms====
* [[quizze]] ("to [[quiz#English|quiz]]")

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-quiz.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|quizzen|quizje}}

# {{l|en|quiz}}

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# {{l|en|quiz}}

====Derived terms====
* [[telequiz]]

----

==Jèrriais==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|roa-jer}} {{term|quiz|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{roa-jer-noun|m}}

# [[#English|quiz]]

[[da:quiz]]
[[et:quiz]]
[[el:quiz]]
[[fa:quiz]]
[[fr:quiz]]
[[ko:quiz]]
[[hr:quiz]]
[[io:quiz]]
[[id:quiz]]
[[it:quiz]]
[[kn:quiz]]
[[sw:quiz]]
[[hu:quiz]]
[[mg:quiz]]
[[ml:quiz]]
[[my:quiz]]
[[nl:quiz]]
[[ja:quiz]]
[[pl:quiz]]
[[pt:quiz]]
[[ru:quiz]]
[[simple:quiz]]
[[fi:quiz]]
[[sv:quiz]]
[[ta:quiz]]
[[te:quiz]]
[[tr:quiz]]
[[vi:quiz]]
[[zh:quiz]]