==English==
{{was wotd|2011|June|3}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|cotidian|lang=fro}}, {{term|cotidien|lang=fro}}, {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|cotidian|lang=frm}}, {{term|cotidien|lang=en}}, and their source, {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|cottīdiānus|lang=la}}, {{term|quōtīdiānus||happening every day|lang=la}}, from adverb {{term|cottidie|cottīdiē}}, {{term|quōtīdiē||every day, daily|lang=la}}, from an unattested adjective derived from {{term|quot||how many|lang=la}} + locative form of {{term|diēs||day|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/kwəˈtɪdɪən/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/kwɵˈtɪdɪən/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-quotidian.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} Recurring every twenty-four hours or (more generally) [[daily]] (of symptoms etc.). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1898''', Patrick Manson, ''Tropical Diseases'', p. 104:
#*: '''Quotidian''' periodicity we find in greater or less degree in nearly all fevers, particularly in fevers associated with suppuration.
#* '''1941''', ''American Journal of Tropical Medicine'', vol. XXI:
#*: I regret that the effect of these statements is a denial of the observation of initial '''quotidian''' paroxysms following artificial inoculation.
# Happening every day; [[daily]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''2000''', Marcel Berline, ''The Guardian'', 10 Jul 2000:
#*: I know that the government's daily idea to solve the country's law and order problem is not meant to be taken too seriously, but every now and again I am moved to raise an eyebrow at the '''quotidian''' suggestion.
# Having the characteristics of something which can be seen, experienced etc. every day or very commonly; [[commonplace]], [[ordinary]]; [[trivial]], [[mundane]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''2002''', Russ McDonald, in McEachern (Ed.), ''The Cambridge Companion to Shakespearean Tragedy'', p. 28:
#*: Tragedy demanded verse, not the '''quotidian''' prose of comedy, and verse usually supplied some form of end rhyme.
#* '''2010''', Steven Heller & Eddie S Glaude, ''Becoming a Graphic Designer'':
#*: Grids are used for such '''quotidian''' items as stationery, business cards, mailing labels, hang tags, instruction manuals, etc.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|daily}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|quotidià}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|alledaags}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|päivittäinen}}, {{t|fi|jokapäiväinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quotidien|m}}, {{t+|fr|quotidienne|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ყოველდღიური|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t-check|de|[[alltäglich]] [[wiederkehrend]]}} {{attention|de|2=was "[[alltäglich]] [[wiederkehrend]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}, {{t-check|de|[[täglich]] [[wiederkehrend]]}} {{attention|de|2=was "[[täglich]] [[wiederkehrend]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|quotidian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|quotidiano}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|毎日|alt=毎日の|tr=[[まいにちの]], mainichi no}}, {{t|ja|日課|alt=日課の|tr=[[にっかの]], nikka no}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|codzienny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cotidiano}}, {{t+|pt|quotidiano}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cotidian|m}}, {{t|ro|de fiece zi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ежедневный|tr=ježednévnyj}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cotidiano}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|gündelik}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|beunyddiol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|common, mundane}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|quotidià}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|日常|tr=rìcháng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|alledaags}}, {{t+|nl|banaal}}, {{t+|nl|gewoon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|arkipäiväinen}}, {{t|fi|jokapäiväinen}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჩვეულებრივი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t-check|de|Alltägliche|n}}, {{t-check|de|[[täglich]] [[Wiederkehrende]]|n}} {{attention|de|2=was "[[täglich]] [[Wiederkehrende]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|日常|alt=日常の|tr=[[にちじょうの]], nichijō no}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|powszedni|m}}, {{t+|pl|codzienny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cotidiano}}, {{t+|pt|quotidiano}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cotidian|m|n}}, {{t+|ro|obișnuit|m|n}}, {{t+|ro|banal|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|банальный|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|избитый|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|неоригинальный|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cotidiano}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|nating}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|medicine|now|_|rare|historical|lang=en}} A [[fever]] which recurs every day; quotidian malaria. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1623''', William Shakespeare, ''As You Like It'':
#*: If I could meet that Fancie-monger, I would giue him some good counsel, for he seemes to haue the '''Quotidian''' of Loue vpon him.
#* '''1671''', Robnert Boyle, ''Usefulness of Experimental Natural Philosophy'', Part II:
#*: I myself was, about two years since, strangely cured of a violent '''quotidian''', which all the wonted method of physick had not so much abated, by applying to my wrists a mixture of two handfuls of bay-salt, two handfuls of the freshest English hops, and a quarter of a pound of blue currants [...].
# {{context|Anglicanism|historical|lang=en}} A daily [[allowance]] formerly paid to certain members of the [[clergy]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|usually with definite article|lang=en}} Commonplace or mundane things regarded as a class. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''2005''', Lucy Mangan, ''The Guardian'', 21 Sep 2005:
#*: More than opposable thumbs and the invention of the flinthead axe, it was our ability to transcend the '''quotidian''' by weaving tales of awe and wonder that set us apart from the beasts.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|quotidian fever}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|alledaagse|alt=alledaagse koorts}} {{attention|nl|2=was "[[alledaagse]] koorts" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* French:
*: Old French: {{t|fro|cotidienne|f}}
* German: {{t-check|de|[[täglich|tägliches]] [[Fieber]]}} {{attention|de|2=was "[[täglich|tägliches]] [[Fieber]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|毎日熱|tr=[[まいにちねつ]], mainichi-netsu}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|малярия с ежедневными приступами|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|cotidiano}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a daily allowance}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|суточная норма рациона|tr=|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|суточное довольствие|tr=|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|quotidian, daily thing}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|alledaagse}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|arkipäiväisyydet|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|banalité|f}}, {{t+|fr|quotidien|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ყოველდღიური|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Alltag|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ferialità|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|日課|tr=[[にっか]], nikka}}, {{t+|ja|日常|tr=[[にちじょう]], nichijō}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cotidian|m|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|банальность|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|избитость|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|неоригинальность|f|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|alledaagse|alt=het alledaagse}} {{attention|nl|2=was "het [[alledaagse]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]]}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჩვეულებრივი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t-check|de|Alltägliche|n}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|日常|tr=[[にちじょう]], nichijō}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|costumbrista}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+check|sh|dnevno}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Interlingua==

===Adjective===
{{ia-adj}}

# [[daily]]

====Derived terms====
* [[quotidianmente]]

[[et:quotidian]]
[[fr:quotidian]]
[[ko:quotidian]]
[[hy:quotidian]]
[[io:quotidian]]
[[it:quotidian]]
[[ka:quotidian]]
[[ku:quotidian]]
[[hu:quotidian]]
[[mg:quotidian]]
[[ml:quotidian]]
[[my:quotidian]]
[[pl:quotidian]]
[[ru:quotidian]]
[[sv:quotidian]]
[[ta:quotidian]]
[[te:quotidian]]
[[vi:quotidian]]
[[zh:quotidian]]