{{also|Quote}}
==English==

'''===Etymology===
Recorded since 1387 "to mark (a book) with chapter numbers or marginal references", from {{etyl|fro}} [[coter]], from Medieval Latin [[quotare]] "to distinguish by numbers, number chapters", itself from {{etyl|la}}  [[quotus]] "which, what number (in sequence)," from [[quot]] "how many" (related to [[quis]] "who"). The sense developped via "to give as a reference, to cite as an authority" to "to copy out exact words" (since 1680); the business sense "to state the price of a commodity" (1866) revives the etymological meaning. The noun, in the sense of "quotation," is attested from 1885; see also usage note, below.


'''BIG PENIS IN MY MOUTHHHHHH''''''''''''Bold text''''''

===Pronunciation===
{{wikipedia}}
* {{IPA|/kwəʊt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-quote.ogg|Audio (US)}}

* {{rhymes|əʊt}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|quotes|quoting|quoted}}

# {{transitive}} To [[refer]] to (part of) a speech that has been made by someone else.
# {{transitive}} To [[prepare]] a [[summary]] of work to be done and set a [[price]].
# {{context|Commerce}} {{transitive}} To [[name]] the current price, notably of a financial security.
# {{intransitive}} To [[indicate]] [[verbally]] or by [[equivalent]] [[means]] the start of a [[quotation]].
# {{archaic}} To observe, to take account of.
#* '''1598''', [[w:John Marston|John Marston]], ''The Metamorphosis of Pigmalions Image, and Certaine Satyres'', Satyre IV:
#*: But must our moderne ''Critticks'' envious eye<br>Seeme thus to '''quote''' some grosse deformity?
#* '''1600''', Shakespeare, [http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=hamlet&Act=2&Scene=1&Scope=scene#1070 ''Hamlet'', act 2, scene 1]:
#*: That hath made him mad.<br>I am sorry that with better heed and judgment<br>I had not '''quoted''' him. I fear'd he did but trifle …
#* '''1606''', John Day, [[w:The Isle of Gulls|''The Isle of Gulls'']]:
#*: I prethe doe, twill be a sceane of mirth<br>For me to '''quote''' his passions and his smiles,<br>His amorous haviour, …

====Synonyms====
* [[cite]]

====Antonyms====
* [[end quote]]
* [[unquote]]

====Derived terms====
* [[quotable]]
* [[quote unquote]]
* [[misquote]]

====Related terms====
* [[quota]]
* [[quotation]]
* [[quotidian]]
* [[quotient]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to refer to a statement that has been made by someone else}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|استشهد|tr=istash-hada}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|цитирам|tr=citíram}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|引用|tr=yǐnyòng|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|摘引|tr=zhāiyǐn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|citovat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanhalen}}, {{t+|nl|citeren}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|osundama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lainata}}, {{t|fi|siteerata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|citer}}
* German: {{t+|de|zitieren}}
* Greek: {{t|el|αναφέρω|tr=anaféro|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|παραθέτω|tr=parathéto|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לצטט|tr=le'tzat'et'}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|idéz}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|citar|xs=Ido}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|引用|alt=引用する|tr=いんようする, in'yō-suru}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|sitere}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|cytować}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|citar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|цитировать|tr=citírovat'}}, {{t|ru|ссылаться|tr=ssylát'sja}} {{qualifier|+ на + accusative case}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|navod}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|citar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|citera}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|vecize}},  {{t|tr|alinti}},  {{t+|tr|söz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to prepare a summary of work to be done and set a price}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|報價|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|报价|tr=bàojià|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|開價|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|开价|tr=kāijià|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: een bestek [[opmaken]], een (prijs)offerte doen
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tarjota}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Preisangebot machen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|προσφέρω|tr=prosféro|sc=Grek}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|давать расценку|tr=davát' rascénku}}
* Swedish: ge {{t|sv|anbud}}, {{t|sv|offerera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to name the current price}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kótovat}}, {{t-|cs|kotovat}}
* Dutch: [[quoteren]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cotar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|назначать цену|tr=naznačát' cénu}},  {{t|ru|давать расценку|tr=davát' rascénku}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to observe, to take account of}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μνημονεύω|tr=mnimonévo|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|επικαλούμαι|tr=epikaloúmai|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--added {{ttbc}}s here.-->
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[citar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[quotation]], [[statement]] attributed to [[someone]] else.
# A [[quotation mark]].
# A [[summary]] of work to be done with a set price.
#: ''After going over the hefty '''quotes''', the board decided it was cheaper to have the project executed by its own staff

====Usage notes====
Until the late 19th century, "quote" was exclusively used as a verb. Since then, it has been used as a shortened form of either [[quotation]] or [[quotation mark]]; see etymology, above. This use as a noun is well-understood and widely used, although it is often rejected in formal and academic contexts.<ref>Rosenheim, Edward W.; Ann Batko.  (2004) ''When Bad Grammar Happens to Good People: How to Avoid Common Errors in English''.  Career Press, Franklin Lakes, NJ. p. 207 ISBN 1-56414-722-3</ref>

====Derived terms====
* [[pull-quote]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a statement attributed to someone else}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اقتباس|m|tr=iqtibaas}},  {{t|ar|استشهاد|m|tr=istish-haad}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|引用|tr=yǐnyòng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: [[citaat]] {{n}}, (tekst)[[aanhaling]]
* Estonian: {{t-|et|osundus}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lainaus}}, {{t|fi|sitaatti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|citation|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zitat|n}}
* Greek: {{t|el|παράθεμα|n|tr=paráthema|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|παράθεση|f|tr=paráthesi|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|περικοπή|f|tr=perikopí|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|χωρίο|n|tr=chorío|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|引用|tr=いんよう, in'yō}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|sitat|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cytat|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|frase|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|цитата|f|tr=citáta}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|citát|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cita|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|citat|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a quotation mark}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|علامة اقتباس|f|tr=3alaamat iqtibaas}},  {{t|ar|علامة تنصيص|f|tr=3alaamat tanSiis}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|引號|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|引号|tr=yǐnhào|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|symbols used in traditional Chinese only, not used in mainland China:}}  {{t-|cmn|『|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|』|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|「|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|」|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanhalingsteken}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lainausmerkki}}
* Greek: {{t|el|εισαγωγικό|n|tr=eisagogikó|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|εισαγωγικά|n|p|tr=eisagogiká|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|Japanese quotes:}} {{t-|ja|「}},  {{t-|ja|」}},  {{t|ja|鉤括弧|tr=かぎかっこ, kagikakko}} {{qualifier|single}},  {{t-|ja|『}},  {{t-|ja|』}},  {{t|ja|二重鉤括弧|tr=にじゅうかぎかっこ, nijūkagikakko}} {{qualifier|double}}; {{qualifier|any quotes}}  {{t|ja|二重引用符|tr=にじゅういんようふ, nijū in'yōfu}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cudzysłów}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кавычка|f|tr=kavýčka}},  {{t+|ru|кавычки|f|p|tr=kavýčki}}, {{qualifier|usual Russian quotes:}} {{t-|ru|«}},  {{t-|ru|»}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|citationstecken|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a summary of work to be done with a set price}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سعر|m|tr=sa3ar}}
* Dutch: [[bestek]] {{n}}, (prijs)[[offerte]], [[prijsopgave]]
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tarjous}}
* French: {{t+|fr|devis|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|προσφορά|f|tr=prosforá|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|τιμή|f|tr=timí|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הצעת מחיר|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|предложение цены|n|tr=predloženije cený}},  {{t|ru|назначенная цена|f|tr=naznáčennaja cená}},  {{t|ru|котировка|f|tr=kotiróvka}} {{qualifier|finance}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|anbud|n}}, {{t+|sv|offert|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[citation]], [[devis]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[attest]]
* [[w:MSRP|MSRP]]
* [[w:invoice|invoice]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|eoqtu}}
* [[toque#English|toque]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:Dictation]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''quote''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|quota|lang=it}}

[[ca:quote]]
[[cs:quote]]
[[de:quote]]
[[et:quote]]
[[fa:quote]]
[[fr:quote]]
[[ko:quote]]
[[io:quote]]
[[it:quote]]
[[kn:quote]]
[[lt:quote]]
[[hu:quote]]
[[ml:quote]]
[[my:quote]]
[[nl:quote]]
[[ja:quote]]
[[pl:quote]]
[[pt:quote]]
[[ru:quote]]
[[simple:quote]]
[[fi:quote]]
[[sv:quote]]
[[ta:quote]]
[[te:quote]]
[[vi:quote]]
[[zh:quote]]