==English==
{{was wotd|2008|May|4}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|palpable|lang=frm}} and its source, {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|palpābilis|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈpalpəbəl/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|păl'pə-bəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈpælpəbəl/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/pALp@bL:/}}
* {{audio|en-us-palpable.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Capable of being [[touch]]ed haha!, [[felt]] or [[handle]]d; [[touchable]], [[tangible]].
#* {{circa|1600}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Hamlet'', act 5, sc. 2:
#*: ''Osric:'' A hit, a very '''palpable''' hit.
#* '''1838''', {{w|Edgar Allan Poe}}, "Ligeia":
#*: I had felt that some '''palpable''' although invisible object had passed lightly by my person.
#* '''1894''', {{w|Bret Harte}}, "The Heir of the McHulishes" in ''A Protegee of Jack Hamlin's and Other Stories'':
#*: The next morning the fog had given way to a '''palpable''', horizontally driving rain.
# [[obvious|Obvious]] or [[easily]] [[perceived]]; [[noticeable]].
#* '''1913''', {{w|Sax Rohmer}}, ''The Insidious Dr. Fu Manchu'' ch. 24:
#*: Her voice, her '''palpable''' agitation, prepared us for something extraordinary.
#* '''1916''', {{w|Kathleen Norris}}, ''The Heart of Rachael'', ch. 7:
#*: No use in raging, in reasoning, in arguing. No use in setting forth the facts, the '''palpable''' right and wrong.
# {{context|medicine|lang=en}} That can be [[detect]]ed by [[palpation]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|capable of being touched}} [[tangible]], [[touchable]]
* {{sense|obvious or easily perceived}} [[manifest]], [[noticeable]], [[patent]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|capable of being touched}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|palpable}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|tastbaar}}
* French: {{t+|fr|palpable}}
* German: {{t+|de|greifbar}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tapintható}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|palpabile}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|palpābilis}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|осязаемый|sc=Cyrl|tr=osjazájemyj}}, {{t+|ru|ощутимый|sc=Cyrl|tr=oščutímyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|palpable}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obvious}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|palpable}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zřejmý}}
* Dutch: [[te snijden]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|selvä}}, {{t-|fi|kouriintuntuva}}, {{t-|fi|käsinkosketeltava}}
* French: {{t+|fr|palpable}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|érzékelhető}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|evidente}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|очевидный|sc=Cyrl|tr=očevídnyj}}, {{t+|ru|явный|sc=Cyrl|tr=jávnyj}}, {{t+|ru|ясный|sc=Cyrl|tr=jásnyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|palpable}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that can be detected by palpation}}
* Dutch: [[palpeerbaar]]
* Finnish: [[tunnustelu|tunnustelemalla]] [[havaittava]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|прощупываемый|sc=Cyrl|tr=proščúpyvajemyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|palpābilis|lang=la}}.

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|mf}}

# {{l|en|palpable}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|palpābilis|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/palpabl/|lang=fr}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj|mf}}

# {{l|en|palpable}}

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj}}

# {{l|en|palpable}}

[[et:palpable]]
[[el:palpable]]
[[es:palpable]]
[[fr:palpable]]
[[gl:palpable]]
[[ko:palpable]]
[[hr:palpable]]
[[io:palpable]]
[[id:palpable]]
[[kn:palpable]]
[[lt:palpable]]
[[hu:palpable]]
[[ml:palpable]]
[[my:palpable]]
[[pl:palpable]]
[[fi:palpable]]
[[sv:palpable]]
[[ta:palpable]]
[[te:palpable]]
[[vi:palpable]]
[[zh:palpable]]