[[Category:Move to Wiktionary 2007-09]]
In [[motocross]] terminology, a '''panic rev''' refers to the airborne engine revving a rider does if the front wheel of the bike is too low after executing a jump. The purpose of the panic rev is to [[accelerate]] the rotation of the rear tire, thereby raising the front end of the bike.

{{unreferenced|date=September 2007}} 
{{Importance|date=September 2007}}
[[Category:Motorcycle sport]]
In motocross terminology, a Panic Rev is something a rider does in mid air if they are nose low as they go over a jump. The rider does this in hopes of the rotation and acceleration of the rear tire helping them raise the nose of their bike. If you have ever experienced going over a double nose down, you know all about the panic within you as you franticly rev out your engine. In addition, the name PanicRev represents the urgency, "Panic," for revolution, "Rev." We strongly believe that we are living in the "last days" that the Bible prophesied thousands of years ago. Jesus Christ is coming. When? I can not say, but it could very well be today or tomorrow. Now is not the time to be playing spiritual games. PanicRev represents the urgency we all should have to revolutionize our own lives in obedience to Jesus Christ. We all need a revolution not only to take place within our own hearts, minds, and souls, but in the hearts, minds and souls of the people around us; so we may all inherit the Kingdom of God. PanicRev is a name that we hope and pray will be a reminder to all of us of the urgency to reach outward in addition to reaching inward!

http://panicrev.org/rev_v2/about-us.html