{{also|pan-sexual}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{af|en|pan-|-sexual}}. First attested in 1926 (with ''[[pansexualism]]'' attested since 1917), as a descriptor of the psychological theory that all human activity is based on [[sexuality]].<ref>{{R:Etymonline}}</ref><ref>{{R:Dictionary.com}}</ref><ref>{{R:MWO}}</ref> Used to describe a [[sexual orientation]] since at least the 1970s.<!--see citations page-->

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|en|/pænˈsɛkʃuəl/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Sexually attracted to people regardless of [[gender]].
#: {{cot|en|asexual|bisexual|heterosexual|homosexual}}
#* '''1970&ndash;1972''' (printed in compiled form in 1973), ''Ramparts'', page 25: 
#*: Karen and Carlos are definitely '''pansexual''' people who have paired off to have this child, and this seems real and good to them now. When I had been with Karen, she had floated through several gay relationships, {{...}} all my friends had been what I would call '''pansexual''', avoiding the older term bisexual, which is meaningless when you can count more than two sexes.
#* '''1979''', Karla Jay, Allen Young, ''The Gay Report: Lesbians and Gay Men Speak Out'':
#*: Obviously many women who answered the survey considered themselves bisexual in the past no longer do. Perceiving oneself as bisexual was often a stage of transition between heterosexuality and homosexuality. But others did consider and still consider themselves bisexual. Here are some stories of bisexual or '''pansexual''' women and some comments about [...]
#* {{quote-journal|en|1995<!--|October 11-->|Owen McNally|The Vigor, Venom and Wit of Gore Vidal|Hartford Courant|page=E1|url=http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/courant/access/22919641.html?dids=22919641:22919641&FMT=ABS|passage=As a writer/sexologist, he argues that people are neither homosexual nor heterosexual but '''pansexual'''.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|1999<!--|November-->|Steven Drukman|Cumming Attraction|Out|page=82|url=https://books.google.com/books?id=PWIEAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA82&lpg=PA82&dq=alan+cumming+pansexual|passage=CUMMING: Bisexual, I suppose... No, '''pansexual'''. Some bloke in a newspaper called me a "frolicky '''pansexual''' sex symbol for the new millennium." I thought that was fabulous.}}
# Sexually attracted to everyone.
#* {{quote-book|en|2004|John Leland|Hip: The History|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=oxzubo1GS7oC|isbn=0060528176|page=50|passage=To the end he [Walt Whitman] denied that he was homosexual; his writings are '''pansexual''', finding carnal ripeness in the soul, in nature, as well as in men and women.}}
# Welcoming people of all sexual orientations.
#* {{quote-book|en|1998|Dossie Easton & Catherine A. Liszt|The Ethical Slut|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=I0OwAAAAIAAJ|isbn=1890159018|page=262
|passage=We like to attend '''pansexual''' group sex parties, which means that attendees may identify as gay or lesbian or bisexual or hetero or transgendered, but are generally comfortable and happy to play side-by-side with people whose desires may be entirely different than their own.}}
# {{lb|en|psychology}} Pertaining to the psychological theory of [[pansexualism]].

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|en|pan-sexual}}

====Derived terms====
{{der2|en
|pansexuality
|pansexually}}

====Related terms====
{{rel4|en
|[[pansexualism]], [[pansexualist]]
|[[pansexualize]], [[pansexualization]]
|panromantic
|pan-curious}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Someone who is attracted to all types of people regardless of [[gender]].

====Usage notes====
* Some people<!--, especially [[transgender]] and [[non-binary]] people and people who are [[attract]]ed to them,--> prefer this term to ''[[bisexual]]'' because of its acknowledgement of more than two genders.<ref>Nancy L. Fischer, Steven Seidman, ''Introducing the New Sexuality Studies'' (2016, {{ISBN|1317449185}}), page 219</ref><ref>Laura Erickson-Schroth, ''Trans Bodies, Trans Selves: A Resource for the Transgender Community'' (2014, {{ISBN|0199325367}})</ref> Some other people dislike this term, either because they feel there ''are'' only two genders or they feel ''bisexual'' includes more than two genders,<ref>Lani Ka’ahumanu,  Loraine Hutchins, ''Bi Any Other Name: Bisexual People Speak Out'' (2015, {{ISBN|1626011982}})</ref> or they dislike the [[polysemy]] of ''pansexual''. Similar arguments are made about the less common term {{m|en|omnisexual}}.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|someone who is attracted to all genders}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ĉiuseksema}}, {{t|eo|ajnseksema}}
* German: {{t+|de|pansexuell}}, {{t+|de|pan}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ilghnéasach|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|пансексуалды}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|panseksuell}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|panseksualny}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pansexuell}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{list:sexual orientations/en}}
* {{l|en|gender-blind}}
* {{l|en|pangender}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:People]]
[[Category:en:Sexual orientations]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{af|ca|pan-|sexual}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{ca-IPA}}

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|mf}}

# {{l|en|pansexual}}

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|mf}}

# {{l|en|pansexual}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ca|pansexualitat}}

[[Category:ca:Sexual orientations]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|ro|en|pansexual}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|ro|/ˌpan.sek.suˈal/}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj|4}}

# {{l|en|pansexual}}

====Declension====
{{ro-adj-4}}

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|m|pansexuali}}

# {{l|en|pansexual}}

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-m}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|ro|pansexualitate}}

[[Category:ro:Sexual orientations]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{af|es|pan-|sexual}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{es-IPA}}

===Adjective===
{{es-adj}}

# [[#English|pansexual]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|es|pansexualidad}}