==English==
{{was wotd|2011|April|17}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|Paphius}} (from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|Πάφος||{{w|Paphos}}}}) + English {{m|en|-an}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈpeɪfɪən/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-Paphian.wav |Audio (UK)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|literary}} Pertaining to [[love]] or [[sexual]] desire, especially when [[illicit]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#*'''1613''', {{w|John Marston}}, William Barksted, ''The Insatiate Countess'', III.4:
#*:Cease admiration, sit to Cupid's feast, / The preparation to '''Paphian''' dalliance.
#* '''1873''', Anonymous ([[w:William Simpson Potter|William Potter]]), [[w:William Lazenby|William Lazenby]] (publisher), ''[[s:Romance of Lust/Volume I|The Romance of Lust; or, Early Experiences]]'', Volume I,
#*: I lay, as it were, in the '''Paphian''' bower of bliss, in a state of exquisite sensations quite impossible to describe.
#* '''1906''', O. Henry, ''[[s:Man About Town|Man About Town]]''
#*: People passed, but they held me not. '''Paphian''' eyes rayed upon me, and left me unscathed.
# Of or relating to [[Paphos]], the mythical birthplace of the goddess of love on the island of [[Cyprus]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''1720''', [[w:Homer|Homer]], [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]] (translator), ''[[s:The Iliad of Homer/Book III|The Iliad]]'', Book III,
#*: Then thus incensed, the '''Paphian''' queen replies: / "Obey the power from whom thy glories rise: / Should Venus leave thee, every charm must fly, / Fade from thy cheek, and languish in thy eye. / Cease to provoke me, lest I make thee more / The world’s aversion, than their love before; / Now the bright prize for which mankind engage, / Than, the sad victim, of the public rage."
#* '''1791''', [[w:Homer|Homer]], [[w:William Cowper|William Cowper]] (translator), ''[[s:The Odyssey of Homer (Cowper)/Book VIII|The Odyssey]]'', Book VIII,
#*: So saying, the might of Vulcan loos’d the snare, / And they, detain’d by those coercive bands / No longer, from the couch upstarting, flew, / Mars into Thrace, and to her '''Paphian''' home / The Queen of smiles, where deep in myrtle groves / Her incense-breathing altar stands embow’r’d.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|pertaining to love or sexual desire, especially when illicit}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|распу́тный|tr=}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of or relating to Paphos}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|-lainen|alt=paphoslainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|pafio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|literary}} A [[prostitute]].
#* '''1824''', [[w:Lord Byron|Lord Byron]], ''[[s:Don Juan (Byron)/Canto the Eleventh|Don Juan]]'', Canto the Eleventh, XXX,
#*: They reach'd the hotel: forth stream'd from the front door / A tide of well-clad waiters, and around / The mob stood, and as usual several score / Of those pedestrian '''Paphians''' who abound / In decent London when the daylight's o'er; / Commodious but immoral, they are found / Useful, like Malthus, in promoting marriage.
# A resident of [[Paphos]].
#* '''1854''', [[w:Athenaeus|Athenaeus of Naucratis]], Charles Duke Yonge (translator), ''The Deipnosophists; or, Banquet of the Learned'', [http://digicoll.library.wisc.edu/cgi-bin/Literature/Literature-idx?id=Literature.AthV2 Volume II], page 777,
#*: Then there is the mastus. Apollodorus the Cyrenæan, as Pamphilus says, states that this is a name given to drinking-cups by the '''Paphians'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(literary) a prostitute}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kurtisaani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|куртиза́нка|f|tr=}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|resident of Paphos}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|-lainen|alt=paphoslainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}