==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|parallèle|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|παράλληλος|lang=grc}}, from [[παρά]] + [[ἄλληλος]], along each other

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|păr'ə-lĕl"}}, {{IPA|/ˈpæɹəlɛl/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-ne-parallel.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}} {{a|non-Mary-marry-merry}}
* {{audio|en-us-parallel.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}} {{a|Mary-marry-merry}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[equally|Equally]] [[distant]] from one another at all points.
#: ''The horizontal lines on my notebook paper are '''parallel'''.''
#* Hakluyt
#*: revolutions {{...}} '''parallel''' to the equinoctial
# Having the same overall [[direction]]; the comparison is indicated with "to".
#: ''The railway line runs '''parallel''' to the road.''
#: ''The two railway lines are '''parallel'''.''
#* Addison
#*: When honour runs '''parallel''' with the laws of God and our country, it cannot be too much cherished.
# {{context|hyperbolic geometry|lang=en}} ''said of a pair of lines:'' that they either do not [[intersect]] or they [[coincide]]<ref>[http://www.josleys.com/article_show.php?id=83 Jos Leys &mdash; ''The hyperbolic chamber''] (paragraph 8)</ref>
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} Involving the [[processing]] of [[multiple]] [[tasks]] at the same time
#: ''a '''parallel''' algorithm''

====Antonyms====
* [[perpendicular]], [[skew]], [[serial]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|equally distant from one another at all points}}
* Arabic: {{i|indefinite}} {{t|ar|مُوَازٍ}}, {{i|definite}} {{t|ar|المُوَازِي}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զուգահեռ}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|paral·lel}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|平行|tr=píngxíng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rovnoběžný|m}}, {{t|cs|paralélní}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|evenwijdig}}, {{t+|nl|parallel}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|paralela}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|rööpne}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yhdensuuntainen}}, {{t|fi|samansuuntainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|parallèle}}
* German: {{t+|de|parallel}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλος|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מקבילים|m-p|tr=makbilím}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|समानान्तर}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|párhuzamos}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|paralel}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|parallelo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|平行|alt=平行の|tr=へいこうの, heikō-no}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|평행의|sc=Hang}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|selari}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakarara}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|parallell}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|równoległy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|paralelo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|paralel}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́льный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|paralelo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|parallell}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having the same overall direction}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զուգահեռ}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|paral·lel}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rovnoběžný}}, {{t|cs|paralélní}}
* Dutch: [[evenwijdig]] [[met]]/[[aan]], {{t+|nl|parallel}} {{t+|nl|met}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|rööpne}}
* Finnish: ''genitive +'' {{t|fi|suuntainen}}; {{t|fi|samansuuntainen}}, {{t+|fi|rinnakkainen}} (''jonkin [[kanssa]]'')
* French: {{t+|fr|parallèle}} {{t+|fr|à}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|parallel}} {{t+|de|zu}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλος|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מקביל|tr=makbíl|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|paralel}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|selari}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|parallell}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|paralelo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|paralel}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́льный}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|parallell}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: processing multipe tasks at the same time}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|paralélní}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rinnakkainen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|samhliða|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|parallell}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|paralelo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|paralel}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́льный}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[సమాంతరము]] (samaaMtaramu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# With a parallel relationship.
#: The road runs '''parallel''' with the canal.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|parallelly}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|with a parallel relationship}}
* Finnish: ''genitive +'' {{t|fi|suuntaisesti}}; {{t|fi|samansuuntaisesti}} (''jonkun [[kanssa]]'')
* French: {{t+|fr|parallèlement}}
* German: {{t+|de|parallel}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλα}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|parallelamente}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|parallelt}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|równolegle}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|paralelamente}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́льно}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One of a set of parallel [[line]]s.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: Who made the spider '''parallels''' design, / Sure as De Moivre, without rule or line?
# Direction conformable to that of another line.
#* Garth
#*: lines that from their '''parallel''' decline
# A line of [[latitude]].
#: ''The 31st '''parallel''' passes through the center of my town.''
# An arrangement of [[electrical]] [[component]]s such that a [[current]] flows along two or more paths; see [[in parallel]].
# Something identical or similar in essential respects.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: None but thyself can be thy '''parallel'''.
# A comparison made; elaborate tracing of similarity.
#: ''Johnson's '''parallel''' between Dryden and Pope''
# {{context|military|lang=en}} One of a series of long trenches constructed before a besieged fortress, by the besieging force, as a cover for troops supporting the attacking batteries. They are roughly parallel to the line of outer defenses of the fortress.
# {{context|printing|lang=en}} A character consisting of two parallel vertical lines, used in the text to direct attention to a similarly marked note in the margin or at the foot of a page.

====Antonyms====
* [[perpendicular]], [[skew]] (?)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one of a set of parallel lines}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զուգահեռ}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|平行線|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|平行线|tr=píngxíngxiàn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rovnoběžka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|evenwijdige|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|paralelo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|parallèle|m|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Parallele|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλος}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מקביל|m|tr=makbíl}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|párhuzamos vonal}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|並列|tr=[[へいれつ]], heiretsu|sc=Jpan}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakarara}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|parallell|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|paralela|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́ль|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|line of latitude}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զուգահեռական}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|緯綫|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|纬线|tr=wěixiàn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|緯圈|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|纬圈|tr=wěiquān|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rovnoběžka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|breedtegraad|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leveyspiiri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|parallèle|m|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Breitengrad|m}}, {{t|de|Breitenkreis|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράλληλος}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|קו רוחב|m|tr=káv rókhav}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szélességi fok}}, {{t|hu|szélességi kör}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|緯線|tr=いせん, isen|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|breddegrad|m}}, {{t|nb|breddegradssirkel|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|nn|breiddegrad|m}}, {{t|nn|breidegradssirkel|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|równoleżnik|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|paralelo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паралле́ль|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|parallels|paralleling|pres_ptc_qual=US|pres_ptc2=parallelling|pres_ptc2_qual=UK|paralleled|past_qual=US|past2=parallelled|past2_qual=UK}}

# To [[construct]] or [[place]] something parallel to something else.
#* Sir Thomas Browne
#*: The needle {{...}} doth '''parallel''' and place itself upon the true meridian.
# Of a path etc: To be parallel to something else.
# Of a process etc: To be [[analogous]] to something else.
# To [[compare]] or [[liken]] something to something else.
# To make to conform to something else in character, motive, aim, etc.
#* Shakespeare
#*: His life is '''parallelled''' / Even with the stroke and line of his great justice.
# To equal; to match; to correspond to.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
# To produce or adduce as a parallel.
#* Shakespeare
#*: My young remembrance cannot '''parallel''' / A fellow to it.
#: {{rfquotek|John Locke}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to construct or place something parallel to something else}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|갋다|tr=galbda, gap-}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a path etc: to be parallel to something else}}
* Finnish: [[olla#Finnish|olla]] {{t|fi|samansuuntainen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הִקְבִּיל|tr=hikbíl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|나란하다|tr=naran-hada}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a process etc: to be analogous to something else}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|나란하다|tr=naran-hada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|liknas vid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to compare or liken something to something else}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|rinnastaa}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παραλληλίζω}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|השווה|tr=hishvá|alt=השווה \ הִשְׁוָה}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|견주다|tr=gyeonjuda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adjective, adverb, noun, or verb ''parallel''}}
* [[embarrassingly parallel]]<!--computer science-->
* [[forty-ninth parallel]]
* [[parallel algorithm]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[parallel circuit]]
* [[parallel computing]]
* [[parallelism]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[parallelogram]]
* [[parallel universe]]
* [[unparalleled]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[sequential]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Geospatial science]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-parallel.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|-}}

# [[#English|parallel]]

====Declension====
{{nl-decl-adj|parallelle|-}}

====Synonyms====
* [[evenwijdig]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|De-parallel.ogg|Audio|lang=de}}

===Adjective===
{{de-adj|-}}

# [[parallel#English|parallel]]
#: ''Die Linien meines Schreibpapiers laufen exakt parallel.''
#: ''Die eine Bahnschiene verläuft auch in der Kurve stets parallel zur anderen.''
# Serving the same purpose, leading to the same result
#: ''Die Autobahn verläuft parallel zur Eisenbahn aber in ganz unterschiedlichen Biegungen und Kurven.''
#: ''Die Eheleute hatten nichts verabredet, so haben sie parallel (zueinander) eingekauft.''

====Antonyms====
* [[gekreuzt]], [[schief]], [[windschief]]

====Related terms====
* [[Parallele]]
* [[Parallelenparalaxe]]
* [[parallelisieren]]
* [[Parallelogramm]]
* [[Parallelverschiebung]]

====Declension====
{{de-decl-adj-notcomp|parallel}}

===External links===
* {{R:Duden}}

[[ar:parallel]]
[[ca:parallel]]
[[cs:parallel]]
[[cy:parallel]]
[[de:parallel]]
[[et:parallel]]
[[el:parallel]]
[[es:parallel]]
[[fa:parallel]]
[[fr:parallel]]
[[ko:parallel]]
[[hy:parallel]]
[[io:parallel]]
[[id:parallel]]
[[it:parallel]]
[[kn:parallel]]
[[ku:parallel]]
[[li:parallel]]
[[hu:parallel]]
[[mg:parallel]]
[[ml:parallel]]
[[my:parallel]]
[[nl:parallel]]
[[ja:parallel]]
[[uz:parallel]]
[[pl:parallel]]
[[ru:parallel]]
[[simple:parallel]]
[[fi:parallel]]
[[sv:parallel]]
[[ta:parallel]]
[[te:parallel]]
[[chr:parallel]]
[[tr:parallel]]
[[vi:parallel]]
[[zh:parallel]]