==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[parent#Middle English|parent]]'' from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|parent|lang=fro}} from {{etyl|la}} ''[[parentem]]'', accusative of {{term|parens|parēns|parent|lang=la}}, present participle of ''[[parere]]'' "to breed, bring forth". Displaced native {{enm}} ''[[alder#Middle English|alder, aldor]]'' "parent" (from {{ang}} ''[[ealdor#Old English|ealdor]]'' "parent").

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈpærənt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"per@nt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-parent.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One of the two [[person]]s from whom one is immediately [[biological]]ly [[descend]]ed; a [[mother]] or [[father]].
# A person who [[act]]s as a parent in [[rear]]ing a [[child]]. (''adoptive parent'', ''foster parent'')
# {{biology}} An [[organism]] from which a plant or animal is immediately biologically descended.
# The [[source]] or [[origin]] of something.
# A [[group]] from which another group is [[formed]], or which completely controls a [[subordinate]] group. (''parent company'')
# {{context|computing|object oriented computer programming}} The object from which a [[child]] or [[derived]] object is descended.

{{rfex}}

====Quotations====
;person from whom one is descended
{{timeline|
1500s=1591|
1600s=1611}}
* {{RQ:Shakespeare Romeo}} i Prologue
*: From forth the fatal loins of these two foes / A pair of star-cross’d lovers take their life;<br/>Whose misadventured piteous overthrows / Doth with their death bury their '''parents'''’ strife.
* {{RQ:Shakespeare Tempest}} i 2
*: I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated to closeness and the bettering of my mind with that, which, but by being so retir’d, O’er-priz’d all popular rate, in my false brother awak’d an evil nature; and my trust, like a good '''parent''', did beget of him a falsehood.
* {{RQ:Authorized Version|John|9|19–20}}
*: And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see? His '''parents''' answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:

;source or origin
{{timeline|
1600s=1608}}
* {{RQ:Shakespeare Pericles}} ii 3
*: Whereby I see that Time’s the king of men, He’s both their '''parent''', and he is their grave.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|person from whom one is descended}} [[progenitor]]
* {{sense|computing: object from which a child is descended}} [[mother]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|person from whom one is descended}} [[child]], [[offspring]]
* {{sense|computing: object from which a child is descended}} [[child]]

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|person from whom one is descended}} [[father]], [[mother]]

====Derived terms====
* [[parentage]]
* [[parental]]
* [[parenthood]]
* [[parent company]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|person from whom one is descended}}
* Armenian: [[ծնող]] (çnoġ)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rodič|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ouder|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|generinto|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vanhempi}}
* French: {{t|fr|parent}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γονέας|m|tr=gonéas}},  {{t+|el|γεννήτορας|m|tr=genítoras}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|genitoro|xs=Ido}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|tuismitheoir|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t|it|genitore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|parens}}
* [[Luhya]]: {{tø|luy|omsasi}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|pai}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|părinte}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|родитель|m|tr=rodít'el’}}, {{t|ru|родительница|f|tr=rodít'el’nica}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|pàrant|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|padre}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mzazi|xs=Swahili}}
* [[Tswana]]: {{t-|tn|motsadi|xs=Tswana}} (1/2)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ebeveyn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person who acts as a parent in rearing a child}}
* Armenian: [[ծնող]] (çnoġ)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rodič|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ouder|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vanhempi}}, {{t-|fi|ottovanhempi}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γονέας|m|tr=gonéas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|tuismitheoir|m|xs=Irish}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|родитель|m|tr=rodít'el’}}, {{t|ru|родительница|f|tr=rodít'el’nica}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|pàrant|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ebeveyn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|biology: organism from which a plant or animal is biologically descended}}
* Armenian: [[ծնող]] (çnoġ)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rodič|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ouder|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vanhempi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|родитель|m|tr=rodít'el’}}, {{t|ru|родительница|f|tr=rodít'el’nica}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mzazi|xs=Swahili}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ebeveyn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|source or origin of something}}
* Armenian: [[աղբյուր]] (aġbyur)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zdroj|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bron|c}}, {{t+|nl|ouder|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syntyperä}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|источник|m|tr=istóčnik}}, {{t+|ru|причина|f|tr=pričína}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mzazi|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group from which another group is formed}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|matka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|moeder|m|alt=moeder-}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|emo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: object from which a child or derived object is descended}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ouder|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[ouer]]
* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[tud]] {{p}}, [[kerent]] {{p}} (only plural, otherwise use [[father]] or [[mother]])
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[родител]] (roditel) {{m}} (1)
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[pare]] {{m}}, [[mare]] {{f}} (''[[parents]]'' in plural: [[pares]] {{m}})
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[patro]] {{m}}, [[patrino]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[#French|parent]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Elternteil]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[הורה]] (hore) {{m}}, [[הורה]] (hora) {{f}}, ''plural:'' [[הורים]] (horim) {{m}} or {{m|f}}, [[הורות]] (horot) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[genitoro]]
* {{ttbc|Icelandic}}: [[foreldrar]] {{p}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[orangtua]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[parente]], [[genitor]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[genitore]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[親]] (おや, oya)
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[어버이]] (eobeo-i), [[부모]] (bumo)
* {{ttbc|Malay}}: [[orang tua]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[parens|parēns]] {{m|f}}
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[rodzic]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[pai]] {{m}}, [[mãe]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[părinte]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[starši]] {{m|p}} (there are only 'parents' in Slovene, there is no singular form to it; if used in singular, we say 'father' [[oče]] or 'mother' [[mati]], or very formally [[roditelj]])
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[padre]] {{m}}, [[madre]] {{f}}, [[origen]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[förälder]] (1,2,3,4)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ebeveyn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|parents|parenting|parented|parented}}

# To act as [[parent]], to [[raise]] or [[rear]].

====Derived terms====
* [[parenting]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to act as parent}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kasvattaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[foster]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aenprt}}
* [[entrap#English|entrap]]
* [[panter#English|panter]]
* [[trepan#English|trepan]]

[[Category:Family]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|parens|parēns|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pa.'ʁɑ~/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-parent.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|parent]], one’s [[father]] or [[mother]]
# any person to which one is related
#: {{rfex}}

====Derived terms====
* [[parental]]
* [[grand-parent]]

===Verb===
{{fr-verb-form}}

# {{form of|Third-person plural present indicative|[[parer#French|parer]]}}
# {{form of|Third-person plural present subjunctive|[[parer#French|parer]]}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aenprt}}
* [[râpent#French|râpent]]

[[Category:fr:Family]]

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m|parenz|parenz|parent}}

# {{l|en|parent}}

====Derived terms====
* [[parenté]]
* [[parentage]]

[[zh-min-nan:parent]]
[[de:parent]]
[[et:parent]]
[[el:parent]]
[[es:parent]]
[[eu:parent]]
[[fa:parent]]
[[fr:parent]]
[[ko:parent]]
[[hy:parent]]
[[io:parent]]
[[id:parent]]
[[it:parent]]
[[sw:parent]]
[[hu:parent]]
[[ml:parent]]
[[nl:parent]]
[[ja:parent]]
[[no:parent]]
[[oc:parent]]
[[pl:parent]]
[[pt:parent]]
[[ru:parent]]
[[simple:parent]]
[[fi:parent]]
[[sv:parent]]
[[ta:parent]]
[[th:parent]]
[[tr:parent]]
[[vi:parent]]
[[zh:parent]]