{{also|Pass}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/pɑːs/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/pæs/}}
* {{audio|en-us-pass.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːs}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|pas|lang=enm}}, {{term|pase|lang=enm}}, {{term|pace|lang=enm}}, from {{term|passen||to pass|lang=enm}}. See the verb section, below.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# An [[opening]], road, or track, available for passing; especially, one through or over some dangerous or otherwise impracticable barrier such as a mountain range; a [[passageway]]; a defile; a ford.
#: ''a mountain '''pass'''''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Henry Wadsworth Longfellow|Henry Wadsworth Longfellow]]:
#*: "Try not the '''pass'''!" the old man said.
# A single movement, especially of a hand, at, over{{,}} or along anything.
#* '''1921''', John Griffin, "Trailing the Grizzly in Oregon", in ''Forest and Stream'', pages 389-391 and 421-424, republished by Jeanette Prodgers in '''1997''' in ''The Only Good Bear is a Dead Bear'', page 35:
#*: [The bear] made a '''pass''' at the dog, but he swung out and above him [...]
# A single passage of a tool over something, or of something over a tool.
# {{fencing}} A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary. <!--(Shakespeare)-->
# {{figuratively}} A thrust; a sally of wit. <!--(Shakespeare)-->
# A sexual advance.
#: ''The man kicked his friend out of the house after he made a '''pass''' at his wife.''
# {{sport}} The act of moving the ball or puck from one player to another.
# {{rail transport}} A passing of two trains in the same direction on a single track, when one is put into a [[siding]] to let the other overtake it.
# Permission or license to pass, or to go and come.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:James Kent|James Kent]]:
#*: A ship sailing under the flag and '''pass''' of an enemy.
# A document granting permission to pass or to go and come; a passport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass.
# {{baseball}} An [[intentional walk]].
#: ''Smith was given a '''pass''' after Jones' double.''
# The state of things; condition; predicament; impasse.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#*: What, have his daughters brought him to this '''pass'''?
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Robert South|Robert South]]:
#*: Matters have been brought to this '''pass''', that, if one among a man's sons had any blemish, he laid him aside for the ministry...
# {{obsolete}} Estimation; character.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#*: Common speech gives him a worthy '''pass'''.
# {{obsolete|Chaucer|compare '[[passus]]'}} A part, a division.
# The area in a restaurant kitchen where the finished dishes are passed from the chefs to the waiting staff.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|opening|road|or track|available for passing}} [[gap]]
* {{sense|fencing: thrust or push}} [[thrust]]
* {{sense|figurative: a thrust; a sally of wit}}
* {{sense|movement over or along anything}}
* {{sense|movement of a tool over something, or something other a tool}}  [[transit]]
* {{sense|the state of things}} [[condition]], [[predicament]], [[state]]
* {{sense|permission or license to pass|or to go and come}} [[access]], [[admission]], [[entry]]
* {{sense|document granting permission to pass or to go and come}}
* {{sense|obsolete: estimation; character}}
* {{sense|obsolete: a part, a division}}

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|rail transport}} [[meet]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top|Terms derived from pass (noun)}}
* [[back pass]]/[[back-pass]]/[[backpass]]
* [[backstage pass]]
* [[backward pass]]
* [[bandpass]]
* [[boarding pass]]
* [[bring to pass]]
* [[bypass]]
* [[chest pass]]
* [[come to pass]]
* [[coupon pass]]
* [[don't pass go]]
* [[drop pass]]
* [[dry pass]]
* [[fish pass]]
* [[flare pass]]
* [[flat pass]]
* [[forward pass]]
* [[free pass]]
* [[Hail Mary pass]]
* [[half-pass]]
* [[hall pass]]
* [[hand pass]]
* [[highpass]]
* [[hospital pass]]
* [[inbounds pass]]
* [[incomplete pass]]
* [[intentional pass]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[lateral pass]]
* [[lead pass]]
* [[lowpass]]
* [[mountain pass]]
* [[outlet pass]]
* [[passband]]
* [[pass boat]]<!--(Naut.), a punt, or similar boat.-->
* [[pass book]]<!--(a) A book in which a trader enters articles bought on credit, and then passes or sends it to the purchaser. (b) See Bank book.-->
* [[pass box]]<!-- (Mil.), a wooden or metallic box, used to carry cartridges from the service magazine to the piece.-->
* [[pass check]]<!-- a ticket of admission to a place of entertainment, or of readmission for one who goes away in expectation of returning. -->
* [[pass-fail]]
* [[passkey]]
* [[pass law]]
* [[pass-remarkable]]
* [[pass rush]]
* [[penalty pass]]
* [[saucer pass]]
* [[screen pass]]
* [[short pass]]
* [[side pass]]
* [[snap pass]]
* [[spiral pass]]
* [[spot pass]]
* [[two-line pass]]
* [[userpass]]
* [[wet pass]]
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|opening, road, or track, available for passing}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|طريق|m|alt=طَريق}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|prolaz}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|passage|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|passe|f}}, {{t+|fr|passage|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|小道|tr=[[こみち]], komichi}}, {{t|ja|細道|tr=[[ほそみち]], hosomichi}}, {{t|ja|山道|tr=[[さんどう]], sandō}}
* Slovene: [[prehod]], {{t-|sl|prelaz|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|passage}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|geçit}}, {{t|tr|boğaz}}, {{t|tr|dar yol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fencing: thrust or push}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|突き|tr=[[つき]], tsuki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|movement of a tool over something, or something over a tool}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the state of things}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|事態|tr=[[じたい]], jitai}}, {{t|ja|段階|tr=[[だんかい]], dankai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|durum}}, {{t|tr|vaziyet}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|permission or license to pass, or to go and come}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|جواز|m|alt=جَوَاز}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|pas|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prepustnica}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|geçiş izni}}, {{t|tr|giriş-çıkış izni}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|document granting permission to pass or to go and come}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|جواز|m|alt=جَوَاز}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laissez-passer}}, {{t+|fr|sauf-conduit|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|通行証|tr=[[つうこうしょう]], tsūkō-shō}}; {{t|ja|許可証|tr=[[きょかしょう]], kyoka-shō}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|przepustka|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|pas|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prepustnica}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pass|n}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|giriş kartı}}, {{t|tr|paso}}, {{t|tr|ruhsat}}, {{t|tr|pasaport}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تمرير|alt=تَمرير}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|el çabukluğu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|passen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|lang=fro|passer||to step, walk, pass}}, from {{etyl|VL.}} *{{term||passāre|step, walk, pass|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|lang=la|passus||a step}}, {{term|lang=la|pandere||to spread, unfold, stretch}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|patno-|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|pete-|to spread, stretch out|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|fæþm||armful, fathom|lang=ang}}. More at {{l|en|fathom}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pass|es}}

# {{intransitive}} To move or be moved from one place to another.
#: ''They '''passed''' from room to room.''
# {{transitive}} To go past, by, over, or through; to proceed from one side to the other of; to move [[past]].
#: ''You will '''pass''' a house on your right.''
# {{intransitive}} To change from one state to another.
#: ''He '''passed''' from youth into old age.''
# {{intransitive}} {{context|of time}} To [[elapse]], to be spent.
#: ''Their vacation '''passed''' pleasantly.''
# {{transitive}} {{context|of time}} To [[spend]].
#: ''what will we do to '''pass''' the time?''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#*: To '''pass''' commodiously this life.
# {{intransitive}} To [[happen]].
#: ''It will soon come to '''pass'''.''
#* '''1876''', ''The Dilemma'', Chapter LIII, republished in Littell's ''Living Age'', series 5, volume 14, page 274:
#*: [...] for the memory of what '''passed''' while at that place is almost blank.
# {{intransitive}} To [[depart]], to [[cease]], to come to an [[end]].
#: ''At first, she was worried, but that feeling soon '''passed'''.''
#* '''1995''', Penny Richards, ''The Greatest Gift of All'':
#*: The crisis '''passed''' as she'd prayed it would, but it remained to be seen just how much damage had been done.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]:
#*: Beauty is a charm, but soon the charm will '''pass'''.
# {{intransitive}} {{context|often with "on" or "away"}} To [[die]].
#: ''His grandmother '''passed''' yesterday.''
#: ''His grandmother '''passed''' away yesterday.''
#: ''His grandmother '''passed''' on yesterday.''
# {{intransitive|transitive}} To go successfully through (an examination, trail, test, etc).
#: ''He '''passed''' his examination.''
#: ''He attempted the examination, but did not expect to '''pass'''.''
# {{intransitive|transitive}} To advance through all the steps or stages necessary to become [[valid]] or [[effective]]; to obtain the formal sanction of (a legislative body).
#: ''Despite the efforts of the opposition, the bill '''passed'''.''
#: ''The bill '''passed''' both houses of Congress.''
#: ''The bill '''passed''' the Senate, but did not '''pass''' in<!--sic--> the House.''
# {{intransitive}} To be be [[tolerate]]d as a substitute for something else, to "[[do]]".
#: It isn't ideal, but it will '''pass'''.
# {{intransitive|legal}} To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance.
#: ''The estate '''passes''' by the third clause in Mr Smith's deed to his son.''
#: ''When the old king passed away with only a daughter as an heir, the throne '''passed''' to a woman for the first time in centuries.''
# {{transitive|sport}} To move (the ball or puck) to a [[teammate]].
# {{intransitive|fencing}} To make a lunge or swipe.
# {{intransitive}} In any game, to decline to play in one's turn.
## {{intransitive}} In [[euchre]], to decline to make the trump.
# {{intransitive|obsolete}}: To go beyond bounds; to surpass; to be in excess.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#*: This '''passes''', Master Ford.
# {{transitive}} To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]]:
#*: And strive to '''pass''' . . . Their native music by her skillful art.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:George Gordon Byron|Byron]]:
#*: Whose tender power '''Passes''' the strength of storms in their most desolate hour.
# {{intransitive|obsolete}}: To [[take heed]].
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#*: As for these silken-coated slaves, I '''pass''' not.
# {{transitive}} To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#: Please you that I may '''pass''' / This doing.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]:
#: I '''pass''' their warlike pomp, their proud array.
# {{intransitive}} To come and go in consciousness.
# {{intransitive}} To go from one person to another.
# {{intransitive}} To continue.
# {{intransitive}} To proceed without hindrance or opposition.
# {{transitive}} To live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare:
#: She loved me for the dangers I had '''passed'''.
# {{transitive}} To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over.
#: ''The waiter '''passed''' biscuit and cheese.''
#: ''The torch was '''passed''' from hand to hand.''
#: I had only time to '''pass''' my eye over the medals. - [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]]
#: Waller '''passed''' over five thousand horse and foot by Newbridge. - [[w:Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon|Edward Hyde Clarendon]]
# {{transitive}} To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce.
# {{transitive}} Hence, to promise; to pledge.
#: to '''pass''' sentence - Shakespeare
#: Father, thy word is '''passed'''. - Milton
# {{transitive}} To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just.
#: ''He '''passed''' the bill through the committee.''
# {{transitive}} To put in circulation; to give currency to.
#: '''''pass''' counterfeit money''
#: '''Pass''' the happy news. - [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]]
# {{transitive}} To cause to obtain entrance, admission, or conveyance.
#: '''''pass''' a person into a theater or over a railroad''
# {{intransitive|transitive|medicine}} To eliminate (something) from the body by natural processes.
#: ''He was '''passing''' blood in both his urine and his stool.''
#: ''The poison had been '''passed''' by the time of the autopsy.''
# {{transitive|nautical}} To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure.
# {{transitive|football}} To kick (the ball) with precision rather than at full force.
#: Iaquinta '''passes''' it coolly into the right-hand corner as Paston dives the other way. - [http://www.guardian.co.uk/football/2010/jun/20/world-cup-2010-italy-new-zealand-live '''The Guardian'''], Rob Smyth, 20 June 2010
# {{intransitive|legal}} To make a [[judgment]] ''on'' or ''upon'' a person or case.
#* '''1485''', Sir Thomas Malory, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book X:
#*: And within three dayes twelve knyghtes '''passed''' uppon hem; and they founde Sir Palomydes gylty, and Sir Saphir nat gylty, of the lordis deth.
# {{LGBT}} To be regarded as a member of a specific [[sex]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|go by|over|etc}} [[pass by]], [[pass over]], etc.
* {{sense|go from one limit to the other of}} [[spend]]
* {{sense|live through}} [[bear]], [[endure]], [[suffer]], [[tolerate]], [[undergo]]
* {{sense|go by without noticing}} [[disregard]], [[ignore]], [[take no notice of]]
* {{sense|transcend}} [[better]], [[exceed]], [[excel]], [[outdo]], [[surpass]], [[transcend]]
* {{sense|go successfully through}}
* {{sense|obtain the formal sanction of}} be [[accept]]ed by, be passed by
* {{sense|cause to move or go}} [[deliver]], [[give]], [[hand]], [[make over]], [[send]], [[transfer]], [[transmit]]
* {{sense|utter}} [[pronounce]], [[say]], [[speak]], [[utter]]
* {{sense|promise}} [[pledge]], [[promise]], [[vow]]
* {{sense|cause to advance by stages of process}} [[approve]], [[enact]], [[ratify]]
* {{sense|put into circulation}} [[circulate]], [[pass around]]
* {{sense|cause to obtain entrance}} [[admit]], [[let in]], [[let]] [[past]]
* {{sense|medical: emit from the bowels}} [[evacuate]], [[void]]
* (''nautical: take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure'')
* {{sense|fencing: make|as a thrust|punto}} [[make]]
* {{sense|move or be moved from one place to another}} [[go]], [[move]]
* {{sense|change from one state to another}}
* {{sense|move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge}}
* {{sense|die}} [[pass away]], [[pass over]]
* {{sense|come and go in consciousness}}
* {{sense|happen}} [[happen]], [[occur]]
* {{sense|elapse}} [[elapse]], [[go by]]
* {{sense|go from one person to another}}
* {{sense|advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness}}
* {{sense|go through any inspection or test successfully}}
* {{sense|to be tolerated}}
* {{sense|to continue}} [[continue]], [[go on]]
* {{sense|proceed without hindrance or opposition}}
* {{sense|obsolete: go beyond bounds}} [[exceed]], [[surpass]]
* {{sense|obsolete: take heed}} [[take heed]], [[take notice]]
* {{sense|go through the intestines}}
* {{sense|be conveyed or transferred by will|deed|or other instrument of conveyance}}
* {{sense|fencing: to make a lunge or pass}} [[thrust]]
* (''decline to play in one's turn''):
* {{sense|in euchre|decline to make the trump}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top|terms derived from pass (verb)}}
* [[bypass]]
* [[don't pass go]]
* [[let pass]]
* [[like ships that pass in the night]]
* [[pass across]]
* [[pass along]]
* [[pass around]]
* [[pass away]]
* [[pass back]]
* [[pass by]]
* [[pass down]]
* [[passer]]
* [[pass for]]
* [[pass gas]]
* [[pass into]]
* [[pass muster]]
* [[pass off]]
* [[pass on]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[pass out]]
* [[pass over]]
* [[Passover]]
* [[pass-parole]]
* [[pass the baton]]
* [[pass the buck]]
* [[pass the hat]]
* [[pass the parcler]]
* [[pass the time]]/[[pass time]]
* [[pass through]]
* [[pass up]]
* [[pass upon]]
* [[pass under the yoke]]
* [[pass water]]
* [[pass wind]]
* [[pass with flying colors]]
* [[password]]
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|move or be moved from one place to another}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|proći}}
* Finnish: [[liikkua]] {{qualifier|intransitive}}, [[liikuttaa]] {{qualifier|transitive}}
* Italian: {{t|it|passare}}
* Latin: {{t|la|paeterio}}, {{t|la|praetereo}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|проходить|tr=proxodít'}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|пройти|tr=projtí}} {{pf.}} {{qualifier|intransitive}},  {{t|ru|передавать|tr=peredavát'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|передать|tr=peredát'}} {{pf.}} {{qualifier|transitive}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
* Swahili: [[kupita]]
* Swedish: {{t|sv|pasera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|change from one state to another}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|overgaan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muuttua}}, {{t-|fi|vaihtua}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[preiti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|passar}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kadota}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|過ぎる|tr=[[すぎる]], sugiru}}, {{t+|ja|経つ|tr=[[たつ]], tatsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|die}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|otići}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|doodgaan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|poistua}}, {{t+|fi|kuolla}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mourir}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|to die}} {{t+|ja|死ぬ|tr=[[しぬ]], shinu}}, {{t+|ja|死亡|alt=死亡する|tr=[[しぼうする]], shibō suru}}; {{qualifier|formal|to pass away}} {{t|ja|逝去|alt=逝去する|tr=[[せいきょする]], sēkyo suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[مردن]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[عمری خوا]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|falecer}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|formal}} {{t|ru|скончаться|tr=skončát’sja}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: [[umreti]], [[preminiti]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|fallecer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|come and go in consciousness}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|happen}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|passar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gebeuren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tapahtua}}, {{t+|fi|käydä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|passieren}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|起こる|tr=[[おこる]], okoru}}, {{t|ja|生じる|tr=[[しょうじる]], shōjiru}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}, {{t-|es|ocurrir}}, {{t+|es|suceder}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|elapse}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|انقضى|tr=inqaḍā|alt=انْقَضَى|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|مر|tr=márra|alt=مَرَّ|sc=Arab}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|passar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|過去|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|过去|tr=guòqù|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|過|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|过|tr=guò|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorbijgaan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kulua}}, {{t+|fi|mennä}}
* French: {{t|fr|passer|alt=se passer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|vergehen}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|過ぎる|tr=[[すぎる]], sugiru}}, {{t+|ja|経つ|tr=[[たつ]], tatsu}}
* Lithuanian: [[slinkti]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|проходить|tr=proxodít’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|пройти|tr=projtí|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|миновать|tr=minovát’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|минуть|tr=mínut’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|истекать|tr=istekát’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|истечь|tr=istéč’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: [[miniti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go from one person to another}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مرر|alt=مَرَّرَ}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|siirtyä}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|переходить|tr=perexodít'}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|перейти|tr=perejtí}} {{pf.}} {{qualifier|intransitive}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اجتاز|alt=اجتازَ}}
* Finnish: [[läpäistä]], [[mennä]] [[läpi]]
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|通る|tr=[[とおる]], tōru}}, {{t-|ja|通過|alt=通過する|tr=[[つうかする]], tsūka suru}}, {{t+|ja|承認|alt=承認する|tr=[[しょうにんする]], shōnin suru}}, {{t|ja|可決|alt=可決する|tr=[[かけつする]], kaketsu suru}}, {{t-|ja|批准|alt=批准する|tr=[[ひじゅんする]], hijyun suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go through any inspection or test successfully}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اجتاز}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|aprovar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slagen}}
* Finnish: [[mennä]] [[läpi]], [[läpäistä]], [[päästä]] [[läpi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|合格|alt=合格する|tr=ごうかくする, gōkaku suru}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
* Spanish: [[pasar]], (exam) [[aprobar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be tolerated}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تغاضى|alt=تَغَاضَى}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sietää}}, {{t+|fi|käydä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to continue}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|passar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|doorgaan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jatkua}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|proceed without hindrance or opposition}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: go beyond bounds}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: take heed}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go through the intestines}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مر|alt=مَرَّ}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praetereo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|law: to be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|譲渡|alt=譲渡する|tr=[[じょうとする]], jōto suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fencing: to make a lunge or pass}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|decline to play in one's turn}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تخلى|alt=تَخَلَّى}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[passata]], [[jättää väliin]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in euchre, decline to make the trump}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go by, over, etc}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مر|tr=márra|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|過|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|过|tr=guò|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|jít kolem}}, {{t|cs|minout}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorbijgaan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kulkea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|passer}}
* German: {{t|de|vorbeigehen}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|elmenni}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|passare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|通る|tr=[[とおる]], tōru}}, {{t-|ja|過ぎる|tr=[[すぎる]], sugiru}}, {{t-|ja|通過|alt=通過する|tr=[[つうかする]], tsūka suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|지나가다|tr=jinagada|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t|la|praeterire}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|گذشتن|tr=gozaštan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|passar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|проходить|tr=proxodít'}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|пройти|tr=projtí}} {{pf.}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pasar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förflytta}}
* [[!Xóõ]]: {{tø|nmn|!kxʻáa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go from one limit to the other of}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|live through}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go by without noticing}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أهمل|alt=أَهمَلَ}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transcend}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تجاوز|alt=تَجَاوَزَ}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go successfully through}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اجتاز|alt=اجتازَ}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Slagen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|átmegy}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|pasaig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obtain the formal sanction of}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to move or go}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|utter}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|promise}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to advance by stages of process}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|通る|tr=[[とおる]], tōru}}, {{t-|ja|通過|alt=通過する|tr=[[つうかする]], tsūka suru}}, {{t+|ja|承認|alt=承認する|tr=[[しょうにんする]], shōnin suru}}, {{t|ja|可決|alt=可決する|tr=[[かけつする]], kaketsu suru}}, {{t-|ja|批准|alt=批准する|tr=[[ひじゅんする]], hijyun suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|put into circulation}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to obtain entrance}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|medical: emit from the bowels}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fencing: make, as a thrust, punto}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|突く|tr=[[つく]], tsuku}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sports: to move the ball or puck to a teammate}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syöttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|パス|alt=パスする|tr=ぱすする, pasu suru}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[aanreiken]] (8)
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[pasigi]]
* {{ttbc|sw}}: [[kupitisha]]
* {{ttbc|sl}}: [[iti mimo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Short for ''[[password]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{computing}} {{slang}} A [[password]] (especially one for a restricted-access [[website]]).
#: ''Anyone want to trade '''passes'''?''

===Statistics===
* {{rank|opened|purpose|fall|545|pass|doing|note|pay}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[asps]]
* [[saps]]
* [[spas]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[pasː]|lang=fo}}

===Noun===
{{head|fo|noun|g=n}}

# [[passport]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n11|pass}}

----

==German==

===Verb===
{{head|de}}

# {{de-verb form of|passen|i|s}}

----

==[[Lombard]]==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[pas]|lang=lmo}}

===Noun===
{{head|lmo|noun}} {{g|Lombard}}

# [[step]]
# mountain {{l|en|pass}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-pass.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology 1===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}
From {{etyl|de|sv}}, originally from {{etyl|it|sv}} [[passo]].

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=n}}

# [[passport]] {{qualifier|document granting permission to pass}}
# place which you (must) pass or is passing; [[#English|pass]] {{qualifier|between mountains}}
# [[pace]]; a kind of [[gait]]
# place where a hunter hunts; place where a policeman patrols
# [[spell#English|spell]] (a period of duty)
# leave notice {{qualifier|document granting permission to leave}} (from prison)

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-n-zero|genitive=}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass (document)}}
* [[främlingspass]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[passfoto]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[passkontroll]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[respass]]
{{rel-bottom}}

{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass}}
* [[bergpass]]
* [[bergspass]]
* [[passera]]
* [[passgång]]
* [[passlöp]]
* [[passtakt]]
* [[passtaktig]]
* [[stilpass]]
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-bottom}}

{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass (gait)}}
* [[passgång]]
* [[passgångare]]
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-bottom}}

{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass (hunting place)}}
* [[harpass]]
* [[rävpass]]
{{rel-bottom}}
{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass (spell)}}
* [[arbetspass]]
* [[eftermiddagspass]]
* [[förmiddagspass]]
* [[kvällspass]]
{{rel-bottom}}
{{rel-top4|}}
* [[vattenpass]]
{{rel-bottom}}
{{rel-top4|}}
* [[fyrpass]]
* [[rundpass]]
* [[sexpass]]
{{rel-bottom}}
* [[passa]]
* [[passlig]]
* [[till pass]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[genomfart]], [[överfart]], [[passage]]

* leave notice: [[permissionssedel]], [[permissionspass]]

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# {{context|ball sports|lang=sv}} [[#English|pass]]; a transfer of the ball from one player to another in the same team

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar|sg-gen-indef=pass}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from pass}}
* [[bakåtpass]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[framåtpass]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[passa]]
{{rel-mid4}}
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Synonyms=====
* [[passning]]

[[cs:pass]]
[[cy:pass]]
[[de:pass]]
[[et:pass]]
[[el:pass]]
[[es:pass]]
[[fa:pass]]
[[fr:pass]]
[[ko:pass]]
[[hr:pass]]
[[io:pass]]
[[it:pass]]
[[kn:pass]]
[[ka:pass]]
[[ku:pass]]
[[lo:pass]]
[[li:pass]]
[[hu:pass]]
[[mg:pass]]
[[ml:pass]]
[[my:pass]]
[[nl:pass]]
[[ja:pass]]
[[no:pass]]
[[pl:pass]]
[[ru:pass]]
[[simple:pass]]
[[fi:pass]]
[[sv:pass]]
[[ta:pass]]
[[te:pass]]
[[th:pass]]
[[tr:pass]]
[[vi:pass]]
[[zh:pass]]