==English==
{{wikipedia|Buck passing}}

In US Navy wardrooms, as late as the mid nineteen-seventies, the table was headed by the executive officer and footed by the supply officer.  On each side was the other ship's officers seated according to rank.  Most senior subordinate officers nearest the executive officer.  The "buck", a small icon similar to a chess piece, rotated around the table and indicated which officer was obligated to give the blessing at the evening meal.  Naval officers, not being a particularly religious lot, were known to "pass the buck" if they could get away with it.  "The buck stops here" was probably derived from the rare occasion that the Commanding Officer, who had his own mess elsewhere on board, chose to dine with his officers.  On those memorable events, the skipper always said grace.    

===Etymology===
May have originated with the game of [[poker]], in which a [[marker]] or [[counter]], frequently in frontier days a knife with a buckhorn handle, was used to indicate the person whose turn it was to deal. If the player did not wish to deal he could pass the responsibility by passing the "buckhorn" or "[[buck]]", as the marker came to be called, to the next player.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|inf=[[pass]] [[the]] [[buck]]|passes the buck|passing the buck|passed the buck}}

# {{idiomatic|informal}} To transfer [[responsibility]] or [[blame]] from oneself onto another; to [[absolve]] oneself of concern for a given matter by claiming to lack [[authority]] or [[jurisdiction]].

====Related terms====
* [[buck-passing]]
* [[buck-passer]]
* [[the buck stops here]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transfer responsibility or blame from oneself}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|推卸責任|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|推卸责任|tr=tuīxiè zérèn|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pakoilla vastuuta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|fare a scaricabarili}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|сваливать ответственность|tr=sválivat' otvétstvennost'|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t-|ru|переводить стрелки|tr=perevodít' strélki|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}} {{qualifier|coll., lit.: move the arrows}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* [http://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/pass-the-buck.html At phrases.org.uk]

[[Category:English predicates]]

[[bg:pass the buck]]
[[et:pass the buck]]
[[simple:pass the buck]]