==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|lang=fro|passage}}, from {{term|lang=fro|passer||to pass}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ˈpæsɪʤ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-passage.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[paragraph]] or section of text or music with particular meaning.
#: '''''passage''' of scripture''
#: ''She struggled to play the difficult '''passages'''.''
# Part of a path or journey.
#: ''He made his '''passage''' through the trees carefully, mindful of the stickers.''
# The official [[approval]] of a [[bill]] or [[act]] by a [[parliament]].
#: ''The company was one of the prime movers in lobbying for the '''passage''' of the act.''
# An artistic term describing use of tight brushwork to link objects in separate spatial plains. Commonly seen in Cubist works.
# A [[passageway]] or corridor.
# {{caving}} An underground cavity, formed by water or falling rocks, which is much longer than it is wide.
# The [[vagina]].
#* '''1986''', Bertrice Small, ''A Love for All Time'',<sup >[http://books.google.com/books?id=b9JRW7sVGN0C ]</sup> New American Library, ISBN 9780451821416, page 463:
#*: With a look of triumph that he was unable to keep from his dark eyes he slid into her '''passage''' with one smooth thrust, {{...}}
#* '''1987''', Usha Sarup, ''Expert Lovemaking'', Jaico Publishing House, ISBN 978-81-7224-162-9, [http://books.google.com/books?id=korRmue3tMAC&pg=PA53&dq=passage page 53]:
#*: This way, the tip of your penis will travel up and down her '''passage'''.
#* '''2009''', Cat Lindler, ''Kiss of a Traitor'', Medallion Press, ISBN 9781933836515, [http://books.google.com/books?id=Sh3N1MG0yJgC&pg=PA249&dq=passage page 249]:
#*: At the same moment, Aidan plunged two fingers deep into her '''passage''' and broke through her fragile barrier.
# The act of [[pass]]ing
#* '''1886''', Pacific medical journal Volume 29
#*: He claimed that he felt the '''passage''' of the knife through the ilio-cascal valve, from the very considerable pain which it caused.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[rite of passage]]
* [[passagemaker]]
* [[passage maker]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|section of text or music}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|passatge|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jakso}}, [[jae]] (numbered section of text); {{t|fi|juoksutus}} (''section of music'')
* French: {{t|fr|passage|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Passus|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|απόσπασμα|n|tr=apóspasma}}, {{t|el|περικοπή|f|tr=perikopí}}, {{t|el|χωρίο|n|tr=chorío}}, {{qualifier|music}} {{t+|el|μελωδία|f|tr=melodía}}, {{t|el|εδάφιο|n|tr=edáfio|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|transitus|m}}, {{t|la|iter|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|passagem|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пассаж}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|pasaje|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mapito|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of a journey}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|passatge|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|etappi}}, {{t+|fi|osuus}}
* German: {{t+|de|Passage|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πέρασμα|n|tr=pérasma}}, {{t|el|διάβαση|f|tr=diávasi}}, {{t+|el|διέλευση|f|tr=diélefsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|iter|n}}, {{t|la|transitus|m}}, {{t|la|transitus|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|passagem|f}}
* Russian: [[пассаж]]
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mapito|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|official agreement of a bill or act}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hyväksyminen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ψήφιση|f|tr=psífisi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[通過]] (tsūka)
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mapito|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|artistic term}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mapito|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|passageway}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|passatge|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|koridoro|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|käytävä}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διάδρομος|m|tr=díádromos}}, {{t+|el|δίοδος|f|tr=díodos}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|perlintasan|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|pasáiste|m}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|corridoio|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|passagem|f}}, {{t+|pt|corredor|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mapito|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|passag|ed}}

# {{medicine}} To pass a [[pathogen]] through a hosts or media
#: ''He '''passaged''' the virus through a series of goats.''
#: ''After 24 hours, the culture was '''passaged''' to an agar plate.''
# {{rare}} To make a [[#Noun|passage]], especially by sea; to [[cross]]
#: ''They '''passaged''' to America in 1902.''

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|lang=fr|passager}}, from {{etyl|it}} {{term|lang=it|passeggiare}}
{{rft}}

====Pronunciation====
{{rfp|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{dressage}} A movement in classical [[dressage]], in which the horse performs a very collected, energetic, and elevated [[trot]] that has a longer period of suspension between each foot fall than a working trot.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|passag|ed}}

# {{intransitive|dressage}} To execute a passage movement
#* {{quote-book|1915|Cunninghame Graham|Hope|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=NVx5NIXk4ocC|page=18
|passage=After a spring or two, the horse '''passaged''' and reared, and lighting on a flat slab of rock which cropped up in the middle of the road, slipped sideways and fell with a loud crash {{...}} }}

====Statistics====
* {{rank|touch|higher|military|891|passage|wood|matters|physical}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-passage.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''passage''' {{f}}

# A paragraph or section of text with particular meaning. ~ of scripture.

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɑ.saːʒ/|lang=fr}}, {{X-SAMPA|/pa.saZ@/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-passage.ogg|Audio (France, Paris)}}
* {{homophones|passagent|passages|lang=fr}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro|fr}}, from {{suffix|passer|age|lang=fr}}.

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|m}}

# The act of going [[through]] a place or event.
# The time when such an act occurs.
# {{uncountable}} Circulation, traffic, movement.
# {{astronomy|lang=fr}} Moment when a star or planet [[occult]]s another,or crosses a [[meridian]].
# A short stay.
# A [[trip]] or [[travel]], especially by boat.
# The act of going from a state to another.
# [[graduation|Graduation]] from a school year.
# The act of making something undergo a process.
# the act of [[hand]]ing something to someone.
# An [[access]] way.
# A laid out [[way]] allowing to go across something.
# An [[alley]] or [[alleyway]] off-limits to cars.
# A paragraph or section of text or music.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[de passage]]
* [[passage à l'acte]]
* [[passage à niveau]]
* [[passage à tabac]]
* [[passage à vide]]
* [[passage clouté]]
* [[passage piéton]]
* [[passager]]
* [[passagèrement]]
* [[rite de passage]]

===Etymology 2===
Verb form of {{term|passager||lang=fr}}.

====Verb====
{{fr-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|passager||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|passager||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|passager||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|passager||3|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|passager||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|passage}} {{gloss|part of a route or journey}}
#* {{quote-book|year=circa 1180|title=[[s:fr:Lancelot ou le Chevalier de la charrette (Édition de Foulet et Uitti)|Lancelot ou le Chevalier de la charrette]]|author=[[wikipedia:Chrétien de Troyes|Chrétien de Troyes]]|passage=Volez que je vos die gierres<br />Del '''passage''' com il est max ?|translation=Do you want me to tell you<br />Of the passage, how bad it is?}}

[[de:passage]]
[[et:passage]]
[[el:passage]]
[[es:passage]]
[[eo:passage]]
[[fa:passage]]
[[fr:passage]]
[[ko:passage]]
[[io:passage]]
[[it:passage]]
[[kn:passage]]
[[sw:passage]]
[[ku:passage]]
[[li:passage]]
[[hu:passage]]
[[mg:passage]]
[[ml:passage]]
[[my:passage]]
[[nl:passage]]
[[no:passage]]
[[pl:passage]]
[[pt:passage]]
[[ru:passage]]
[[fi:passage]]
[[sv:passage]]
[[ta:passage]]
[[te:passage]]
[[vi:passage]]
[[zh:passage]]