{{also|Pat|pAt|PAT|päť}}
{{xsee|{{Cyrl|[[рат]]}} {{qualifier|Cyrillic alphabet}}}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-pat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æt}}

===Etymology 1===
Originally probably imitative.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The sound of a light slap or tap with a soft flat object, especially of a footstep
# A light tap or slap, especially with the hands
# A flattish lump of soft matter, especially [[butter]] or [[dung]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sound of a light slap or tap}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|taputus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|light tap or slap}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|taputus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|flattish lump of soft matter}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nokare}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pat|t|ed}}

# To (gently) [[tap]] the flat of one's [[hand]] on a [[person]] or thing.
#: ''To show affection, he decided he would '''pat''' the boy on the head.''
# To hit lightly and repeatedly with the flat of the hand to make smooth or flat
#: ''I '''patted''' the cookie dough into shape.''
# To gently rain.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to tap gently}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|taputtaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|slìog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hit to make smooth or flat}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|taputtaa}}, {{t|fi|taputella}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to gently rain}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lopottaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t+|fr|tapoter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: {{t+|de|tätscheln}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: {{t|te|తట్టు}} (taTTu)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[trite]], being superficially [[complete]], lacking [[originality]]
#: ''Your manager is not going to be satisfied with your '''pat''' ideas for the new project.''
#* 2010, '''New York Times''', [http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/23/opinion/23sun1.html Editorial: Jobs and the Class of 2010], May 23.
#*: The '''pat''' answer is that college students should consider graduate school as a way to delay a job search until things turn around, and that more high school students should go to college to improve their prospects. ''
# [[timely]] and [[suitable]]

====Adverb====
{{en-adv}}

# {{obsolete}} [[opportunely]], in a timely or suitable way.
#* '''''c''. 1600''', William Shakespeare, ''[[w:Hamlet|Hamlet]]'' III.iii
#*: Now might I do it '''pat'''
# [[perfectly|Perfectly]].
#: ''He has the routine down '''pat'''.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|opportunely}}
* Finnish: [[sopivasti]], [[sattuvasti]], {{t|fi|oikein}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[strike]]
* [[hit]]
{{mid2}}
* [[feel]]
* [[name]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Abbreviation.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# [[patent]]

===Anagrams===
* [[APT#English|APT]], [[ap't#English|ap't]], [[apt#English|apt]], [[apt.#English|apt.]], [[ATP#English|ATP]], [[PTA#English|PTA]], [[TAP#English|TAP]], [[tap#English|tap]]

----

==Czech==

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[stalemate]] {{chess|lang=cs}}

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[stalemate]] ([[chess]])

----

==Indonesian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Oceanic|lang=id}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|id|noun}}<!-- or numeral? --> (a shorter form of ''[[empat]]'')

# [[four]]

----

==Min Nan==
{{zh-forms|[[捌]] or [[八]]|[[捌]] or [[八]]}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[bat]] ''to know somebody''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ pat˩˩ ]|lang=nan}}

===Noun===
{{nan-noun|p|pojt=pat4|tas=[[捌]] or [[八]]}}

# [[eight]]

====Usage notes====
* '''peh/poeh''' is used when referring to amounts, whereas '''pat''' is used for years and telephone numbers, bank account numbers etc.

===Verb===
{{nan-verb|p|pojt=pat4|tas=[[捌]] or [[八]]}}

# to [[know]] somebody; to [[recognize]]
# to be [[familiar]] with

====Synonyms====
* {{zh-ts|認識|认识}} [[rènshi]] ''to know somebody''

===References===
* {{reference-book
 | last = 
 | first = 
 | authorlink = 
 | coauthors = 
 | year = 2000
 | title = 台灣話大詞典　(Tâi-ôan-ōe tōa-sû-tián)
 | publisher = ISBN 9573240785
 | location = 
 | id = 
}}

[[Category:nan:Numbers|pat4]]

----

==Polish==
{{wikipedia|lang=pl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[stalemate]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|pat|paty
|patu|patów
|patowi|patom
|pat|paty
|patem|patami
|pacie|patach
|pacie|paty
}}

[[Category:pl:Chess]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|ro}} {{term|πάτος||path|sc=polytonic|lang=grc}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|paturi}}

# [[bed]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-n|pl=paturi|def=patul}}

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
: '''pat''' {{m}}, '''paty''' {{p}}
: '''pat''' ''stem''
: '''patu''' ''gensg''

# a [[stalemate]] in a game of [[chess]]

====Derived terms====
* [[patový]] -á -é

[[Category:Slovak nouns]]{{attention|sk|total mess}}
----

==Volapük==

===Etymology===
French ''[[particularité]]''

===Noun===
'''pat'''

# [[particularity]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

[[Category:Volapük nouns]]

[[et:pat]]
[[el:pat]]
[[fa:pat]]
[[fr:pat]]
[[hr:pat]]
[[io:pat]]
[[kn:pat]]
[[ku:pat]]
[[lo:pat]]
[[lt:pat]]
[[hu:pat]]
[[my:pat]]
[[nl:pat]]
[[oc:pat]]
[[pl:pat]]
[[pt:pat]]
[[ro:pat]]
[[ru:pat]]
[[simple:pat]]
[[fi:pat]]
[[ta:pat]]
[[te:pat]]
[[th:pat]]
[[tr:pat]]
[[vi:pat]]
[[vo:pat]]
[[zh:pat]]