==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~|patcheries}}

# [[hypocrisy|Hypocrisy]]; [[trickery]].
#* {{circa|1602}} [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[w:Troilus and Cressida|Troilus and Cressida]], ii 3''
#*: ''Thersites:'' Here is ſuch '''patchery''', ſuch juggling and ſuch knavery!
#* {{ante|1623}} [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]] {{qualifier|debated}}, ''[[w:The Life of Timon of Athens|The Life of Timon of Athens]], v 1''
#*: ''Timon:'' I, and you heare him cogge, ſee him diſſemble<!--,--> / Know his groſſe '''patchery''', loue him, feede him<!--,--> / Keepe in your boſome: yet ramain aſſur’d / That he’s a made-up villaine.
#* '''1820''' July 20, Dorothy Woodsworth, ''Journal''
#*: at Aix-la-Chappelle there is always a mighty preponderance of poverty and dullness, except in a few of the shewiest of the streets, and even there, a flashy meanness, a slight '''patchery''' of things falling to pieces is everywhere visible.
#* '''1888''', Samuel Cox, William Robertson Nicoll{{,}} and James Moffatt {{qualifier|editors}}, “The Books of the Apocrypha”, ''The Expositor'', Hodder and Stoughton, page 340
#*: the learned Dr. Lightfoot''...''in a sermon preached in St. Margaret’s, Westminster, before the House of Commons in 1643, spoke of the “wretched Apocrypha” as “a '''patchery''' of human invention,” divorcing the end of the law from the beginning of the Gospel.
#* '''1978''', Derek Roper, ''Reviewing Before the ''Edinburgh'' 1788-1802'', University of Delaware Press, ISBN 0874131286, page 281
#*: It sounds prettily; and is, in parts, very carefully and mystically wrapped up in the gaudy envelope of poetical '''patchery'''.
# That which is thrown or sown together usually clumsily or with different color and textures, like [[patchwork]].
#* '''1856''', Henry Mason Baum, “The Ministry a Pleasant Work”, ''The Church Review.'', page 532
#*: [The Clergy] find all that is absolutely requisite, provided in some way or other; they succeed in feeding, clothing, and educating their children, and live in sufficient comfort not to feel the ridicule which belong to dilapidation and '''patchery'''.
#* '''1863''', “Naples and Lake Avernus”, ''The Eagle.'', volume 3, W. Metcalfe (Cambridge), page 285
#*: The Chinese mourn in white, and some of us in Harlequin-like '''patchery''', as though believing motley to be the only wear.
#* '''1998''', Gioia Timpanelli, “Rusina, Not Quite in Love”, ''Sometimes the Soul'', ''Two Novellas of Sicily'', W. W. Norton & Company (Sicily), ISBN 0393027449, page 131
#*: In the corner next to the oven was a huge heap of black rags covering the couch. Among the '''patchery''' was a large piece of tapestry
# {{lb|en|UK|military|historical}} Living quarters for married soldiers.

[[ml:patchery]]
[[vi:patchery]]
[[zh:patchery]]