{{also|Patronage}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
/ˈpeɪtrənɪd͡ʒ/<!--what is this?-->

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|patronage}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The act of providing [[approval]] and [[support]]; [[backing]]; [[championship]].
#: ''His vigorous '''patronage''' of the conservatives got him in trouble with progressives.''
# [[customer|Customer]]s [[collectively]]; [[clientele]]; [[business]].
#: ''The restaurant had an upper class '''patronage'''.''
# A [[communication]] that indicates lack of [[respect]] by patronizing the [[recipient]]; [[condescension]]; [[disdain]].
# {{label|en|politics}} Granting [[favour]]s or giving [[contract]]s or making [[appointment]]s to [[office]] in return for [[political]] support.
# [[guardianship|Guardianship]], as of a [[saint]]; [[tutelary]] [[care]].
#* {{quote-book|title=Woman and Her Era|author=Eliza Farnham|year=1864|passage=Each of the Arts whose office is to refine, purify, adorn, embellish and grace life is under the '''patronage''' of a Muse, no god being found worthy to preside over them.}}
#: {{rfquotek|Addison}}
# The [[right]] of [[nomination]] to [[political]] [[office]].
# {{label|en|UK|legal}} The [[right]] of [[presentation]] to [[church]] or [[ecclesiastical]] [[benefice]]; [[advowson]].
#: {{rfquotek|Blackstone}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the act of providing approval and support}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tukeminen}}, {{t+|fi|kannattaminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|soutien|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|pártfogás}}, {{t|hu|patronázs}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mecenato|m}}, {{t|pt|patronato|m}}
* German: {{t|de|schirmherrschaft|f}}, {{t+|de|buch|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|customers collectively; clientele; business}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|asiakaskunta}}, {{t|fi|asiakkaat|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|clientèle|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πελατεία|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vevőkör}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|clientela|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a communication that indicates lack of respect by patronizing the recipient}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|holhoaminen}}, {{t+|fi|alentuvuus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πατρονάρισμα|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|granting favours or giving contracts or making appointments to office in return for political support}}
* French: {{t+|fr|clientélisme|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|clientelismo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the business given to a commercial establishment by its customers; trade}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πελατεία|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|patronage|m}}
* Greek: {{t-check|el|πατρονία|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|patrocinio|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|patrocinio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|patronag}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To support by being a [[patron]] of.
#* '''2003''', Hubert Michael Seiwert, ''Popular Religious Movements and Heterodox Sects in Chinese History'', BRILL, ISBN 9789004131460, [http://books.google.com/books?id=Xg-gcQq1TGQC&pg=PA62&dq=patronaged page 62]:
#*: Mingdi continued the policy of his father who had '''patronaged''' Confucian learning.
#* '''2004''', C.K. Gandhirajan, ''Organized Crime'', APH Publishing Corporation, ISBN 978-81-7648-481-7, [http://books.google.com/books?id=ohyhsmWmelAC&pg=PA147&dq=patronaged page 147]:
#*: Table 5.4 reveals the role of criminal gangs’ patron under each crime category. From this, we can understand that 74 percent of the mercenaries are '''patronaged''' and supported by the politicians either of the ruling or opposition party.
#* '''2007''', Stefaan Fiers and Ineke Secker, “A Career through the Party”, chapter 6 of Maurizio Cotta and Heinrich Best (editors), ''Democratic Representation in Europe'', Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-923420-2, [http://books.google.com/books?id=EtetpwF-xHMC&pg=PA138&dq=patronaged page 138]:
#*: To summarize: a person with a party political background is thus defined as ‘a person that has served in (a) {{...}} and/or (b) a non-elective position inside the party administration of '''patronaged''' position in another organisation, i.e. ''the political functionary''’.
# {{label|en|transitive}} To be a regular customer or client of; to [[patronize]]; to [[patronise]]; to [[support]]; to [[keep going]].
#* {{circa|1880}} in ''The Primary Teacher'' (magazine), Volume III, Number ??, New-England Publishing Company, [http://books.google.com/books?id=sxgVAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA33&dq=patronaged page 63]:
#*: This house is largely '''patronaged''' by the professors and students of many of the Educational Institutions of New England and the Middle States; and all perons visiting New York, either for business or pleasure, will find this an excellent place at which to stop.
#* '''1902''' May, in ''Oregon Poultry Journal'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=flRMAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA27&dq=patronage page 27]:
#*: Mr. F. A. Welch, of the Oak View Poultry Farm, Salem, starts an add with us this issue. {{...}} Our readers will be treated well, if they '''patronage''' Mr. Welch.
#* '''2002''', Kevin Fox Gotham, ''Race, Real Estate, and Uneven Development'', SUNY Press, ISBN 978-0-7914-5377-3, [http://books.google.com/books?id=CRG0QOEw9wAC&pg=PA28&dq=patronaged page 28]:
#*: Most public establishments catered to Blacks, and Whites actively '''patronaged''' some black-owned businesses (Martin 1982, 6, 9–11; Slingsby 1980, 31–32).

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|patron|age|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-patronage.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{rhymes|ɑʒ|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|Patronage]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[cs:patronage]]
[[de:patronage]]
[[et:patronage]]
[[el:patronage]]
[[eo:patronage]]
[[fr:patronage]]
[[ko:patronage]]
[[hy:patronage]]
[[io:patronage]]
[[kn:patronage]]
[[ku:patronage]]
[[hu:patronage]]
[[ml:patronage]]
[[nl:patronage]]
[[pl:patronage]]
[[ru:patronage]]
[[simple:patronage]]
[[ta:patronage]]
[[te:patronage]]
[[chr:patronage]]
[[vi:patronage]]
[[zh:patronage]]