==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[pavement]] [[pizza]]|~}}

# {{lb|en|UK|Australia|humorous}} [[vomit|Vomit]].
#: ''I think I'm about to deliver a '''pavement pizza'''.
#* '''2004''', Andrew Holmes, Matthew Reeves, ''Pains on Trains: A Commuter′s Guide to the 50 Most Irritating Travel Companions'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=-g0G49FmRKQC&pg=PA207&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 207],
#*: Being drunk is one thing, but creating a '''pavement pizza''' on a train is clearly overstepping the mark.
#* '''2009''', Aaron Chynn, ''Memoirs of an Ordinary Man: A Yorkshireman's Tale'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=hayL7pkAapUC&pg=PA77&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 77],
#*: I was so relieved at the end of the journey that if I had had anything left to throw up I would have made it a hat trick of '''pavement pizzas'''.
#* '''2010''', Michael Powell, Matt Forbeck, ''Forbidden Knowledge College: 101 Things '''Not''' Every Student Should Know How To Do'', Adams Media, UK, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=9pNatToRRzIC&pg=PA84&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 84],
#*: This will make you gag and cough; keep going until your stomach starts heaving. Open your throat as if you were is about to swallow a sword; this sends another signal to your brain that a '''pavement pizza''' [is] about to be delivered.
# {{lb|en|humorous}} The badly damaged bodily remains of a person who has jumped or fallen from a great height.
#* '''1998''', Eileen Dreyer, ''Brain Dead'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=_NICoNE4WMEC&q=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y page 287],
#*: She would have been '''pavement pizza''' if she hadn′t been strapped in. As it was, she was hanging from the shoulder strap like a parachutist who hit a tree.
#* '''2008''', Christopher Nosnibor, ''The Plagiarist'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=AsruF_BbGdUC&pg=PA107&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 107],
#*: He′d even heard of there having been a jumper once. Ended up as '''pavement-pizza''', but astoundingly still alive, now simply existing in a semi-vegetable state, a crippled slobbering mess, physically and mentally incapacitated for the remainder of his sorry life.
#* '''2011''', Bob Sehlinger, ''The Unofficial Guide to Britain′s Best Days Out, Theme Parks and Attractions'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ptk82Uwd_ikC&pg=PA133&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 133],
#*: Fortunately, technology is in place to slow your descent before you become '''pavement-pizza'''.
# [[roadkill|Roadkill]].
#* '''1995''', Margaret Lawrence, ''Cousin Cassie′s Cookin′'', Annette J. Bruce, J. Stephen Brooks (editors), ''Sandspun: Florida Tales by Florida Tellers'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=G5otiSFO0NgC&pg=PA43&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 43],
#*: That's so the little critters can go there and eat their little hearts out instead of getting them smashed out on the road as a part of a '''pavement pizza'''.
#* '''2004''' September 13, Editorial Opinion, ''Philadelphia Daily News (PA)''
#*: Had I been in an [[SUV]], the kid would have been '''pavement pizza'''.
#* '''2005''', Paul Frederick Kluge, ''Final Exam'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=aJ4DrWuTawEC&pg=PA21&dq=%22pavement+pizza%22|%22pavement+pizzas%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OWXVT5_aIMPYigfuvJ2oAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pavement%20pizza%22|%22pavement%20pizzas%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 21],
#*: If that schnauzer winds up '''pavement pizza''', they′d love reporting me, they′d be checking my tires for fur in no time.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|vomit}} See [[Wikisaurus:vomit]].