{{also|Appendix:Variations of "pe"}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|pei}}, {{l|en|pey}}
===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sem-pro|en}} {{m|sem-pro|*pay-||mouth}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|?}}

# The seventeenth letter of many Semitic alphabets/abjads ([[Phoenician]], [[Aramaic]], [[Hebrew]], [[Syriac]], and others; [[Arabic]] has the analog [[Faa]]).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Semitic letter}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pé|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|פֵּא}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pa}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|פּא|m|f|tr=pey}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|ep}}, {{l|en|EP}}

===External links===
* {{pedialite|Pe (letter)}}

[[Category:en:Hebrew letter names]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sqj-pro|sq}} {{m|sqj-pro|*petja}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*petino}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*pet}} 'to spread out, to extend' (compare English {{m|en|fathom}}). Alternatively from {{etyl|la|sq}} ''[[pannus]]'' 'cloth, rag, garment'<ref>{{R:sq:Orel:2000|page=313}}</ref>.

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|m|penjë|peri|penjtë}}

# [[thread]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|sq|pejzë}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Annobonese==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|cri|fab}} {{m|cri|pe||father}}, from {{etyl|pt|fab}} {{m|pt|pai||father}}, from {{etyl|roa-opt|fab}} {{m|roa-opt|pay}}, {{m|roa-opt|padre||father}}, from {{etyl|la|fab}} {{m|la|pater|patrem|father}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|fab}} {{m|ine-pro|*ph₂tḗr||father}}.

===Noun===
{{head|fab|noun}}

# [[father]]

===References===
* '''2005''', John H. McWhorter, Defining Creole

----

==Breton==

===Conjunction===
{{head|br|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

===Adjective===
{{head|br|adjective|interrogative adjective}}

# [[which]], [[what]]

----

==Catalan==

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|f}}

# The [[Appendix:Hebrew script|Hebrew]] letter {{l|he|פ}} (final form {{l|he|ף}}).
# {{Latn-def|ca|name|P|p}}

[[Category:ca:Hebrew letter names]]

----

==Faroese==

===Noun===
{{fo-noun|n|pes|pe}}

# {{Latn-def|fo|name|P|p}}

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n4|pe}}

====See also====
* {{list:Latin script letter names/fo}}

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
Abbreviation of ''[[perjantai]]''.

===Abbreviation===
{{rfc-header|Abbreviation}}
{{fi-abbr}}

# [[perjantai]] ([[Friday]])

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|ぺ}} (hiragana)
# {{ja-romanization of|ペ}} (katakana)

----

==Latin==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/peː/|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{head|la|noun|head=pē|{{l|en|indeclinable}}}}

# {{Latn-def|la|name|P|p}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{Latin letter names of the Roman alphabet}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Gaffiot}}
* Arthur E. Gordon, ''The Letter Names of the Latin Alphabet'' ([[w:University of California Press|University of California Press]], 1973; volume 9 of ''University of California Publications: Classical Studies''), part III: “Summary of the Ancient Evidence”, page 32: "Clearly there is no question or doubt about the names of the vowels A, E, I, O, U. They are simply long A, long E, etc. (ā, ē, ī, ō, ū). Nor is there any uncertainty with respect to the six mutes B, C, D, G, P, T. Their names are bē, cē, dē, gē, pē, tē (each with a long E). Or about H, K, and Q: they are hā, kā, kū—each, again, with a long vowel sound."

[[Category:la:Letter names of the Roman alphabet]]

----

==Lojban==

===Cmavo===
{{jbo-cmavo}}

# Belonging to or being associated with; [[of]].
#: ''le boxna be fu zi'o be'o [[pe]] la daubetcis. cu cinri''
#:: The Daubechies frequency-less wave is interesting.

====Usage notes====
* The cmavo {{m|jbo|ge'u}} can be used to indicate the termination of the [[pe]]-phrase, but is only required if the parsing of the sentence would otherwise be ambiguous.
* The cmavo ''[[pe]]'' can be followed immediately by a [[sumti tcita]] in order to have its phrase modify a [[cmene]], as if it were an internal [[sumti]] of that cmene.

====Related terms====
* {{l|jbo|po}}
* {{l|jbo|po'e}}
* {{l|jbo|ne}}

[[Category:Lojban cmavo of selma'o GOI]]

----

==Neapolitan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|nap}} {{m|la|per}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pe/|lang=nap}}, {{a|Naples}} {{IPA|/pə/|lang=nap}}

===Preposition===
{{head|nap|preposition}}

# [[for]]

----

==Old Provençal==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|pro|la|pedem}}, accusative of {{m|la|pes}}. [[Gallo-Romance]] cognate with {{cog|fro|pié}}.

===Noun===
{{pro-noun|m}}

# [[foot]] (anatomy)

====Descendants====
* Catalan: {{l|ca|peu}}
* Occitan: {{l|oc|pè}}

----

==Pali==

===Particle===
{{head|pi|particle}}

# {{abbreviation of|peyyāla|lang=pi}}

----

==Romanian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|ro|pă}} {{qualifier|Muntenia, informal}}, [[pi]] {{qualifier|Moldova}}, [[pre]] {{qualifier|archaic}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} {{m|la|per}}, with meaning influenced by {{m|la|super}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|e|lang=ro}}

===Preposition===
{{ro-prep|a}}

# [[on]]
#: ''cartea este '''pe''' masa'' - The book is on the table.
# ''(no lexical meaning) used to indicate direct object in some cases''
#: ''o aștept '''pe''' mama'' - I'm waiting on/for mom.

====Usage notes====
'''Pe''' takes the accusative case of nouns and is used as the marker for the direct object when said object is:
* a proper noun; the name of a person or animal
* a common noun referring to a specific person, generally known to both the speaker and listener
* a common noun acting as a metaphor for a person
* a common noun in a construction in which the subject and the direct object are the same noun and they precede the predicate

'''Pe''' is not used when the direct object is:
* a common noun designating inanimate objects or animals
* a common noun referring to an unspecified person

====Related terms====
* {{l|ro|peste}}
* {{l|ro|pentru}}
* {{l|ro|pre-}}

----

==Romansch==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|Sursilvan}} {{l|rm|pei}}
* {{qualifier|Puter|Vallader}} {{l|rm|pè}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|rm}} {{m|la|pēs||foot}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|rm}} {{m|ine-pro|*pṓds}}.

===Noun===
{{head|rm|noun|g=m|plural|pes|or|peis}}

# {{lb|rm|Rumantsch Grischun|Sutsilvan|Surmiran|anatomy}} [[foot]]

====Usage notes====
In [[Rumantsch Grischun]] and [[Sutsilvan]], the plural is {{m|rm|pes}}. In [[Surmiran]], however, it is {{m|rm|peis}}.

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈpe/|lang=es}}
** Audio: {{audio|letter p es es.flac|lang=es}}

===Noun===
{{es-noun|f}}

# {{Latn-def|es|name|P|p}}

----

==Tocharian A==

===Etymology===
{{PIE root|xto|ped}}
Ultimately from {{etyl|ine-pro|xto}} {{m|ine-pro|*pṓds}}. Compare the nominative/accusative dual form, {{m|xto|peṃ}}, presumably from a {{etyl|ine-toc-pro|xto}} dual *''peine'' (whence also Tocharian B nominative/accusative dual form {{m|txb|paine}}), from an earlier {{m|ine-toc-pro|*pei}}, from the Proto-Indo-European dual {{m|ine-pro|*póde}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*pṓds}}. It is from this dual form in Proto-Tocharian that the singular forms have probably been analogically built. Compare Tocharian B {{m|txb|paiyye}}. <ref>http://www.geocities.ws/protoillyrian/tocharian.html</ref>

===Noun===
{{head|xto|noun|g=m}}

# [[foot]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|xto|peṃ}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|peyi|peler}}

# {{Latn-def|tr|name|P|p}}

====See also====
* {{list:Latin script letter names/tr}}

----

==Turkmen==

===Noun===
{{tk-noun}}

# {{Latn-def|tk|name|P|p}}

----

==Welsh==

===Conjunction===
{{head|cy|conjunction}}

# [[if]]
#: '''''Pe''' bawn i'n gyfoethog, teithiwn i o gwmpas y byd'' — If I were rich, I would travel around the world.

[[ast:pe]]
[[br:pe]]
[[ca:pe]]
[[cs:pe]]
[[de:pe]]
[[et:pe]]
[[es:pe]]
[[fr:pe]]
[[gl:pe]]
[[ko:pe]]
[[hr:pe]]
[[io:pe]]
[[id:pe]]
[[it:pe]]
[[ku:pe]]
[[la:pe]]
[[lt:pe]]
[[jbo:pe]]
[[hu:pe]]
[[mg:pe]]
[[fj:pe]]
[[nl:pe]]
[[ja:pe]]
[[pl:pe]]
[[pt:pe]]
[[ro:pe]]
[[ru:pe]]
[[sm:pe]]
[[sq:pe]]
[[fi:pe]]
[[sv:pe]]
[[chr:pe]]
[[tr:pe]]
[[vi:pe]]
[[zh:pe]]