{{was wotd|2006|March|31}}
==English==

pe·dan·tic (p -d n t k). adj. Characterized by a narrow, often ostentatious concern for book learning and formal rules: a pedantic attention to details.

=== Shelmerdine Syndrome ===

Shelmerdine syndrome (SS), also known as Shelmerdine's syndrome or Shelmerdine disorder, is an pedantic disorder (PD) that is characterized by significant difficulties in attention to detail, alongside restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests. 

Whilst the suffer displays a overt and often ostentatious concern for book learning and formal rules they seldom find themselves being able to succeed in activities where the rules make learning fun.

The syndrome is named after the Scottish pediatrician Shelm Leigh who, in 1986, studied and described children in his practice who lacked the ability to not correct people and demonstrated limited empathy with their peers.

===Alternative forms===
* [[pedantick]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|pedant|ic}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|pa-dăn'tĭk}}, {{IPA|/pəˈdæn.tɪk/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/p@"d{ntIk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-pedantic.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æntɪk}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Like a [[pedant]], overly concerned with [[formal]] rules and [[trivial]] points of learning.
# Being [[showy]] of one’s [[knowledge]], often in a [[boring]] manner.
# Being [[finicky]] or [[fastidious]], especially with [[language]].

====Related terms====
* [[pedant]]
* [[pedantry]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|like a pedant}} {{qualifier|informal, derogatory}} [[anal-retentive]], [[fussy]], [[nit-picky]]
* {{sense|knowledge-peacock}} {{qualifier|sometimes applicable}} [[nit-picky]], [[ostentatious]], [[pedagogical]], [[pretentious]]
* {{sense|linguistically affected}} [[fussy]], [[nit-picky]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:fastidious]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|like a pedant}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pedantský|f}}, {{t-|cs|pedantický|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pedanttinen}}, {{t+|fi|pikkumainen}}, {{t+|fi|pikkutarkka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|méticuleux}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σχολαστικός|tr=scholastikós}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|杓子定規|tr=しゃくしじょうぎ, shakushi jyogi|sc=Jpan}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|meticulos}}, {{t-|ro|pedant}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|being showy of one's knowledge}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pedanttinen}}, {{t-|fi|rikkiviisas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pédant}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|学者ぶった|tr=がくしゃぶった, gakusha butta|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|being finicky with language}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pedantský|f}}, {{t-|cs|pedantický|m}}, {{t-|cs|slovíčkářský|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pedanttinen}}, {{t-|fi|sanatarkka}}, {{t-|fi|kirjaimellinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pointilleux}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σχολαστικός|tr=scholastikós}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: [[賣弄學問的;炫學者]]
* {{ttbc|et}}: [[pedantne]]
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[pédant]] {{m}}, [[pédante]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[pedantisch]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[현학적인]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[pedant]]
* {{ttbc|sh}}: {{t-|sh|pedantan|alt=pèdantan}}, {{t-|sh|педантан|alt=пѐдантан|sc=Cyrl}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[cursi]], [[maniático]], [[pedante]], [[puntilloso]]
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[pedantisk]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[pentadic#English|pentadic]]

[[et:pedantic]]
[[fr:pedantic]]
[[ko:pedantic]]
[[io:pedantic]]
[[it:pedantic]]
[[kn:pedantic]]
[[my:pedantic]]
[[pl:pedantic]]
[[ru:pedantic]]
[[sv:pedantic]]
[[te:pedantic]]
[[vi:pedantic]]
[[zh:pedantic]]