{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|here|thought|found|140|people|still|just|while}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|peple|peple||lang=enm}}, {{term|peple|peeple||lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|xno}} ''[[people#Anglo-French|people]]'', from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|pueple|pueple, peuple|lang=fro}}, {{term|pople|lang=fro}} (modern {{fr}} {{term|peuple|lang=fr}}), from {{etyl|la}} {{term|populus|lang=la}} "people", of unknown origin. Probably of non-[[Indo-European]] origin, from {{etyl|ett}}. Gradually ousted native {{enm}} ''[[leed#Middle English|lede, leed]]'' "people" (from {{ang}} ''[[leode#Old English|lēode]]'').

Originally a singular noun (eg. ''The people is hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the wilderness'' --2 Samuel 17:29, King James Version), the plural aspect of ''people'' is probably due to influence from {{enm}} ''[[lede#Middle English|lede]]'', ''[[leed#Middle English|leed]]'', a plural since {{ang}} times (compare {{ang}} ''[[leod#Old English|lēode]]'' "people, men, persons", plural of {{ang}} ''[[leod#Old English|lēod]]'' "man, person").

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈpiːpəl/}}, {{SAMPA|/"pi:p@l/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈpipəl/|/ˈpipl̩/}}, {{SAMPA|/"pip@l/|2=/"pipl=/}}
* {{audio|en-us-people.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-people.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|iːpəl}}
* {{hyphenation|peo|ple}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|''plural common noun'' and ''collective noun'' (''plural'' '''[[peoples]]''')}}

# {{non-gloss definition|used as plural of person}}; a [[body]] of [[human]] [[being]]s considered generally or collectively; a [[group]] of two or more [[person]]s.
#* {{quote-book|passage="What a charming amusement for young '''people''' this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society."|title=[[S:Pride and Prejudice/Chapter 6|Pride and Prejudice]]|author=Jane Austen|year=1813}}
# (''plural'' '''[[peoples]]''') [[person|Person]]s forming or belonging to a particular group, such as a [[nation]], [[class]], [[ethnic]] group, [[country]], [[family]], etc; [[folk]]; [[community]].
# A group of persons regarded as being [[employee]]s, [[follower]]s, [[companion]]s or [[subject]]s of a [[ruler]].
#* '''1611,''' ''[[w:Old Testament|Old Testament]], [[w:King James Version of the Bible|King James Version]]'', 2 Samuel 8:15,
#*: And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice unto all his '''people'''.[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/toccer-new2?id=Kjv2Sam.sgm&images=images/modeng&data=/texts/english/modeng/parsed&tag=public&part=8&division=div1]
#* '''1952,''' ''[[w:Old Testament|Old Testament]], [[w:Revised Standard Version|Revised Standard Version]]'', Thomas Nelson & Sons, Isaiah 1:3,
#*: The ox knows its owner, and the ass its master's crib; but Israel does not know, my '''people''' does not understand.
# One's colleagues or employees.
#* '''2001''', Vince Flynn, ''Transfer of Power'', p. 250:
#*: Kennedy looked down at Flood's desk and thought about the possibilities. "Can you locate him?" "I already have my '''people''' checking on all [it]."
#* '''2008''', Fern Michaels, ''Hokus Pokus‎'', p. 184:
#*: Can I have one of my '''people''' get back to your '''people''', Mr. President?" She tried to slam the phone back into the base and failed.
# A person's [[ancestor]]s, [[relative]]s or family.
#: ''My '''people''' lived through the Black Plague and the Thirty Years War.''
# The mass of a community as distinguished from a special [[class]] (elite); the [[commonalty]]; the [[populace]]; the [[vulgar]]; the common crowd; the [[citizen]]s.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|plural of person, human beings}} [[leod]]
* {{sense|persons belonging to a group}} [[collective]], [[community]], [[congregation]], [[folk]], [[nation]], [[clan]], [[tribe]], [[race]], [[class]], [[caste]], [[club]]
* {{sense|followers}} [[fans]], [[groupies]], [[supporters]]
* {{sense|ancestors or relatives}} [[kin]], [[kith]], [[folks]]
* {{sense|mass of a community}} [[populace]], [[commoners]], [[citizenry]]

====Derived terms====
* [[peeps]]
* [[people's army]]
* [[people's democracy]]
* [[people's republic]]
* [[people's war]]
* [[peoplehood]]
* [[peopleless]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a body of human beings; a group of two or more persons}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[mense]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[ناس]]}} (nās) {{m}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|մարդիկ|tr=mardik}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|ljudi|p}}
* [[Breton]]: [[tud]] {{p}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[gent]] {{f}}
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|klistyano}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᏴᏫ|tr=yvwi|sc=Cher|xs=Cherokee}}
* Chinese: [[人們]], [[人们]] ([[rénmen]])
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|ljudi|p}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|lid|m}}, {{t+|cs|lidé|p}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|folk|p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mensen|p}}, {{t+|nl|lui|p}}, {{t+|nl|volk|n}}, {{t+|nl|personen|p}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|homoj|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: [[inimesed]] {{p}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|tjóð|xs=Faroese}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väki}}, {{t+|fi|ihmiset|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gens|p}}
* German: {{t+|de|Leute|p}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κόσμος|m|tr=kósmos}}, {{t+|el|άνθρωποι|m|p|tr=ànthropi}}
* Hebrew: [[אנשים]] (anashim) {{m|p}}
* Hindi: [[लोग]] (log)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|emberek}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þjóð}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[personas]] {{p}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gente|f}}
* Japanese: [[人々]] (hitobito), [[人達]] (hitotachi)
* Korean: [[사람들]] (saramdeul)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|خه‌ڵک|tr=xellk|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|populus|m}}, {{t+|la|gens|f|alt=gēns}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|žmonės|m|p|xs=Lithuanian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Lojban]]: {{t-|jbo|prenu|xs=Lojban}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|луѓе|p|tr=lúǵe}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|orang|xs=Malay}}
* [[Manx]]: {{t|gv|pobble|xs=Manx}}
* Maori: {{t-|mi|tangata|xs=Maori}}
* Mongolian: {{t-|mn|ард|sc=Cyrl|xs=Mongolian}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|folk}},  {{t+|no|lyd}}
* [[Old Church Slavonic]]: {{tø|cu|людиє|m|p|tr=ljudie|sc=Cyrs}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|menn|m|p|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|weras|m|p|xs=Old English}}, {{t+|ang|folc|n|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مردم|alt=مَردُم|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ludzie|p}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pessoas|f|p}}, {{t+|pt|gente|f}}
* [[Punjabi]]: [[ਲੋਕ]] (lōk)
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|oameni|m}}
* Russian: [[люди]] (ljúdi) {{p}}, [[люд]] (ljud) {{m}} (obsolete)
* [[Scots]]: [[fowk]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[људи]] {{p}}
*: Roman: [[ljudi]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[ľudia]], [[ľud]] {{m}}
* Slovene: [[ljudje]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|gente|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|folk|n}}
* [[Taos]]: [[t’óyna]]
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|ప్రజలు}} (prajalu), {{t|te|జనం}} (janam)
* [[Tetum]]: [[ema]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|halk}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nhân dân|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|người|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|pobl|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|folk|xs=West Frisian}}, {{t|fy|lju|xs=West Frisian}}
* [[Zulu]]: [[abantu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a group of persons forming or belonging to a particular nation etc.}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[volk]]
* Armenian: [[ժողովուրդ]] (žoġovurd)
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|narod|m}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|poble|m}}
* Chinese: [[人民]] (rénmín)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|narod|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|lid|m}}, {{t+|cs|lidé|p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volk|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|popolo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kansa}}, {{t-|fi|väestö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|peuple|m}}
* German: [[Volk]] {{n}} (''plural'' [[Völker]])
* Greek: {{t+|el|λαός|m}} (laós), {{t+|el|κόσμος|m}} (kósmos), {{t+|el|έθνος|n}} (éthnos)
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|pèp}}
* Hebrew: [[עם]] (am) {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nép}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|popolo|m}}, {{t+|it|nazione|f}}
* Japanese: [[国民]] (kokumin), [[民族]] (minzoku)
* Korean: [[국민]] (gugmin), [[민족]] (minjok)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|گه‌ل|tr=gel|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|مله‌ت|tr=milet|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|gens|f}}
* Lithuanian: [[tauta]] {{f}}, [[liaudis]] {{f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|народ|m|tr=národ}}
* Maori: {{t-|mi|tangata|xs=Maori}}
* [[Mazanderani]]: {{tø|mzn|به‏نه‏وار|tr=benevár|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|folk|n}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t+|ang|folc|n|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|dryht|f|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|leode|f|p|alt=lēode|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|naród|m}}, {{t+|pl|lud|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|povo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|popor}},  {{t-|ro|neam}},  {{t-|ro|naţiune}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|народ|m|tr=naród}}, {{t+|ru|нация|f|tr=nácija}}
* [[Scots]]: [[fowk]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[народ]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[narod]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|narod}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pueblo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|folk|n}}, {{t|sv|folkslag|n}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nhân dân|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Yiddish: [[פֿאָלק]] (folk) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a group of persons regarded as being employees etc.}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[mense]]
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* {{trreq|Danish}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mensen|p}}, {{t+|nl|volk|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|popolo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väki}}, {{t-|fi|henkilökunta}}
* {{trreq|French}}
* German: {{t+|de|Leute|pl}}
* {{trreq|Italian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|人々|tr=hitobito}}, {{t+|ja|臣民|tr=shinmin}}
* Korean: [[사람들]] (saramdeul), [[신하]] (sinha), [[백성]] (baekseong)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|folk}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ludzie|p}}, {{t+|pl|naród|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|folk|n}}
* {{trreq|Thai}}
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a person's ancestors, relatives or family}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[familie]]
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|obitelj|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|familie|f}}, {{t+|nl|verwanten|p}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|gento|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suku}}, {{t-|fi|sukulaiset}}
* German: [[Familie]] {{f}}, [[Verwandten]] {{p}}, [[Angehörigen]] {{p}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σόι|n}} (sói), {{t|el|δικοί του|m|p}} (dikoí tou)
* Italian: {{t+|it|famiglia|f}}
* Japanese: [[家族]] (kazoku), [[両親]] (ryōshin), [[親類]] (shinrui), [[先祖]] (senzo)
* Korean: [[가족]] (gajok), [[양친]] (yangchin), [[근친자]] (geunchinja), [[선조]] (seonjo)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|باو باپیران|tr=baw bapîran|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|giminė|f|xs=Lithuanian}}, {{t+|lt|šeima|f|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|slekt|m}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|cynn|n|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ogół|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|família|f}}
* Russian: [[родня]] (rodnjá, ''[[colloquial|colloq.]]'') {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|družina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|familia|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|släkt|c}}, {{t+|sv|anhörig|c}}
* [[Taos]]: [[t’óyna]]
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|gia đình|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the mass of community as distinguished from a special class}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[volk]]
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ժողովուրդ|tr=žoġovurd}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|poble|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|lid|m}}, {{t+|cs|lidé|p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volk|n}}, {{t+|nl|massa|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|popolo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kansa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|peuple|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μάζες|f|p}} (mázes), {{t+|el|λαός|m}} (laós)
* Italian: {{t+|it|popolo|m}},  {{t+|it|popolazione|f}}
* Japanese: [[平民]] (heimin), [[庶民]] (しょみん, shomin)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[평민]] (pyeongmin), [[서민]] (seomin)
* Latin: {{t+|la|populus|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|folk|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|lud|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|povo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|popor}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|народ|m|tr=naród}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pueblo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|folk|n}} (most commonly in definite form {{t|sv|folket}})
* [[Taos]]: [[t’óyna]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[pobl]] {{f}} -où
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[人们]] (rénmen); [[人民]] (rénmín); [[人]] (yun, Cantonese version)
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[populo]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[liaudis]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[popor]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|peopl|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[stock]] with people or [[inhabitant]]s; to fill as with people; to [[populate]].
#* '''1674''', [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]], ''[http://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Texts/stateinn.html The State of Innocence and the Fall of Man]'', Act II, Scene I:
#*: He would not be alone, who all things can; / But '''peopled''' Heav'n with Angels, Earth with Man.
# {{intransitive}} To become [[populous]] or [[populated]].
# {{transitive}} To [[inhabit]]; to [[occupy]]; to [[populate]].
#* {{ante|1645}} [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''[[s:Il Penseroso|Il Penseroso]]'', lines 7–8:
#*: {{...}} / As thick and numberless / As the gay motes that '''people''' the Sun Beams, / {{...}}

====Derived terms====
* [[peopler]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to fill with people}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|bevolken}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|asuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|bevölkern}}
* Italian: [[popolare]] con
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|населува|tr=naséluva}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|befolke}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|povoar}}
* Russian: [[населять]] (naselját’)
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|naseliti}}
* Spanish: [[poblar]] con
* Swedish: {{t|sv|befolka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become populous}}
* Dutch: [[bevolkt]] [[worden]] (''literally: “become populated”'')
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisääntyä}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|befolkes}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|povoar-se}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|poblarse}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|befolkas}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to inhabit, to occupy}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|bevolken}}, {{t+|nl|bewonen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|enloĝi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|asua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[bewohnen]], [[besiedeln]], [[bevölkern]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|befolke}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|befolka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[popoli]] (1), [[popoliĝi]] (2)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English suppletive plurals]]
[[Category:Reduplication]]

----

==French==

===Alternative forms===
* [[pipole]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pi.pɔl/|lang=fr}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} {{term|people|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{countable|lang=fr}} A [[celebrity]], a [[famous]] person.
#* '''2004''', Emmanuel Davidenkoff and Didier Hassoux, ''Luc Ferry: une comédie du pouvoir, 2002–2004'' (''Luc Ferry: A Comedy of Power, 2002–2004''), Hachette, ISBN 9782012357785,
#*: Le novice en politique contre le mammouth « Éducation nationale ». Ça mérite la sympathie. Et puis c’est un '''''people'''''. Les gens aiment et détestent à la fois. Ils sont fascinés. Le bonheur sur papier glacé. Les vacances entre Saint-Trop’, la Martinique et Deauville.
#*:: The political novice against the mammoth "National Education". That merited sympathy. Then, too, he was a '''celebrity'''. People loved and hated at the same time. They were fascinated. Happiness on ice paper. Vacations between Saint-Tropez, Martinique, and Deauville.
#* '''2008''', Martine Delvaux, "''L’égoïsme romantique'' de Frédéric Beigbeder" ("Frédéric Beigbeder's ''L’égoïsme romantique'' (''Romantic Egotism'')"), in Alain-Philippe Durand (editor), ''Frédéric Beigbeder et ses doubles'' (''Frédéric Beigbeder and His Doubles''), Rodopi, ISBN 978-90-420-2472-4, [http://books.google.com/books?id=Xdq49c2vIfYC&pg=PA95&dq=people page 95]:
#*: Oscar Dufresne est un '''''people''''' anti-'''''people''''', un macho impuissant, un intellectuel qui ne dit rien d’intelligent, un faux sadique et un faux masochiste, un anti-autobiographe.
#*:: Oscar Dufresne is a '''celebrity''' who is anti-'''celebrity''', a powerless macho man, an intellectual who says nothing intelligent, a fake sadist and a fake masochist, an anti-autobiographer.

====Usage notes====
* The French noun {{term||people}} is frequently italicized as a loanword, as in the quotations above.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|a celebrity}} [[célébrité]], [[personne connue]], [[personnalité]], [[personnage public]]

====Derived terms====
* [[pipolisation]]

[[Category:Etruscan derivations]]

[[af:people]]
[[ang:people]]
[[ar:people]]
[[ast:people]]
[[zh-min-nan:people]]
[[ca:people]]
[[cy:people]]
[[de:people]]
[[et:people]]
[[el:people]]
[[es:people]]
[[fa:people]]
[[fr:people]]
[[ko:people]]
[[hy:people]]
[[io:people]]
[[it:people]]
[[kn:people]]
[[kk:people]]
[[sw:people]]
[[ku:people]]
[[lo:people]]
[[la:people]]
[[lt:people]]
[[li:people]]
[[hu:people]]
[[ml:people]]
[[my:people]]
[[nl:people]]
[[ja:people]]
[[no:people]]
[[pl:people]]
[[pt:people]]
[[ru:people]]
[[simple:people]]
[[sr:people]]
[[fi:people]]
[[sv:people]]
[[ta:people]]
[[te:people]]
[[th:people]]
[[tr:people]]
[[uk:people]]
[[vi:people]]
[[zh:people]]