==English==

===Proper noun===
'''Pepto-Bismol'''

# A brand of [[medicine]] effective against [[nausea]], [[heartburn]], [[indigestion]], [[upset]] [[stomach]] and [[diarrhea]].

===Adjective===
'''Pepto-Bismol'''

# A particular shade of [[pink]] associated with said medicine.

====Quotations====
{{rfd}}
#'''2007''', Jude Barnes, ''Missing The Laughter'', p. 39:
#:The worst part was the bathroom. He insisted I paint it '''Pepto-Bismal''' pink. His tastes could be extreme, but it was his bathroom. I still can't chug Pepto-Bismol, though. 
#'''2004''', Wendy Etherington, ''If The Stiletto Fits...'', p. 127:
#:Just before he'd slipped into a coma, he'd had the strong urge to run to a pharmacy and slug down some '''Pepto-Bismol'''.  
#'''2003''', Lani Robson Remender, ''Casino to Die For: The Hunt for Tears of the Sun'', p. 224:
#:See all those '''Pepto-Bismol''' colored housing developments to your right. They're cluttering up this beautiful section of the Sonoran Desert.
#'''2003''', Caroline Slate Fractured Truth'', p. 136:
#:You go swig some '''Pepto-Bismol''' and I'll pop a couple of aspirin and I'll take you to the movies over on Nineteenth Street."  
#'''2000''', Guillermo Gómez-Peña, ''Dangerous Border Crossers: The Artist Talks Back'', p. 120:
#:I needed some '''Pepto Bismol'''; I was experiencing a serious case of ideological vertigo. 
#'''1998''', Susan Isaacs, ''Red, White, and Blue'', p. 246:
#:To Nicki, who was wearing the mini- est of minidresses, barely more than a ruffle of '''Pepto- Bismol''' pink. 
#'''1992''', James Melson, ''The Golden Boy'' p. 69:
#:As I held him up so he could "help me", he said, "Listen, Jimmy, you take some '''Pepto Bismol''', do a little coke and then let Manfred show you the best of the boys in New York. 
#'''1991''', [[w:Stephen King|Stephen King]], ''[[w:The Stand|The Stand]]'', p. 408:
#:He would get some '''Pepto-Bismol''' and force Tom to drink it when he woke up, whether Tom wanted to or not. 
#'''1960''', Henry Ringling North, Alden Hatch, ''The Circus Kings: Our Ringling Family Story'', p. 298:
#:Arming himself with '''Pepto-Bismol''' he took off in one of the new Pan American Clippers. 
#'''1952''', Ohio Valley Transportation Advisory Board, Pacific Northwest Advisory Board, ''Proceedings, Regular Meeting'', p. 17:
#:[We] thought he was going to get up from the table and get some '''Pepto-Bismol''' and not worry about his breakfast because we had certainly ruined his digestion.