==English==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|meteorology|informal}} A [[powerful]] [[hurricane]] or other major [[weather]] [[disturbance]], especially as produced by a [[combination]] of [[meteorological]] conditions.
#* '''1796,''' William Fordyce Mavor, ''Historical account of the most celebrated voyages, travels, and discoveries ...'', p. 161,
#*: But on the 24th of April, the wind again blew a '''perfect storm''', and our other ships of the squadron separated, nor did any of them rejoin the commodore.
#* '''1914,''' Samuel Finley Breese Morse and Edward Lind Morse, ''Samuel F.B. Morse: His Letters and Journals'', p. 190,
#*: Ten o'clock. Beginning to blow hard; taking in sails one after another. — Three o'clock. A '''perfect storm'''; the gale a few days ago but a gentle breeze to it.
# {{lb|en|figuratively|by extension}} A situation where a [[calamity]] is caused by the [[convergence]] and [[amplify]]ing [[interaction]] of a number of factors.
#* '''1862,''' Frank Moore, Edward Everett, ''The Rebellion Record: A Diary of American Events'', p. 149,
#*: They sent a '''perfect storm''' of bullets, over, under, and into our men.
#* '''2008''', Jim Coyle, "Stormy weather for tourism season," ''Toronto Star'', 30 Jun., p. AA8,
#*: Tory said he was worried that "a '''perfect storm'''" of economic factors could put tourist operators and their communities in peril.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|situation}}
* German: {{t|de|Verkettung unglücklicher Umstände|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English idioms]]