{{interwiktionary|code=fa}}
{{wikibooks|Persian}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} '''[[percynne]]''' < {{MF.}} '''[[persien]]''' < {{L.}} '''*[[Persianus]]''' < {{L.}} '''[[Persia]]''' < {{AGr.}} '''[[Περσίς]]''' < {{OP.}} '''[[Pārsa]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{rhymes|ɜː(r)ʒən}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|Persians}}

# The main ethnic group of [[Iran]].
# A group of very similar languages spoken primarily in Iran, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan, Persian belongs to the Southwestern branch of the [[Iranian]] subfamily of the Indo-Iranian family of languages. Indo-Iranian itself is a subfamily of the Indo-European language family. Closely related languages include [[Kurdish]], [[Pashto]], and [[Avestan]].
# A [[pastry]] local to the Thunder Bay region often compared to either a [[cinnamon]] [[bun]] or a [[donut]] topped with [[pink]] [[icing]]. (local [[colloquialism]], ''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunder_Bay%2C_Ontario Thunder Bay, Ontario], [[Canada]]'')
# A breed of [[cat]].

====Usage notes====
*Persian is the name applied to the official language of [[Iran]]. This language is also spoken in [[Tajikistan]] and some parts of [[Afghanistan]].
*The name "Farsi" (the local name for Persian) has developed currency in English to refer to the dialect spoken in Iran. Afghans usually call it [[Dari]], and the version spoken in Tajikistan is called Tajiki Persian or simply Tajiki.

====Translations====
{{Persian-Farsi}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Describes a person, place or object referring to Persia or Persians.

====See also====
*[[Iranian]]
*[[Tajiki-Persian]]
*[[Dari-Persian]]
*[[Farsi]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|referring to Persia or Persians}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[فارسي]]}} (fársi)
*Bulgarian: [[персиец]] (persíets) {{m}}, [[персийка]] (persíjka) {{f}} (1)
*Danish: [[persianer]] (2)
*Dutch: [[Pers]] {{m}}, [[Perzische]] {{f}} (1); [[Perzisch]] {{n}} (2)
*Chinese: [[波斯人]] (bōsīrén) (1)
*Esperanto: [[perso]] (2)
*Finnish: [[persialainen]] (1); [[persia]] (3)
*French: [[Persan]] {{m}} (1,2)
*German: [[Perser]] {{m}}, [[Perserin]] {{f}} (1)
*Greek: [[Πέρσης]] (Pérsis) {{m}}, [[Περσίδα]] (Persída) {{f}} (1)
*Gujarati: [[ફારસી]] (pharsī) (1)
*Hindi: [[फ़ारसी]] (farsī) (1)
*Hungarian: [[perzsiai]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[farsi]] (2)
*Italian: [[persiano]] (2), [[persico]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[페르샤의]] (pereusya-ui) (2)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[ایرانی]]}} (irâni), {{FAchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi)
*Polish: [[perski]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*Russian: [[персидский]] (persídskij) (2)
*Slovak: [[peržan#Slovak|peržan]] {{m}}, [[peržanka]] {{f}} (1); [[peržština]] {{f}} (2)
*Spanish: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*Swahili: [[Kiajemi]] (2)
*Swedish: [[perser]] {{m}} {{p}}, [[persiska]] {{f}} (1,2)
*Turkish: [[farsça]] (2)
*Urdu: {{FAchar|[[ایرانی]]}} (irâni), {{FAchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of, from, or pertaining to Persia.
# Of or pertaining to the Persian people.
# Of or pertaining to the Persian language.

====Synonyms====
*[[Iranian]] (2)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|from or pertaining to Persia}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to the Persian people}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to the Persian language}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Azeri}}: [[fars]]
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[персийски]] (persíjski) {{m}} & {{p}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[波斯]]的 (bōsī de) (1), [[波斯人]]的 (bōsīrén de) (2); [[波斯语]]的 (bōsīyǔ de) (3)
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: [[persisk]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[Perzisch]], [[Perzische]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[persa]]
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[persialainen]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[persan]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[persisch]]
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[περσικός]] (persikós)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ペルシア]] (pérushia) (1), [[ペルシアの]] (pérushia no) (2), [[ペルシア人]] (pérushia-jin) (3)
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[farisî]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[persisk]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[ایرانی]]}} (irâni), {{FAchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[perski]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[persa]] ''m/f''
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[персидский]] (persídskij)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[perzský]] {{m}}, [[perzská]] {{f}}, [[perzské]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[persa]] ''m/f''
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[persisk]], [[persiska]]
*{{ttbc|Tatar}}: [[farsí]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[İran]]
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{URchar|[[ایرانی]]}} (irâni), {{URchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi)

===External links===
{{ethnologue|code=pes}}
*[http://www.aryanpour.com/ English-Persian and Persian-English dictionary]

[[Category:Cats]]
[[Category:Languages]]

[[fa:Persian]]
[[gu:Persian]]
[[hi:Persian]]
[[ku:Persian]]
[[fi:Persian]]
[[zh:Persian]]