==English==

===Alternative forms===
{{rel-top5|Obsolete variants}}
* [[perspicuite]] {{defdate|15<sup>th</sup> C.}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* [[perspicuitie]] {{defdate|15<sup>th</sup>–16<sup>th</sup> CC.}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* [[perspicuitye]] {{defdate|16<sup>th</sup> C.}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* [[perspicuyte]] {{defdate|pre-1500}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* [[perspycuitie]] {{defdate|pre-1500}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology===
From the Classical {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|perspicuitas|perspicuitās|transparency”, “lucidity”, “[[self-evidency]]”, {{sense|in post-Classical Latin}} “penetration”, “insight|lang=la}}, from {{term|perspicuus||clear”, “evident|lang=la}}; compare {{term|perspicacity|lang=en}} and the {{etyl|fr|-}} {{term|perspicuité|lang=fr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|pər'spĭkyo͞oʹĭti}}, {{IPA|/ˌpəːspɪˈkjuːɪti/}}, {{SAMPA|/%p@:spI"kju:Iti/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|pər'spəkyo͞oʹədi}}, {{IPA|/ˌpɚspəˈkjuədi/}}, {{SAMPA|/%p@`sp@"kju@di/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[clarity|Clarity]], [[lucidity]], especially in expression; the state or characteristic of being [[perspicuous]].
#* '''1905''', [[w:George_Bernard_Shaw|George Bernard Shaw]], ''The Irrational Knot'', ch. 18,
#*: Whether through the first officer's want of {{q|perspicuity}} or my own stupidity, I was not a bit the wiser for the explanation.
# [[perspicacity|Perspicacity]]; [[insight]].
#* '''1965''', "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,833549,00.html The Stupid Spy]," ''Time'', 19 Mar,
#*: Thompson, a high school dropout, said with rare {{q|perspicuity}} that he doubted the FBI would hire him.
# {{rare}} [[transparency|Transparency]]; [[translucence]].
#* '''1900''', [[w:Edith_Wharton|Edith Wharton]], ''The Touchstone'', ch. 11,
#*: It must have been on some such day of harsh sunlight, the incisive February brightness that gives {{q|perspicuity}} without warmth.

====Synonyms====
* [[perspicuousness]]

====Related terms====
* [[perspicacious]]
* [[perspicaciously]]
* [[perspective]]

===References===
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://ed2.oed.com/cgi/display/00176292 perspicuity]</span>” listed in the ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]]'' [2<sup>nd</sup> Ed.; 1989]
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50176288 perspicuity, ''n.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; Mar. 2010]
* {{R:Webster 1828}}
* {{R:Webster 1913|perspicuity}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|perspicuity}}
* [http://encarta.msn.com/dictionary_/perspicuity.html "perspicuity"] in Encarta® World English Dictionary [North American Edition] © & (P)2007 Microsoft Corporation.
* ''Random House Webster's Unabridged Electronic Dictionary'', 1987-1996.

[[my:perspicuity]]
[[te:perspicuity]]
[[vi:perspicuity]]
[[zh:perspicuity]]