{{was wotd|2009|January|16}}
{{also|philistine}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|Philistines|mul=Philistinism}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[philistine]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|LL.}} {{term|Philistinus|lang=la}}, from Late {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|Φυλιστῖνοι|tr=Phulistinoi|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}, from {{etyl|he|en}} {{term|פלשתים|tr=P'lishtim|lang=he|sc=Hebr|פְּלִשְׁתִּים}}, from {{term|פלשת|פְּלֶשֶׁת|Philistia|tr=P'leshet|lang=he|sc=Hebr}}.

The sense relating to lack of education and culture was introduced to English by [[w:Thomas Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]] and greatly popularised by [[w:Matthew Arnold|Matthew Arnold]]. It is derived from {{etyl|de}} student use of the term {{term|Philister||lang=de}} to refer to the burghers of the town. This apparently derived from the use of the biblical text "the Philistines be upon you, Samson" in a memorial service for a Jena university student who died as the result of a [[town vs. gown]] dispute in 1693.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈfɪl.ɪ.staɪn/}}, {{SAMPA|/"fIl.I.staIn/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈfɪl.ɪ.staɪn/|/ˈfɪl.ə.stin/|/fɪˈlɪ.stin/}}, {{SAMPA|/"fIl.I.staIn/|/"fIl.@.stin/|/fI"lI.stin/}}
* {{audio|en-us-Philistine.ogg|Audio (US)}}, {{audio|en-us-Philistine-3.ogg|Audio (US)}}, {{audio|en-us-Philistine-3.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A person from ancient [[Philistia]].
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Judges|16|23}}
#*: Then the lords of the '''Philistines''' gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice;
# A person who lacks [[appreciation]] of [[art]] or [[culture]].
#: ''It is Shakespearean, you '''philistine'''!''
#* '''1843''' [[:w:Thomas Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', book 2, ch. 4, ''Abbot Hugo''
#*: ''what could poor old Abbot Hugo do?  A frail old man; and the '''Philistines''' were upon him, - that is to say, the Hebrews.''
#* '''2005''', [[w:Plato|Plato]], ''Sophist''. Translation by Lesley Brown. [[w:Stephanus pagination|259d]].
#*: trying to separate everything from everything else is not just poor taste but is the mark of a total '''philistine''' and someone with no feeling for philosophy.

====Related terms====
* [[Palestine]]
* [[Philistia]]
* [[philistine]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|person from Philistia}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փղշտացի|tr=p'ġštac'i}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Filištín|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|filister}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Filistijn|m}}, {{t|nl|Filistijnse|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|filistealainen}}
* French: {{t|fr|Philistin}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|פלשתי|m|tr=P'lishti}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|filiszteus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Filistíneach|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|filisteo}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ペリシテ人|tr=ペリシテじん, perishite-jin}}
* [[Old Irish]]: {{tø|sga|filistín|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|Filistyn|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|filisteu|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|филистимлянин|m|tr=filistíml'anin}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person lacking appreciation of culture}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փղշտացի|tr=p'ġštac'i}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|俗人|tr=súrén|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|barbar|m}}, {{t-|cs|šosák|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|spidsborger}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|moukka}}, {{t-|fi|filisteri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|philistin|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Banause}}, {{t-|de|Kulturbanause}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|filiszter}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|filister|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|filisteu|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|филистер|m|tr=filíster}}, {{t|ru|обыватель|m|tr=obyvátel'}}, {{t|ru|мещанин|m|tr=meščanín}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|bracka}}, {{t|sv|kälkborgare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or pertaining to the ancient Philistines.
# Lacking appreciation of culture; also [[philistine]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of or pertaining to the Philistines}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Filistijns}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|filistealainen}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Filistíneach}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|filistyński|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|филистимский|sc=Cyrl|tr=filistímskij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|philistine}}

[[hu:Philistine]]
[[pl:Philistine]]