==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[physico-theology]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|physicotheologies}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy|theology|dated}} The view that [[evidence]] and sound [[argument]]s for [[God]][['s]] [[existence]] can be [[derive]]d from a study of the [[natural]] [[world]]; a study of the natural world [[intend]]ed to provide such evidence.
#* '''1713''', [[w:William_Derham|William Derham]], '''''Physico-Theology''', or, A Demonstration of the Being and Attributes of God, from His Works of Creation'', 5th ed. (1720), London, book I, p. 36:
#*: What else can be concluded, but that all was made with magnificent Design, and that all the whole Structure is the Work of some intelligent Being; some Artist, of Power and Skill equivalent to such a Work?
#* '''1865''', "Büchner's Force and Matter," ''Anthropological Review'', vol. 3, no. 8, p. 28:
#*: We have been rather severe in the foregoing observations on Dr. Büchner's work, because it belongs to a school of '''physico-theology''', which, whether on the affirmative or negative side, we hold to be equally opposed to the true interests of science.
#* '''1989''', Thomas B. Gilmore, "Implicit Criticism of Thomson's 'Seasons' in Johnson's 'Dictionary'," ''Modern Philology'', vol. 86, no. 3, p. 269:
#*: Indeed, ''Creation'', like a number of passages in ''The Seasons'', furnishes excellent examples of '''physicotheology''', helpfully defined by Harry Solomon as "the use of the scientific examination of nature to establish and raise admiration for the existence and providence of God."
#* '''2002''', "Abstracts of Colloquium Papers: 'On Kant's Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God' by Martin Schönfeld," ''Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association'', vol. 75, no. 3, p. 127:
#*: Some claim that Kant's discussion amounts to a refutation of '''physicotheology''' and thus does not result in an argument from design.

===See also===
* [[argument from design]] / [[teleological argument]]
* [[intelligent design]]

===References===
* ''Dictionary of Philosophy'', [[w:Dagobert D. Runes|Dagobert D. Runes]] (ed.), Philosophical Library, 1962. ''See:'' "Physico-Theology" by [[w:Vergilius Ferm|Vergilius Ferm]], p. 235.

* ''The Encyclopedia of Philosophy'', [[w:Paul Edwards (philosopher)|Paul Edwards]] (ed.), Macmillan, 1967. ''See:'' "Physicotheology" by Meyrick H. Carré, vol. 6, pp. 300-305.