{{also|pīng|píng|pìng}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Ping (disambiguation)|ping}}
===Etymology===
[[onomatopoeic|Onomatopoeic]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/pɪŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/pIN/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪŋ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound.
#: ''My car used to make an odd '''ping''', but after the last oil change it went away.''
# {{italbrac|submarine navigation}} A pulse of high-pitched or ultrasonic sound whose echoes provide information about nearby objects and vessels.
#: ''The submarine sent out a '''ping''' and got an echo from a battleship.''
# {{networking}} A packet which a remote [[host]] is expected to echo, thus indicating its presence.
#: ''The network is overloaded from all the '''pings''' going out.''
# {{context|text messaging|internet}} An [[email]] or other message sent requesting acknowledgement.
#: ''I sent a '''ping''' to the insurance company to see if they received our claim.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound}}
* Finnish: [[kilahdus]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A pulse of high-pitched or ultrasonic sound}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A packet which a remote host is expected to echo}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An email or other message sent requesting acknowledgement}}
* Finnish: [[kilahdus]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[beep]]
* [[peep]]
* [[ping pong]]
* [[ACK]]
* [[heartbeat]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pings|pinging|pinged}}

# To make a high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound.
#: ''My car was '''pinging''' until my last oil change.''
# {{italbrac|submarine navigation}} To emit a signal and then listen for its echo in order to detect objects.
# {{networking}} To send a packet in order to determine whether a [[host]] is present, particularly by use of the ping utility.
#: ''I'm '''pinging''' their server.''
#: ''The server '''pings''' its affiliates periodically.''
# {{networking}} To ping and receive an acknowledgement.
#: ''I can't '''ping''' their server: perhaps it's been switched off.''
# To send an email or other message to someone in hopes of eliciting a response.
#: ''I'll '''ping''' the insurance company again to see if they've received our claim.''
# {{colloquial}} To [[flick]].
#: ''I '''pinged''' the crumb off the table with my finger.''
# {{context|colloquial|sports|intransitive}} To [[bounce]].
#: ''The ball '''pinged''' off the wall and came hurtling back.''
# {{context|colloquial|sports|transitive}} To cause something to bounce.
#*{{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 29
|author=Chris Whyatt  
|title=Chelsea 1 - 0 Bolton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9309542.stm
|page=
|passage=Charging through the Bolton midfield to find a free moment, Essien then '''pinged''' the ball into the space into which Drogba was intelligently running. }}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To make a high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kilahtaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To emit a signal and then listen for its echo in order to detect objects}}
* Finnish: [[kaikuluodata]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To send a packet in order to determine whether a host is present}}
* Finnish: [[pingata]] (''colloquial'')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To ping and receive an acknowledgement}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To send an email or other message to someone in hopes of eliciting a response}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To flick}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To bounce}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kimmota}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To cause something to bounce}}
* Finnish: [[kimmottaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[poll]] ''networking''

[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''ping'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[pīng]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[píng]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[pìng]]}}

====Usage notes====
Transcriptions of Chinese speech without tone markings fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, e.g. using syllables such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

[[et:ping]]
[[fa:ping]]
[[fr:ping]]
[[io:ping]]
[[ru:ping]]
[[fi:ping]]
[[ta:ping]]
[[vi:ping]]
[[zh:ping]]