{{also|Pip|PIP|pip pip}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|pip}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|pĭp}}, {{IPA|/pɪp/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-pip.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪp|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|pippe}}, from Middle {{etyl|nl|en}} {{m|nl|pip}}, from post-classical {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|pipita}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|pītuīta}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of various [[respiratory]] diseases in [[birds]], especially infectious [[coryza]]. {{defdate|from the 15th c.}}
# {{lb|en|humorous}} Of humans, a [[disease]], [[malaise]] or [[depression]].
#* {{w|D. H. Lawrence}}, letter to Edward Garnett
#*: I've got the '''pip''' horribly at present.
#* {{quote-book
|year=1960
|author={{w|P. G. Wodehouse}}
|title={{w|Jeeves in the Offing}}
|section=chapter IV
|passage=With this deal Uncle Tom's got on with Homer Cream, it would be fatal to risk giving [Mrs Cream] the '''pip''' in any way.}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|like a chicken with the pip}}

===Etymology 2===
Apparently representing a shortened form of {{m|en|pippin}}, from {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|pipin}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|pepin||a seed}} (French {{m|fr|pépin}}).

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[pippin]].
# {{lb|en|UK}} A seed inside certain fleshy fruits (compare [[stone]]/[[pit]]), such as a [[peach]], [[orange]], or [[apple]].
# {{lb|en|US|colloquial}} Something or someone [[excellent]], of high quality.
#* '''2006''', Thomas Pynchon, ''Against the Day'', Vintage 2007, p. 612:
#*: She sure is a '''pip''', that one. You need company?
# {{lb|en|British|dated|WW I|signalese}} [[P]] in {{w|RAF phonetic alphabet}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|pip emma}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|seed}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|果仁|tr=guǒrén|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pit|m}}
* Finnish: [[siemen]] (orange, apple), [[kivi]] (peach)
* French: {{t+|fr|pépin|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zacken|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κουκούτσι|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mag}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|seme|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|種|tr=たね, tane|sc=Jpan}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|sheel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kākano}}
* Portuguese: [[caroço]] {{g|m}}; [[semente]] {{g|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ко́сточка|f}}, {{t+|ru|зёрнышко|n}}, {{t+|ru|се́мечко|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pipa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kärna|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|buto}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
* Zulu: {{t+|zu|inhlamvu|c9|c10}}, {{t|zu|uhlamvu|c11|c10}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Origin uncertain, perhaps related to Etymology 2, above.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# One of the spots or symbols on a [[playing card]], [[domino]], [[die]], etc.
# {{lb|en|military|public service}} One of the [[stars]] worn on the shoulder of a uniform to denote rank, e.g. of a [[soldier]] or a [[fireman]].
# A spot; a speck.
# A spot of light or an inverted V indicative of a return of radar waves reflected from an object; a blip.
# A piece of [[rhizome]] with a [[dormant]] [[shoot]] of the [[lily of the valley]] plant, used for [[propagation]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|symbol on playing card etc}} {{l|en|spot}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|dot, symbol on domino, die, etc.}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|အပွင့်|sc=Mymr}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stip|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piste}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|öga|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pips|pipping|pipped}}

# To [[get the better of]]; to [[defeat]] by a narrow margin
#: ''He led throughout the race but was '''pipped''' at the post.''
# To [[hit]] with a [[gunshot]]
#: ''The hunter managed to '''pip''' three ducks from his blind.''

===Etymology 4===
Imitative.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pips|pipping|pipped}}

# To [[peep]], to [[chirp]]
# {{lb|en|avian biology}} To make the initial hole during the process of hatching from an egg

===Etymology 5===
Imitative.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
{{examples-right|examples={{audio|Gts (bbc) pips.ogg|the sound of the BBC pips|lang=en}}}}

# One of a series of very short, electronically produced [[tone]]s, used, for example, to count down the final few seconds before a given [[time]] or to indicate that a [[caller]] using a [[payphone]] needs to make further payment if he is to continue his call.
#* '''1982''' John Banville, ''The Newton Letter''
#*: I could clearly hear the frequent cataclysms of the upstairs lavatory, and my day began with the '''pips''' for the morning news in Charlotte Lawless's kitchen.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|electronic sound|counting down seconds}} {{l|en|stroke}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|short electronically produced tone}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|piep|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piippaus}}, {{t|fi|piippi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|top|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pip|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 6===
{{abbreviation of|[[percentage]] in [[point]]|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|finance|currency trading}} The smallest price [[increment]] between two currencies in foreign exchange ([[forex]]) trading.
#* '''2012''', Abe Cofnas, ''The Forex Trading Course''
#*: The set-and-forget trader is playing fundamental direction and is seeking very large moves of 150 to 300 '''pips'''.

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|pip to the post}}
* {{l|en|pip at the post}}
* {{l|en|pipsqueak}}
* {{l|en|give the pip}} to, [[give someone the pip]]

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|PPI}}

[[Category:English palindromes]]
[[Category:en:Card games]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology 1===
A descriptive term, similar to German {{m|de|piepen}} and Latin {{m|la|pipīre||}}.

====Verb====
{{sq-verb|pipa|pipur}}

# to [[peep]], to [[chirp]]

===Etymology 2===
From Romance *pīpa, also present in Old French {{m|fro|pipe}}, Italian {{m|it|pipa}} etc.

====Noun====
{{sq-noun|f|pipa|pipa|pipat}}

# [[sprout]], [[shoot]]
# [[pipe]], [[tube]]

----

==Danish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pip/|[pʰib̥]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|stem=pipp|et}}

# [[chirp]], [[peep]], [[tweet]]
# [[bleep]]

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=pipp|et}}

===Noun===
{{head|da|noun|g=n}}

# [[nonsense]], [[gibberish]], [[madness]]

[[Category:Danish palindromes]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nl|dum|pip||disease of poultry, also of people}}, from post-classical {{der|nl|la|pipita}}, from {{der|nl|la|pītuīta||slime, head cold}}.

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-|-}}

# [[#English|Pip]] (any of various [[respiratory]] diseases in [[birds]], especially infectious [[coryza]]).
# {{lb|nl|humorous or colloquial}} Of humans, a [[disease]] (particularly the [[common cold]] or the [[flu]]), [[malaise]] or [[depression]].

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nl|pips}}
* {{l|nl|de pip krijgen}}

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|plipe}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n}}

# [[squeak]], [[beep]]

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-n-zero}}

===Verb===
{{head|sv|verb form}}

# {{sv-verb-form-imp|pipa}}

[[Category:Swedish palindromes]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[pipe]] (for smoking)

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|vo|smokön}}
* {{l|vo|tabak}}

[[cs:pip]]
[[da:pip]]
[[fa:pip]]
[[fr:pip]]
[[ko:pip]]
[[hy:pip]]
[[io:pip]]
[[kn:pip]]
[[ku:pip]]
[[hu:pip]]
[[mg:pip]]
[[my:pip]]
[[nl:pip]]
[[pl:pip]]
[[ru:pip]]
[[sq:pip]]
[[fi:pip]]
[[sv:pip]]
[[tl:pip]]
[[ta:pip]]
[[te:pip]]
[[vi:pip]]
[[vo:pip]]
[[zh:pip]]