==English==

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[speak up]], especially in a [[robust]], [[assertive]] manner; to say something suddenly.
#* '''1883''', {{w|Robert Louis Stevenson}}, ''{{w|Treasure Island}}'':
#*: "You seem to have a lot to say," remarked Silver, spitting far into the air. "'''Pipe up''' and let me hear it, or lay to."
#* '''1994''', {{w|Haruki Murakami}}, ''{{w|Dance Dance Dance}}'':
#*: Once I asked a seventeen-year-old singer something that wasn't on the list, which caused her manager to '''pipe up''': "That wasn't what we agreed on. She doesn't have to answer that."
#* {{quote-journal|en|year=2008|month=October|author=Davy Rothbart|title=How I caught up with dad|journal={{w|Men's Health}}|volume=23|issue=8|issn=1054-4836|page={{gbooks|VMgDAAAAMBAJ|112|piping|up}}|passage=As we rolled into our fourth week, I found myself '''piping up''' with some of my own stories.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To being [[sing]]ing or playing [[musical]] [[note]]s on a pipe or similar [[wind instrument]].
#* '''1871''', [[w:Louisa May Alcott|Louisa May Alcott]], ''Little Men'', ch. 12:
#*: [T]he frogs in a neighboring marsh began to '''pipe up''' for the evening concert.
#* '''1907''', [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''Chapters from My Autobiography'', ch. 16:
#*: But presently the gray dawn stole over the world, the birds '''piped up''', then the sun rose and poured light and comfort all around.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|of wind, etc.}} To begin to blow more [[vigorous]]ly.
#* '''1911''', [[w:Jack London|Jack London]], "Make Westing" in ''When God Laughs and Other Stories'':
#*: Once, for ten minutes, the sun shone at midday, and ten minutes afterward a new gale was '''piping up'''.
# {{lb|en|transitive|rare}} To call, [[awaken]], or [[summon]], as with a musical instrument.
#* '''1898''', {{w|J. Meade Falkner}}, {{w|Moonfleet}}, chapter 5:
#*: Yet beyond turning my blood cold for a moment, it gave me little trouble, for evil tales have hung about the church; and though I did not set much store by the old yarns of Blackbeard '''piping up''' his crew, yet I thought strange things might well go on among the graves at night. And so I never budged, nor stirred hand or foot to save a fellow-creature in his agony.

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|pipe down}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eipppu|puppie}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (up)]]
[[Category:en:Talking]]