{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Old French ''pipe'', from {{VL.}} ''*[[pipa]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-pipe.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪp|-aɪp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A hollow tube that transports water, steam, or other liquid; usually made of metal, ceramic, wood, or plastic.
# A hollow stem with bowl at one end used for smoking (see also [[water pipe]] or [[bong]])
# {{geology}} A vertical [[conduit]] through the Earth's [[crust]] below a [[volcano]], through which [[magma]] has passed; often filled with volcanic [[breccia]]
# A type of [[pasta]], similar to [[macaroni]]
# Decorative edging stitched to the hems or seams of an object made of fabric (clothing, hats, pillows, curtains, etc.); often a contrasting color
# {{music}} A hollow tube used to produce sound, such as an [[organ pipe]].
# {{music}} A wind instrument making a whistling sound. (see [[pan pipes]], [[bagpipe]], [[boatswain's pipe]])
# {{lacrosse}} One of the [[goalpost]]s of the [[goal]].
# {{computing}} The [[ASCII]] character at position 124 (decimal), 7C (hex), 01111100 (binary): " '''|''' "
# {{computing}} In [[Unix]], the pipe character signifies that the output of one program feeds directly as input to another program.
# {{context|computing|slang}} A [[data backbone]], or [[broadband]] Internet access (e.g., a "fat pipe" refers to a high-bandwidth connection).
# {{obsolete}} An English measure of capacity for liquids, containing 126 wine gallons; half a ton.
#* '''1882''': Again, by 28 Hen. VIII, cap. 14, it is re-enacted that the tun of wine should contain 252 gallons, a butt of Malmsey 126 gallons, a pipe 126 gallons, a tercian or puncheon 84 gallons, a hogshead 63 gallons, a tierce 41 gallons, a barrel 31.5 gallons, a rundlet 18.5 gallons. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', p. 205.
# {{context|AU|colloquial|obsolete}} An anonymous satire or essay, insulting and frequently libelous, written on a piece of paper and left somewhere public where it could be found and thus spread, to embarrass the author's enemies.
#: 1818: ''yet, it is much to be hoped, that from his example ''pipe-making''<!-- NB italics in the original --> will in future be reposed solely in the hands of Mr. William Cluer of the Brickfield Hill.'' &mdash; [[w:Sydney Gazette|Sydney Gazette]], 26 September 1818, on [[w:William Bland|William Bland]] convicted of libelling [[w:Lachlan Macquarie|Governor Macquarie]] in a pipe (William Cluer was an earthenware pipe manufacturer).  Quoted in ''More Pig Bites Baby! Stories from Australia's First Newspaper'', volume 2, ed. Micahel Connor, Duffy and Snellgrove, 2004, ISBN 1-876631-91-0.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hollow tube}}
*German: [[Rohr]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[condotto]] {{m}}
*Latvian [[caurule]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[cano]], [[tubo]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[tuberia]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[rör]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|smoking tool}}
*Czech: [[dýmka]] {{f}}
*German: [[Pfeife]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[pipa]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[cachimbo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[pipa]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[pipa]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|musical instrument}}
*German: [[Flöte]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[flauta]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[flöjt]] {{c}}, [[pipa]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|organ pipe}}
*German: [[Orgelpfeife]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[orgelpipa]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing slang}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[lina]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[Pijp]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Pfeife]] {{f}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[pipa]]
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[rura]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[గొట్టము]] (goTTamu)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pip|ing}}

# To convey or transport something by means of pipes.
# To install or configure pipes.
# To play music on a pipe instrument, such as a [[bagpipe]].
# {{nautical}} To signal or order by a note pattern on a bosun's pipe.
# To decorate a cake using a [[pastry bag]] a flexible bag from which icing is forced through a small nozzle to make various designs

===See also===
*[[brier]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|pip}}

===Noun===
'''pipe''' {{f}}

# tobacco [[#English|pipe]]

----

==Italian==
===Noun===
'''pipe''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|pipa|lang=Italian}}

[[ar:pipe]]
[[de:pipe]]
[[el:pipe]]
[[fa:pipe]]
[[fr:pipe]]
[[io:pipe]]
[[id:pipe]]
[[it:pipe]]
[[kk:pipe]]
[[hu:pipe]]
[[ru:pipe]]
[[simple:pipe]]
[[fi:pipe]]
[[ta:pipe]]
[[vi:pipe]]
[[zh:pipe]]