==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[piss-proud]]

===Etymology===
{{term|piss}} (urine) + {{term|proud}}.  Appears in [[w:Francis Grose|Francis Grose’s]] ''A Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue'' (1796):
:“P<small>ISS-PROUD</small>. Having a false erection. That old fellow thought he had an erection, but his — was only piss-proud; said of any old fellow who marries a young wife”.<ref name="Grose">[http://books.google.com/books?id=TbJKAAAAMAAJ&pg=PT175&dq=%22piss+proud%22 “piss-proud”] in ''A Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue'', Francis Grose, '''1796''', <small>[http://books.google.com/books?id=TbJKAAAAMAAJ&pg=PT175&dq=%22piss+proud%22 Google Books] [http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/5402 Gutenberg Archive]</small></ref>

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|British|vulgar}} Having an [[erection]] when waking from sleep or, more generally or metaphorically, a false or "empty" erection.
#*'''1988''', George O'Brien, ''Dancehall Days'', [http://books.google.com/books?q=%22city%27s+piss+proud%22 p150]
#*: I fucked culture for being unnatural (it was nothing but the city's '''piss-proud''' erection).
# {{context|British|vulgar}} (by extension) Falsely proud, implying an outward display of success or virility belies a [[dubious]] reality.
#*'''2000''', Sandra Gulland, ''The Many Lives and Secret Sorrows of Josephine B'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=rav61X3KZJUC&pg=PA30&dq=%22piss+proud%22&sig=PZbRfpp3zMYe2NpkBKUnnXV_Q0o p30]
#*:And my guess is that his '''piss-proud''' father told him...
#*'''2003''', Maureen Jennings, ''Let Loose the Dogs'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=xoieH39cpzAC&pg=PA291&dq=%22piss+proud%22&sig=1W1Z2F-I7qQWakAd3fwJNPLf6bs p 291]
#*:Full of the strong beer brewed at the camp, the men boasted, '''piss proud''' of their sexual exploits.
# {{context|British|pejorative|dated}} Denoting an old man who marries a young woman, implying the only erection he could muster would be prompted by the bladder.<ref name="Grose"/><ref>'''2003''', Mark Steven Morton, ''The Lover's Tongue: A Merry Romp Through the Language of Love and Sex'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=yIg_2QaT3vAC&pg=PA113&dq=%22piss+proud%22&sig=8wQo4JyiGB876ANXxK2alV1aBY8#PPA113,M1p p113]</ref>
# {{rare}} [[Pee shy]].
#*'''1998''', Richard H. Stratton & Kim Wozencraft, ''Slam: The Book'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=KOAKKLRicaoC&pg=PA106&dq=%22piss+proud%22&sig=wIVandvoqjB2DHDIR4IWQEEj39k p106]
#*:I really have to go, but nothing comes out. Not used to pissing next to twenty strangers. '''Piss proud'''?

====See also====
*[[morning glory]]
*[[morning wood]] {{US}}

===References===
<references/>