{{wikipedia}}
{{also|PIT}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'pɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-pit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[pytt]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A hole in the ground.
# A [[seed]] inside a fruit; a stone or [[pip]] (Eng.) inside a fruit.
# A [[shell]] in a [[drupe]] containing a seed.
# Area at the auto racetrack used for refueling and repairing the cars during a race
# {{music}} A section of the marching band containing [[mallet]] [[percussion]] instruments and other large percussion instruments too large to march, such as the [[tam tam]].  Also, the area on the [[sideline]]s where these instruments are placed.
# A [[mine]].
# {{context|archaeology}} A hole or [[trench]] in the ground, excavated according to [[grid]] coordinates, so that the [[provenance]] of any [[feature]] observed and any specimen or [[artifact]] revealed may be established by precise measurement.
# A [[trading pit]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|hole in the ground}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|gropë|f|xs=Albanian}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հոր|tr=hor|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}, {{t|hy|փոս|tr=p'os|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|jáma|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kuil|m}}, {{t+|nl|put|m}}
* Esperanto: [[kavo]], [[fosaĵo]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuoppa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fosse|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Grube|f}}
* Greek: [[τρίπα]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hawaiian: [[lua]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gödör}}, {{t-|hu|verem}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|lubang|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fossa|f}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[കുഴി]] (kuzhi)
* Maori: {{t+|mi|rua|xs=Maori}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|groapă|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|foso|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|seed or stone inside a fruit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kivi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the stone of a drupaceous fruit}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pecka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pit|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kivi}}, {{t+|fi|siemen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kern|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κουκούτσι|n|sc=Grek}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[గొయ్యి]] (goyyi)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|area for racing cars}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pit|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|varikko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Box|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|box|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: section of a marching band}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|mine}}

{{trans-top|archaeology: excavation hole}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuoppa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|trading pit}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pit-eye]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|dum}} ''pit''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pit|t|ed}}

# {{transitive}} To bring into opposition, as in "to pit one's wits against someone".
# {{transitive}} To make pits in.
#: ''Exposure to acid rain '''pitted''' the metal.''
# {{transitive}} To remove the [[stone]] from a stone fruit or the shell from a drupe.
#: ''One must '''pit''' a peach to make it ready for a pie.''
# {{context|intransitive|motor racing}} To return to the pits during a race for refuelling, tyre changes, repairs etc.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bring into opposition}}
* Finnish: [[panna tappelemaan]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[pit stop]] (3)

===Anagrams===
* [[tip]]

----

==[[Catalan]]==

===Etymology===
Latin [[pectus]]. Compare Italian ''[[petto]]'', Portuguese ''[[peito]]'', Romanian ''[[piept]]'', Spanish ''[[pecho]]''

===Noun===
'''pit''' {{m}}

# [[breast]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''pit'''

# A seed inside a fruit.
# [[Spirit]]
#* 'Hij heeft pit' : He has something going for him.

====Pronunciation====

* {{IPA|pɪt|lang=nl}}

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Irish==

===Noun===
{{infl|ga|noun|g=f}}

# [[vulva]]

====Declension====
{{ga-noun-f2|p|it|ite|pl=iteanna}}

----

==Scots==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɪt/|lang=sco}}

===Verb===
{{sco-verb|pits|pittin|pit|pit}}

# {{South Scots}} to [[put]]

====Synonyms====
* [[putt]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Noun===
{{infl|gd|noun|g=f|plural|pitean}}

# [[female]] [[external]] [[genitalia]], [[vulva]]
# {{vulgar|lang=gd}} [[cunt]], [[pussy]]

[[Category:gd:Anatomy]]
[[Category:gd:Vulgarities]]

[[de:pit]]
[[el:pit]]
[[es:pit]]
[[fa:pit]]
[[fr:pit]]
[[io:pit]]
[[it:pit]]
[[ku:pit]]
[[lo:pit]]
[[hu:pit]]
[[nl:pit]]
[[oc:pit]]
[[ru:pit]]
[[simple:pit]]
[[fi:pit]]
[[ta:pit]]
[[te:pit]]
[[th:pit]]
[[vi:pit]]
[[vo:pit]]
[[zh:pit]]