{{wikipedia|dab=pitch}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɪtʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-pitch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪtʃ}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|pic|piċ|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|pix|lang=la}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[sticky]], [[gummy]] substance secreted by trees; [[sap]].
#: ''It is hard to get this '''pitch''' off of my hand.''
# A [[dark]], extremely [[viscous]] material remaining in still after [[distill]]ing [[crude oil]] and [[tar]].
#: ''They put '''pitch''' on the mast to protect it.'' ''The barrel was sealed with '''pitch'''.''
#: ''It was '''pitch''' black because there was no moon.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pitch-black]], [[pitchblack]]
* [[pitchblende]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sticky, gummy substance secreted by trees}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|smůla|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hars}}
* [[Eastern Penan]]: {{tø|pez|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pihka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|résine|f}}, {{t+|fr|sève|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Harz|n}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|resina|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|żywica|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|seiva|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|răşină|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|смола|tr=smolá|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|brea|f}},  {{t|es|pez|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dark, extremely viscous material made by distilling tar}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[pik]]
* Albanian: [[pisë]] {{f}}
* Croatian: [[smola]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|pek|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poix|f}}, {{t+|fr|brai|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pech|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szurok}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pece|f}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|pix|f}}
* Polish: [[smoła]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|piche|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|smoală|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дёготь|m|tr=d'ógot'|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pez|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|beck|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|pitch||lang=enm|to thrust in, fasten, settle}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} <!--{{term|piccan||lang=enm}}, {{term|piccian||lang=enm}}.-->

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{baseball}} The act of pitching a baseball.
#: ''The '''pitch''' was low and inside.''
# {{sports}} The field on which [[cricket]], [[soccer]], [[rugby]] or [[hockey|field hockey]] is played.
#: ''The teams met on the '''pitch'''.
# An effort to [[sell]] or [[promote]] something.
#: ''He gave me a sales '''pitch'''.''
# The [[distance]] between evenly spaced objects, e.g. the [[teeth]] of a [[saw]], the turns of a screw thread, or [[letters]] in a [[monospace]] [[font]].
#: ''The '''pitch''' of pixels on the point scale is 72 pixels per inch''.
#: ''The '''pitch''' of this saw is perfect for that type of wood.''
# The [[angle]] at which an object sits.
#: ''The '''pitch''' of the roof or haystack''
# More specifically, the rotation angle about the transverse axis.
# {{aviation}} A measure of the degree to which an aircraft's nose tilts up or down. 
#: ''The '''pitch''' of an aircraft''
# {{aviation}} A measure of the [[angle of attack]] of a [[propeller]].
#: ''The propellor blades' '''pitch'''''
# {{nautical}} The measure of extent to which a nautical vessel rotates on its [[athwartships]] axis, causing its bow and stern to go up and down. Compare with [[roll]], [[yaw]] and [[heave]].
# The place where a [[busker]] performs.
# An area in a market (or similar) allocated to a particular trader.
# An intensity.
#* '''1748''', [[w:David Hume|David Hume]], ''[[w:Enquiries concerning the human understanding and concerning the principles of moral]]''  London: Oxford University Press, 1973.  § 11.
#*: But, except the mind be disordered by disease or madness, they never can arrive at such a '''pitch''' of vivacity
# {{mountaineering}} A section of a climb or rock face; specifically, the climbing distance between [[belays]] or [[stances]].
# {{caving}} A vertical cave passage, only negotiable by using rope or ladders.
#: '' The entrance '''pitch''' requires 30 metres of rope. ''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|the act of pitching a baseball}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|syöttö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lancer|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wurf}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|servizio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rzut|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arremesso|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|aruncare}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|lanzamiento|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the field on which cricket, soccer, rugby or field hockey is played}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kenttä}}, {{t-|fi|nurmi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|terrain|m}}
* Italian: [[campo]] {{m}} <ref name=oxf-par />
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pole|n}} (do krykieta), {{t+|pl|boisko|n}} (do rugby)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|campo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|teren}}
* Slovak: [[ihrisko]]
* Spanish: {{t|es|campo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|effort to sell or promote something}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|myyntipuhe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laïus|m}}, {{t+|fr|argument|m}}, {{t+|fr|présentation|f}}
* German: [[Verkaufsgespräch]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|promozione|m}}, {{t+|it|sostegno|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|prezentare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distance between evenly spaced objects}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jako}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pas|m}}, {{t+|fr|écartement|m}}
* German: {{t-|de|Teilung|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|pas}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|distancia|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the angle at which an object sits}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kallistus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|inclinaison|f}}, {{t+|fr|angle|m}}, {{t+|fr|pente|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Neigung|f}}, {{t+|de|Steigung|f}}
* Italian: [[inclinazione]] {{f}}, [[pendenza]] {{f}} <ref name=oxf-par />
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kąt|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|inclinare}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|declive}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|level or degree}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taso}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|grau|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pitch|es}}

# {{transitive}} To [[throw]].
#: ''He '''pitched''' the horseshoe.''
# {{context|baseball|transitive|or|intransitive}} To throw (the [[ball]]) toward home plate.
#: {{i|transitive}} ''The hurler '''pitched''' a curveball.''
#: {{i|intransitive}} ''He '''pitched''' high and inside.''
# {{context|baseball|intransitive}} To play baseball in the position of pitcher.
#: ''Bob '''pitches''' today.''
# {{transitive}} To throw away; [[discard]].
#: ''He '''pitched''' the candy wrapper.''
# {{transitive}} To [[promote]], advertise, or attempt to sell.
#: ''He '''pitched''' the idea for months with no takers.''
# {{transitive}} To deliver in a certain tone or style, or with a certain audience in mind.
#: ''At which level should I '''pitch''' my presentation?''
# {{transitive}} To assemble or [[erect]] (a [[tent]]).
#: '' '''Pitch''' the tent over there.''
# {{aviation|or|nautical|ambitransitive}} To move so that the [[front]] of an [[aircraft]] or [[ship]] goes alternatively [[up]] and [[down]].
#: {{i|transitive}} ''The typhoon '''pitched''' the deck of the ship.''
#: {{i|intransitive}} ''The airplane '''pitched'''.''
# {{context|golf|transitive}} To play a short, high, lofty shot that lands with [[backspin]].
#: ''The only way to get on the green from here is to pitch the ball over the bunker.''
# {{context|cricket|intransitive}} To bounce on the playing surface.
#: ''The ball '''pitched''' well short of the batsman.''
# {{context|Bristolian dialect|of snow|intransitive}} To [[settle]] and build up, without [[melt]]ing.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to throw}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lancer}}
* German: {{t+|de|werfen}}
* Italian: [[gettare]] <ref name=oxf-par>''Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese (in collaborazione con Oxford University Press)''. Edited by Maria Cristina Bareggi. Torino: Paravia, 2003. [[W:Wikipedia:book sources| ISBN 8839551107]]. Online version [http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ here]</ref>
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arremessar}}
* Romanian: a [[lansa]], a [[arunca]]
* Spanish: {{t|es|echar}},  {{t|es|lanzar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: to throw the ball toward home plate}}
* Dutch: [[gooien]] or [[werpen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heittää}}
* French: [[lancer]];
* German: {{t+|de|werfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[lanciare]] <ref name=oxf-par />, [[servire]] <ref name=oxf-par />
* Portuguese: [[arremessar]]
* Romanian: a [[arunca]]
* Spanish: {{t|es|echar}},  {{t|es|lanzar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to play baseball in the position of pitcher}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syöttää}}
* German: {{t+|de|stampfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|servire}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw away; discard}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|heittää menemään}}
* French: [[jeter]];
* German: [[wegwerfen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[buttare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
* Portuguese: [[jogar fora]]; [[descartar]]
* Romanian: a [[arunca]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to promote, advertise, or attempt to sell}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaupata}}, {{t+|fi|myydä}}, {{t+|fi|mainostaa}}
* French: [[promouvoir]];
* Italian: {{t+|it|promuovere}}, {{t+|it|sostenere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[vender]];
* Romanian: a [[promova]], a [[prezenta]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to assemble or erect (a tent)}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pystyttää}}
* French: [[monter]];
* German: {{t-|de|aufschlagen}}
* Italian: [[piantare]], [[rizzare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|armar}}
* Romanian: a [[monta]], a [[ridica]]
* Spanish: {{t|es|armar}},  {{t|es|plantar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move so that the front of the craft goes alternatively up and down}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|keinuttaa}} (''transitive or impersonal''), {{t-|fi|keinua}} (''intransitive'')
* German: [[stampfen]] (of ships);  [[neigen]] (of aircraft)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[beccheggiare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
* Romanian: a [[oscila]] [[longitudinal]], a [[tanga]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: to bounce on the playing surface}}
* Romanian: a [[sari]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of snow, to settle and build up, without melting}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kinostua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|crescere}}, {{t-|it|accumularsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[acumular]] (neve não-derretida)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
{{rel-top}}
* [[absolute pitch]]
* [[perfect pitch]]
* [[pitch-a-fit]]
* [[pitch a tent]]
* [[pitch and putt]]
* [[pitch class]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[pitcher]]
* [[pitchfork]]
* [[pitch in]]
* [[pitch-pipe]]
* [[relative pitch]]
* [[sales pitch]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Unknown

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{music}} The perceived [[frequency]] of a [[sound]] or [[note]].
#: ''The '''pitch''' of middle "C" is familiar to many musicians.''
# {{music}} In an [[a cappella]] group, the [[singer]] responsible for singing a [[note]] for the other members to [[tune]] themselves by.
#: '' Bob, our '''pitch''', let out a clear middle "C" and our conductor gave the signal to start.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|the perceived frequency of a sound or note}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|toonhoogte|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|sävelkorkeus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ton|m}}, {{t+|fr|diapason|m}}
* German: [[Tonhöhe]] {{f}}, [[Tonlage]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: [[titinada]]
* Italian: [[altezza]] {{f}} <ref name=oxf-par />
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ton}}, {{t-|ro|înălţime|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|tono|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pitch|es}}
# To produce a note of a given pitch.

===References===
* {{R:1913}}
* <references/>

[[fa:pitch]]
[[fr:pitch]]
[[io:pitch]]
[[kk:pitch]]
[[hu:pitch]]
[[nl:pitch]]
[[pl:pitch]]
[[pt:pitch]]
[[fi:pitch]]
[[ta:pitch]]
[[te:pitch]]
[[vi:pitch]]
[[tr:pitch]]
[[zh:pitch]]