==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|planke|lang=fro}}, {{etyl|ONF.}} {{term|planque|lang=fro}} (compare French {{term|planche|lang=fr}}, from Old French {{term|planche|lang=fro}}), from {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{term|planca|lang=la}}, probably from {{recons|palanca|lang=VL.}} (ultimately from {{etyl|la}} {{term|phalanga|lang=la}}) possibly through the influence of {{term|planus|lang=la}}. Cf. also the doublet {{term|planch}}, borrowed later from Middle French.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/plæŋk/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/pleɪŋk/|/plæŋk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-plank.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æŋk}}
* {{homophones|Planck}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A long, broad and thick piece of [[timber]], as opposed to a [[board]] which is less thick.
# A political [[issue]] that is of concern to a faction or a party of the [[people]] and the political position that is taken on that issue.
# Physical exercise in which one holds a [[pushup]] position for a measured length of time.
# {{British|slang}} A [[stupid]] person.

====Derived terms====
* [[plank spanker]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|long, broad and thick piece of timber}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|dhogë|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|板|tr=bǎn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|板子|tr=bǎnzi|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|木板|tr=mùbǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|plank|m|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|tabulo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lankku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|planche|f}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Planke|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σανίδα|f|tr=sanída}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|clár|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tavola}},  {{t+|it|asse}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|厚板|tr=あついた, atsuita|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|板|tr=いた, ita|sc=Jpan}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|goldskaļs}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|dēlis|m}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|papan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|deska|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|scândură|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|доска|f|tr=doská|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|планка|f|tr=plánka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|планка|f}}, {{t-|sh|фосна|f}}, {{t-|sh|талпа|f}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|planka|f}}, {{t-|sh|fosna|f}}, {{t-|sh|talpa|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tablón}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|planka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|political issue}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|periaate}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schwerpunkt|m}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|пункт программы|m|tr=punkt prográmmy|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|artículo}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|programpunkt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To cover something with [[planking]].
#: ''to '''plank''' a floor or a ship''
#* Dryden
#*: '''Planked''' with pine.
# {{transitive}} To bake (fish) on a piece of cedar lumber.
# {{transitive|colloquial}} To lay down, as on a plank or table; to stake or pay cash.
#: ''to '''plank''' money in a wager''
# {{transitive}} To [[harden]], as [[hat]] [[body|bodies]], by [[felting]].
# To [[splice]] together the ends of [[sliver]]s of [[wool]], for subsequent [[draw]]ing.
# {{intransitive}} To pose for a photograph while lying rigid, face down, arms at side, in an unusual place.
#* '''2011''' May 23, ''[http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/more-news/party-finishes-up-in-plonking-after-attempt-at-planking-in-kingsford/story-fn7x8me2-1226060761762 Party finishes up in plonking after attempt at '''planking''' in Kingsford]'', in ''[[w:Herald Sun|Herald Sun]]'',
#*: The woman, known as Claudia, fell from a 2m wall after earlier demonstrating the wrong way to '''plank''' on a small stool while holding a bottle of wine. A friend said some guests had not heard of '''planking''' and Claudia was demonstrating how ridiculous it was.
#* '''2011''' May 24, ''[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/travel/news/tourists-snapped-planking-at-landmarks-around-the-world/story-e6frg8ro-1226061830073 Tourists snapped planking at iconic landmarks around the world]'', in ''[[w:The Australian|The Australian]],
#*: Perth man Simon Carville became an internet sensation after he was photographed '''planking''' naked in the arms of famous Perth statue the Eliza.

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ONF.|nl}} {{term|planke|lang=fro}} (compare regular {{etyl|fro|nl}} {{term|planche|lang=fro}}), from {{etyl|LL.|nl}} {{term|planca|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɑŋk|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|f|planken|plankje}}

# a [[shelf#English|shelf]]
# a (wooden) [[#English|plank]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=n}}

# a high wooden fence which completely prevents any seeing-through

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}

====Compounds====
* [[bullerplank]]

[[et:plank]]
[[es:plank]]
[[eo:plank]]
[[fr:plank]]
[[ko:plank]]
[[io:plank]]
[[id:plank]]
[[kn:plank]]
[[lv:plank]]
[[li:plank]]
[[hu:plank]]
[[mg:plank]]
[[ml:plank]]
[[my:plank]]
[[fj:plank]]
[[nl:plank]]
[[pl:plank]]
[[pt:plank]]
[[ru:plank]]
[[fi:plank]]
[[sv:plank]]
[[ta:plank]]
[[te:plank]]
[[vi:plank]]
[[zh:plank]]