==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{italbrac|[[RP]]}}: {{IPA|/plɑːnt/, /plænt/}}
* {{italbrac|US}}: {{IPA|/plænt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-plant.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːnt|-ɑːnt]]

===Etymology 1===
From {{L.}} {{term|planta|lang=la}}, later influenced by French {{term|plante}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[organism]] that is not an animal, especially an organism capable of photosynthesis. Typically a small or herbaceous organism of this kind, rather than a [[tree]].
#:''The garden had a couple of trees, and a cluster of colourful '''plants''' around the border.''
# {{botany}} An [[organism]] of the kingdom ''Plantae''; now specifically, a living organism of the ''Embryophyta'' (land plants) or of the ''Chlorophyta'' (green algae), a eukaryote that includes double-membraned chloroplasts in its cells containing chlorophyll ''a'' and ''b'', or any organism closely related to such an organism.
# {{context|ecology}} Now specifically, a multicellular [[eukaryote]] that includes [[chloroplast]]s in its [[cell]]s, which have a cell wall.
# An industrial [[installation]], specifically the [[apparatus]] or [[machinery]].
# A [[factory]] or other industrial or institutional [[building]] or [[facility]].
# An object placed surreptitiously in order to cause suspicion to fall upon a person.
#: ''That gun's not mine!  It's a '''plant'''!  I've never seen it before!''
# A person, placed amongst an [[audience]], whole role is to cause confusion, laughter etc.
# {{context|snooker}} A situation in which the [[cue ball]] hits one of a pair of touching (usually red) balls, in order to pot the other; a [[set]].
#*'''2008''', Phil Yates, ''The Times'', April 28 2008:
#*:O’Sullivan risked a '''plant''' that went badly astray, splitting the reds.

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
* [[houseplant]]
* [[planter]]
* [[plantlet]]
* [[plant-pot]]
{{mid2}}
* [[pot-plant]]
* [[power plant]]
* [[plant room]]
{{bottom2}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|living organism}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|bimë|f|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[نبات]]}} {{IPAchar|(nabāt)}} {{m}}
* [[Breton]]: plant ''(collective noun)''
* [[Catalan]]: [[planta]] {{f}}
* [[Cebuano]]: [[tanum]]
* Chinese: [[植物]] (zhíwù)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|biljka|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|plante|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|plant|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|planto|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kasvi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plante|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pflanze|f}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[ka'a]]
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|צמח|m|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|पौधा|sc=Deva|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|növény}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|jurt|f}}, {{t+|is|planta|f}}
* [[Ido]]: [[planto]]
* Indonesian: [[tumbuh-tumbuhan]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[planta]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pianta|f}}
* Japanese: [[植物]] (しょくぶつ, shokubutsu)
* Korean: [[식물]] ([[植物]], sikmul)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|دره‌خت|tr=drakht|sc=KUchar}}, {{t|ku|ڕووه‌ک|tr=Roowak|sc=KUchar}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|planta|f}}
* Lithuanian: [[augalas]] {{m}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[spati]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|roślina|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|planta|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|plantă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|растение|n|tr=rasténije|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sardinian]]: [[pranta]] {{f}}
* Serbian: [[raslina]] {{f}}, [[biljka]] {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rastlina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|planta|f}}, {{t+|es|mata|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|planta|c}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[halaman]]
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[ka'a]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bitki}}
* Ukrainian: [[рослина]] (roslyna) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|industrial apparatus or machinery}}
* Chinese: [[組裝]], [[组装]] (zǔzhuāng)
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|site|m}}, {{t+|nl|bedrijf|n}}, {{t-|nl|centrale|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|matériel|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Werk|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[molki]]
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|aparelhagem|f}}, {{t-|pt|instalação|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|planta|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|factory or industrial facility}}
* [[Breton]]: [[labouradeg]] {{f}}, [[greanti]] {{m}}
* [[Cebuano]]: [[planta]]
* Chinese: [[工廠]], [[工厂]] (gōngchǎng)
* Danish: [[virksomhed]] {{c}}, [[anlæg]] {{n}}, [[fabrik]] {{c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fabriek|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laitos}}, {{t+|fi|tehdas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fabrique|f}}, {{t+|fr|outillage|m}}, {{t+|fr|usine|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fabrik|f}}, {{t+|de|Werk|n}}, {{t+|de|Anlage|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyár}}, {{t+|hu|üzem}}
* Indonesian: [[pabrik]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[installation]]; [[fabrica]]; [[machineria]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|impianto|m}}
* Japanese: [[工場]] (こうじょう, kōjō)
* Korean: [[공장]] ([[工場]], gongjang)
* Lithuanian: [[gamykla]] {{f}}, sometimes [[fabrikas]] {{m}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[fanri]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|fabryka|f}}, {{t+|pl|zakład|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|fábrica|f}}, {{t+|pt|usina|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|fabrică|f}}, {{t-|ro|uzină|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|завод|m|tr=zavód|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|фабрика|f|tr=fábrika|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|maquinaria|f}}, {{t-|es|fábrica|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|fabrika}}, {{t+|tr|tesis}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object placed to incriminate}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|înscenare}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person hidden in audience}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|interpus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|snooker shot}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Usage notes=====
The scientific definition of what organisms should be considered plants changed dramatically during the 20th century. Bacteria, algae, and fungi are no longer considered plants by those who study them. Many textbooks do not reflect the most current thinking on classification.

===Etymology 2===
{{L.}} {{term|plantare}}, later influenced by Old French {{term|planter}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To place (a seed or plant) in [[soil]] or other [[substrate]] in order that it may live and grow.
# {{transitive}} To place (an [[object]], or sometimes a person), often with the implication of intending deceit.
#: ''That gun's not mine! It was '''planted''' there by the real murderer!''
# {{transitive}} To place or set something firmly or with conviction.
#: '''''Plant''' your feet firmly and give the rope a good tug.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[plant out]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[plantation]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|place in soil or other substrate in order that it may live and grow}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[زرع]]}} {{IPAchar|(záraʕa)}}, {{Arab|[[يزرع]]}}
* [[Breton]]: [[plantañ]]
* [[Cebuano]]: [[tanum]]
* Chinese: [[種]], [[种]] (zhòng); [[種稙]], [[种植]](zhòngzhí)
* Danish: {{t-|da|så}}, {{t+|da|plante}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|planten}}, {{t+|nl|poten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|istuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|planter}}
* German: {{t+|de|pflanzen}}
* [[Guarani]]: [[ñoty]]
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|letelepít}}, {{t+|hu|ültet}}
* [[Ido]]: [[plantacar]]
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|tanam|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[plantar]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|piantare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[植える]] (うえる, ueru)
* Korean: [[심다]] (simda)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|شینکردن|tr=sheen kirdin|sc=KUchar}}, {{t|ku|چانکردن|tr=chAn kirdin|sc=KUchar}}, {{t|ku|ڕواندن|tr=Rwandin|sc=KUchar}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[sombo]]
* Polish: [[sadzić]] {{impf}}, [[zasadzić]] {{pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|plantar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|a planta}}
* Russian: [[сажать]] (sažát’) {{impf}}, [[посадить]] (posadít’) {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|plantar}}, {{t+|es|sembrar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|plantera}}
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[tym]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ekmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place (an object, or sometimes a person), often with the implication of intending deceit}}
* [[Cebuano]]: [[tanum]]
* Danish: {{t-|da|placere}}, {{t+|da|plante}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ujuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|plazieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[plantar]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|piantare}}
* Korean: [[이식하다]] ([[移植]]-, isikhada)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|plantar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place or set something firmly or with conviction}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|plantar}}, {{t-|es|colocar}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Latin derivations]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
{{F.|nl}} ''[[plante]]'', from {{L.|nl}} ''[[planta]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|Nl-plant.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=m}}

# plant (''organism'')
# [[cabbage]], [[vegetable]] (''person with severe brain damage'')

===Verb===
{{infl|nl|verb}}

# ''first, second and third person singular [[indicative]] present tense and imperative of '''[[planten]]'''''
# ''second and third person singular [[indicative]] present tense and imperative of '''[[plannen]]'''''

----

==Welsh==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/plant/}}

===Noun===
'''plant''' (''singular:'' '''[[plentyn]]''')

# [[children|Children]].

[[ar:plant]]
[[zh-min-nan:plant]]
[[ca:plant]]
[[de:plant]]
[[el:plant]]
[[fa:plant]]
[[fr:plant]]
[[fy:plant]]
[[ko:plant]]
[[hy:plant]]
[[io:plant]]
[[id:plant]]
[[it:plant]]
[[kk:plant]]
[[ky:plant]]
[[ku:plant]]
[[lt:plant]]
[[hu:plant]]
[[nl:plant]]
[[ja:plant]]
[[pl:plant]]
[[pt:plant]]
[[ru:plant]]
[[simple:plant]]
[[sr:plant]]
[[fi:plant]]
[[sv:plant]]
[[ta:plant]]
[[te:plant]]
[[vi:plant]]
[[tr:plant]]
[[vo:plant]]
[[zh:plant]]