{{also|Plasmodium}}
==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|plasmodia}}

# {{biology}} A mass of [[cytoplasm]], containing many [[nucleus|nuclei]], created by the aggregation of [[amoeboid]] cells of [[slime mold]]s during their [[vegetative]] phase

<sup>Description and Significance
</sup>
Plasmodium, the parasite responsible for human malaria, is among the most researched genera of parasites in the world. Despite extensive studies on possible control methods, infection in humans continues to grow in tropic and sub-tropic areas. Currently there are an estimated 500,000,000 infected persons, with 1-2 million dying annually. There are four types of Plasmodium which cause human malaria: Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium ovale, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium malariae. All of these are transmitted to human hosts solely by way of Anophele mosquito vectors. Plasmodium is one of the oldest known parasites; its long history suggests a long, adaptive relationship with the human host. Today cases of the disease are increasing in non-malarious countries as more people travel to Africa, India, Brazil, and some Asian nations, where the mosquito vectors are most prevalent. Symptoms of the disease may go unnoticed or misdiagnosed; clinical signs include fever, chills, weakness, headache, vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, pulmonary and renal dysfunction, neurologic changes. Untreated malaria may result in death.

===Anagrams===
* [[sodium lamp#English|sodium lamp]]

[[fr:plasmodium]]
[[id:plasmodium]]
[[ta:plasmodium]]
[[vi:plasmodium]]
[[zh:plasmodium]]