==English==

{{rank|London|save|length|580|play|remained|bear|service}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|plā}}, {{IPA|/pleɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/pleI/}}
* {{audio|en-us-play.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪ}}

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[pleġa]]'', ''plæġa''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} Activity for amusement only, especially among the young.
# The conduct, or course of a game.
# {{countable}} An individual's performance in a sport or game.
# {{countable}} (''turn-based games'') An action carried out when it is one's turn to play.
# {{countable}} A [[literary]] composition, intended to be represented by actors impersonating the characters and speaking the dialogue.
# {{countable}} A theatrical performance featuring [[actor]]s.
# {{countable}} A major move by a business.
# {{countable}} A geological formation that contains an accumulation or prospect of hydrocarbons or other resources.
# {{uncountable}} The extent to which a part of a mechanism can move freely.
#: ''No wonder the fanbelt is slipping: there’s too much '''play''' in it.''
#: ''Too much '''play''' in a steering wheel may be dangerous.''
# {{uncountable|informal}} [[sexual|Sexual]] [[role-playing]] (as in {{term|ageplay}}, {{term|bloodplay}}, {{term|pissplay}}).
#* '''1996''', Sabrina P Ramet, ''Gender reversals and gender cultures''
#*: The rarity of male domination in fantasy '''play''' is readily explained.
#* '''1996''', "toptigger", ''Palm Springs M seeks sane F 4 safe bdsm '''play''''' (on Internet newsgroup ''alt.personals.spanking.punishment'')

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|literary composition}} [[drama]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:drama]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|playful activity}}
* Albanian: [[lojë]] {{f}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|لَعِب|f}} (láʻib)
* Armenian: [[խաղ]] (xaġ)
* [[Catalan]]: [[joc]] {{m}}
* Chinese: [[玩]] (wán), [[玩兒]], [[玩儿]] (wánr)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|igra|f|alt=ìgra}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hra|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|leg}}, {{t-|da|spil}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spel}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ludo|xs=Esperanto}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[fefe]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikki}}, {{t+|fi|peli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jeu|m}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|xogo|m|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spiel|n}}
* Hebrew: [[משחק]] (misḥāq) {{m}}, [[שעשוע]] (shāʿāshuʿā) {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játék}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gioco|m}}
* Japanese: [[遊び]] (あそび, asobi)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Kurmanji: {{t+|ku|yarî|f}}, {{t+|ku|lîstik|f}}
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|یاری|tr=yarî|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|وازی|tr=wazí|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|ludus|m}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|f|tr=ígra}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[കളി]] (kaLi)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|spill}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zabawa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|jogo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|joc|m|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|игра|f|tr=igrá}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cleasachd|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|hra|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igra|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|juego|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spel}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oyun}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|gêm|f|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|literary composition}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مسرحية|f|tr=masraHiyya}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näytelmä}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|драма|f|tr=dráma}},  {{t|mk|пиеса|f|tr=piésa}}
* [[Norwegian Bokmål]]: {{tø|nb|skuespill|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sztuka}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пьеса|f|tr=p’jésa}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oyun}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|theatrical performance}}
* [[American Sign Language]]: [[A@Left1Chesthigh-A@Right1Chesthigh Upanddown]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[مسرح]]}} (másraħ) {{m}}, {{Arab|[[مسرحية]]}} {{IPAchar|(masraħíyya)}} {{f}}
* Armenian: [[ներկայացում]] (nerkayac'um)
* [[Catalan]]: [[obra]] {{f}}
* Chinese: [[戲劇]], [[戏剧]] (xìjù), [[话剧]] (huàjù)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|predstava|f|alt=prèdstava}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hra|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|stykke}}, {{t-|da|spil}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|optreden|n}}, {{t+|nl|schouwspel|n}}, {{t+|nl|toneelstuk|n}}, {{t+|nl|stuk|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|teatraĵo|xs=Esperanto}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[fefe]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näytelmä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pièce de théâtre|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schauspiel|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|משחק|m|tr=misḥāq}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|színdarab}}, {{t+|hu|darab}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dramma|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[演劇]] (えんげき, engeki)
* Korean: [[연극]] (yeon-geuk)
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|şano|f}}, {{t+|ku|piyes|f}}, {{t+|ku|tiyatro|f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|представа|f|tr=prédstava}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[നാടകം]] (naatakam)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sztuka|f}}
* Portuguese: [[peça]] [[teatral]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пьеса|f|tr=p’jésa}}, {{t|ru|спектакль|m|tr=spektákl’}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|hra|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igra|f}}
* Spanish: [[obra]] [[teatral]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pjäs|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[నాటకం]] (naaTakaM)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oyun}},  {{t|tr|tiyatro oyunu}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|drama|f|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|individual's performance in a sport}}
* Dutch: [[spelbeweging]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|peli}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|משחק|m|tr=misḥāq}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játék}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|yarî|f}}, {{t+|ku|lîstik|f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|f|tr=ígra}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|gra|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|игра|f|tr=igrá}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igra|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spel|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|major move by a business}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|siirto}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|f|tr=ígra}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geological formation}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kenttä}}, {{t-|fi|esiintymä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|area of free movement for a part of a mechanism}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|välys}}, {{t|fi|klappi}}, {{t+|fi|löysä}}
* Hungarian: [[holtjáték]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|люфт|m|tr=l'uft}}, {{t|ru|зазор|m|tr=zazór}}, {{t|ru|свободный ход|m|tr=svobódnyj xod}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|juego|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|action carried out when it is one's turn to play}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|siirto}}, {{t+|fi|peli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|потег|m|tr=póteg}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|plegian|pleġian|lang=ang}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}}: To act in a manner such that one has [[fun]]; to engage in activities expressly for the purpose of [[recreation]].
#* '''2001''', Annabelle Sabloff, ''Reordering the Natural World'', Univ. of Toronto Press, p. 83,
#*: A youngster''...''listed some of the things his pet did not do<!--''...''-->: ''...''go on vacation, '''play''' in the same way that he did with his friends, and so on.
#* '''2003''', Anne-Nelly Perret-Clermont et al. (eds.), ''Joining Society: Social Interaction and Learning in Adolescence and Youth'', Cambridge Univ. Press, p. 52,
#*: We had to play <!--[drums]--> for an hour, so that meant that we didn't have time to '''play''' and joke around.
# {{intransitive}} To play a sport.
#: ''He '''plays''' on three teams.''
#: ''Who's '''playing''' now?''
# {{intransitive}} To produce music using a musical instrument.
#: ''I've practiced the piano off and on, and I still can't '''play''' very well.''
# {{rfv-sense}} {{intransitive}} To deal with a situation in a diplomatic manner.
# {{transitive}} To act in a performance as the indicated role.
#: ''He '''plays''' the King, and she's the Queen.''
# {{transitive}} To participate in the game indicated.
#: '''''play''' football, '''play''' sports'', '''play''' games''
# {{transitive|ergative}} To produce music on the indicated musical instrument.
#: ''I'll '''play''' the piano and you sing.''
#: ''Can you '''play''' an instrument?''
# {{transitive|ergative}} To produce music, the indicated song or style, with a musical instrument.
#: ''We especially like to '''play''' jazz together.''
#: '''''Play''' a song for me.''
#: ''Do you know how to '''play''' Für Elise?''
#: ''My son thinks he can '''play''' music.''
# {{transitive|ergative}} To use a device to watch or listen to the indicated recording.
#: ''You can '''play''' the DVD now.''
# {{context|copulative}} Contrary to fact, to give an appearance of being.
#* '''1985''', Sharon S Brehm, ''Intimate Relationships''
#*: '''Playing''' hard to get is not the same as slamming the door in someone's face.
#* '''1996''', Michael P Mal  one, ''James J Hill: Empire Builder of the Northwest''
#*: Now, surveying his final link, he had the nice advantage of being able to '''play''' coy with established port cities that desperately wanted his proven railroad.
#* '''2003''', John U. Ogbu, ''Black American Students in an Affluent Suburb: A Study of Academic Disengagement'', page 194
#*: Instead, they '''played''' dumb, remained silent, and did their classwork.
# {{context|copulative}} In a game or game-like setting, to maintain a posture of being.
#: ''They '''played''' long and hard.''
#: '''''Play''' nice, children.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|act in a manner such that one has fun}}
* [[Aleut]]: [[mikal]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[لَعِبَ]]}} {{IPAchar|(láʕiba)}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|խաղալ|tr=xaġal}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[jugar]]
* Chinese: [[玩]] (wán), [[玩兒]], [[玩儿]] (wánr)
* Czech: [[hrát]] si
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spelen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ludi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikkiä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jouer}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|xogar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|spielen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|שיחק|tr=sikhék}}, {{t|he|השתעשע|tr=hishta'ashéa}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játszik}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|leika}}, {{t+|is|leika sér}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|jocar|xs=Interlingua}}
* Irish: [[bí ag súgradh]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|giocare}}
* Japanese: [[遊ぶ]] (あそぶ, asobu)
* Korean: [[놀다]] (nolda)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|یاری کردن|tr=yarí kirdin|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|ludo}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|žaisti|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|tr=ígra}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|lacan|alt=lācan|xs=Old English}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{ps-Arab|[[لوبې کول]]}}, {{ps-Arab|[[لوبېدل]]}}, {{ps-Arab|[[غږول]]}}
* Polish: [[bawić]] (się)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|jogar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|juca}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t|rm|giugar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|играть|tr=igrát’}} {{impf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cluich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}},  {{qualifier|children}} {{t-|gd|cleasaich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: [[hrať sa]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igrati se}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|jugar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leka}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఆడు]] (aaDu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oynamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|produce music using a musical instrument ([[transitive]] sense), affecting a noun}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عَزَفَ]]}} {{IPAchar|(láʕiba)}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նվագել|tr=nvagel}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[tocar]]
* Chinese:
** [[彈]], [[弹]] (dàn) (string instruments including piano)
** [[吹]] (chuī) (wind instruments)
** [[敲打]] (qiāodǎ) (percussion instruments)
** [[演奏]] (yǎnzòu) (any instrument)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrát}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spelen}}, {{t+|nl|bespelen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soittaa}}
* French: [[jouer]] de
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ניגן|alt=ניגן (ב־)|tr=nigén (b'-)}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: játszik ''(noun specifying instrument in superessive case)
* Icelandic: [[spila]], [[spila á]] (+ {{dat}})
* Irish: {{t-|ga|seinn|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|suonare}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|свири|tr=svíri}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|lacan|alt=lācan|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: [[grać]] na
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|играть|tr=igrát’}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igrati}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spela}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çalmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|produce music using a musical instrument ([[intransitive]] sense, not affecting a noun)}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عَزَفَ]]}} {{IPAchar|(láʕiba)}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նվագել|tr=nvagel}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[tocar]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrát}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spelen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soittaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jouer}}
* German: {{t+|de|spielen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ניגן|alt=ניגן|tr=nigén}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játszik}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|spila}}
* Japanese: [[演奏]]する (ensō suru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|مۆسیقا لێدان|tr=mósíqa lédan|sc=ku-Arab}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|свири|tr=svíri}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|lacan|alt=lācan|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|grać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|играть|tr=igrát’}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igrati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tocar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spela}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çalmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|deal with a situation in a diplomatic manner}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hoitaa}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|spila}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|tr=ígra}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act in a performance}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مثل|alt=مَثَّلَ|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|խաղալ|tr=xaġal}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[actuar]]
* Chinese: [[表演]] (biǎoyǎn)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrát}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|optreden}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|näytellä}}
* German: {{t+|de|spielen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|שיחק|tr=sikhék}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játszik}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|leika}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|recitare}}
* Korean: [[연기를 하다]] (yeon-gireul hada)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|глуми|tr=glúmi}},  {{t-|mk|игра|tr=ígra}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|grać}}, {{t+|pl|występować}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atuar}}, {{t+|pt|representar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|играть|tr=igrát’}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igrati}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[agera]], [[spela]] en roll
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|participate in (a sport or game)}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[لَعِبَ]]}} (laʕiba)
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|խաղալ|tr=xaġal}}
* [[Catalan]]: participar, jugar
* Chinese: [[玩]] (wán)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrát}}
* Dutch: [[spelen]], [[meespelen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pelata}}
* French: [[jouer]] à
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|xogar|xs=Galician}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|játszik}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|spila}}, {{t+|is|leika}}
* Irish: [[imir]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|یاری کردن|tr=yarí kirdin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|žaisti|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|игра|tr=ígra}}
* Polish: [[grać]] w
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|jogar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|играть|tr=igrát’}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|igrati}}
* Spanish: [[jugar]] a
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spela}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oynamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|use a device to hear (a recording)}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|شغل|alt=شَغَّلَ|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|նվագարկել|tr=nvagarkel}}
* Chinese: [[放]] (fàng)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrát}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spelen}}, {{t+|nl|afspelen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soittaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jouer}}
* German: {{t|de|abspielen}},  {{t+|de|spielen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|השמיע|tr=hishmía}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|lejátszik}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|spila}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|لێدان|tr=lédan|sc=ku-Arab}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|пушта|tr=púšta}}
* Polish: [[grać]], [[odtwarzać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gravar}}
* Slovene: [[predvajati]]
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tamthilia|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spela}}, {{t+|sv|spela upp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: (5) {{Arab|[[يعزف]]}} (6), {{Arab|[[يتمرن]]}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[يلعب]]}}
* {{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[ñembosarái]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[ludar]] (1), [[plear]] (2, 4)
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[jocar]]
* {{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[nhemosaraîa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun or verb "play"}}
* [[airplay]]
* [[all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy]]
* [[at play]]
* [[child's play]]
* [[close of play]]
* [[double play]]
* [[downplay]]
* [[fair play]]
* [[force play]]
* [[foul play]]
* [[learn to play]]
* [[long play]]
* [[nativity play]]
* [[passion play]]
* [[playact]]/[[play-act]]
* [[play about]]
* [[play along]]
* [[play around]]
* [[play back]]
* [[play ball]]
* [[playbill]]
* [[playboy]]
* [[play by ear]]
* [[play by play]], [[play-by-play]]
* [[play date]], [[playdate]]
* [[play dead]]
* [[play doctor]]
* [[playdough]]
* [[play down]]
* [[play dumb]]
* [[player]]
* [[play fair]]
* [[play fast and loose]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[play fight]]/[[play-fight]]/[[playfight]]
* [[play for love]]
* [[playful]]
* [[play games]]
* [[playground]]
* [[play hardball]]
* [[play hard to get]]
* [[play hooky]]
* [[play house]]
* [[playhouse]]
* [[play in]]
* [[play it by ear]]
* [[play it safe]]
* [[play lunch]]
* [[playmate]]
* [[play money]]
* [[playoff]]/[[play-off]]/[[play off]]
* [[play Old Harry]]
* [[play on]]
* [[play one against another]]
* [[play one's cards right]]
* [[play on words]]
* [[playout]]/[[play out]]
* [[playpen]]
* [[play possum]]
* [[playroom]]
* [[playschool]]
* [[play second fiddle]]
* [[play silly buggers]]
* [[play someone like a fiddle]]
* [[playsuit]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[play the field]]
* [[play the fool]]
* [[play the ponies]]
* [[play the race card]]
* [[play the same tape]]
* [[play the white man]]
* [[plaything]]
* [[playtime]]
* [[play to the gallery]]
* [[play truant]]
* [[play up]]
* [[play upon]]
* [[playwear]]
* [[play with]]
* [[play with fire]]
* [[play with oneself]]
* [[playwright]]
* [[plug-and-play]]
* [[power play]]
* [[quad play]]
* [[radio play]]
* [[rain stopped play]]
* [[roleplay]]/[[role play]]/[[role-play]]
* [[screen play]]/[[screenplay]]
* [[shadow play]]
* [[squeeze play]]
* [[triple play]]
* [[turnabout is fair play]]
* [[two can play that game]]
* [[war play]]
* [[when the cat's away the mice will play]]
* [[word play]]/[[wordplay]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''play''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|play]] (theatrical performance; start key)

===Interjection===
'''play!'''

# used to start a game of Tennis

[[Category:Italian interjections]]
[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[ang:play]]
[[ar:play]]
[[de:play]]
[[et:play]]
[[el:play]]
[[es:play]]
[[fa:play]]
[[fr:play]]
[[ko:play]]
[[hr:play]]
[[io:play]]
[[id:play]]
[[it:play]]
[[kn:play]]
[[kk:play]]
[[sw:play]]
[[ku:play]]
[[lo:play]]
[[li:play]]
[[hu:play]]
[[ml:play]]
[[nl:play]]
[[ja:play]]
[[oc:play]]
[[pl:play]]
[[pt:play]]
[[ru:play]]
[[simple:play]]
[[fi:play]]
[[sv:play]]
[[ta:play]]
[[te:play]]
[[th:play]]
[[tr:play]]
[[uk:play]]
[[vi:play]]
[[zh:play]]