{{rfc|why?}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/pli:/}}
* {{rhymes|iː}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|law}} That which is [[allege]]d by a [[party]] in [[support]] of his [[cause]].
# {{context|law}} More strictly, an [[allegation]] of [[fact]] in a cause, as [[distinguish]]ed from a [[demurrer]].
# {{context|law}} Still more strictly, the defendant’s answer to the [[plaintiff]]’s declaration and [[demand]]. 
# {{context|law}} A cause in court; a [[lawsuit]]; as, the Court of Common Pleas. See under [[Common]].
#: {{rfdate}} ''The Supreme Judicial Court shall have cognizance of '''pleas''' real, personal, and mixed.''      --Laws of Massachusetts.
# That which is alleged or [[plead]]ed, in [[defense]] or in [[justification]]; an [[excuse]]; an [[apology]].
#: {{rfdate}} ''Necessity, the tyrant’s '''plea'''.'' --Milton.
#: {{rfdate}} ''No '''plea''' must serve; ‘t is cruelty to spare.'' --Denham.
# An [[urgent]] [[prayer]] or [[entreaty]].

====Usage notes====
In 19th century U.K. law, that which the plaintiff alleges in his declaration is answered and repelled or justified by the [[defendant]]’s plea. In [[chancery]] practice, a plea is a special answer showing or relying upon one or more things as a cause why the suit should be either dismissed, delayed, or barred. In criminal practice, the plea is the defendant’s formal answer to the [[indictment]] or information presented against him/her.

====Related terms====
* [[Pleas of the crown]] <!--move this to <-that page -->(English Law), criminal actions.
* [[plead]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|answer to plaintiff’s declaration}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|pleidooi|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause in court}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|zaak|f}}, {{t|nl|rechtszaak|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|excuse}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|pleidooi|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|urgent prayer}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|pleidooi|n}}, {{t|nl|smeekbede|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[دعوى قضائية]]}} {{IPAchar|(dáʕwa qaɖa’íyya)}} {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[请求]] (qǐngqiú)
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[vetoomus]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[supplication]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Plädoyer]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[védőbeszéd]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[supplica]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[弁解]] (べんかい, benkai)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[간청]] (gancheong)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[súplica]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[оправдание]] (opravdánije) {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[súplica]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[försvar]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[fr:plea]]
[[io:plea]]
[[pl:plea]]
[[fi:plea]]
[[te:plea]]
[[vi:plea]]
[[zh:plea]]