==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|plēnum}}, noun use of neuter of {{m|la|plēnus||full}}. Influenced by Russian {{m|ru|пле́нум||plenary session}}, from the same Latin source.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈpliːnəm/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|plena}}

# {{label|en|physics}} A [[space]] that is completely filled with [[matter]].
#* '''1946''', Bertrand Russell, ''A History of Western Philosophy'':
#*: The idea was that a thing could only move into an empty place, and that, in a '''plenum''', there are no empty places.
#* '''2001''', Edward Grant, ''God and Reason in the Middle Ages'', p. 176:
#*: The key to understanding medieval interpretations of motion in hypothetically void space is to realize that medieval natural philosophers analyzed the same bodies in the void that they discussed in the '''plenum''' of their ordinary world.
# {{label|en|figuratively}} A state of [[fullness]], a great quantity (of something).
#* '''1974''', Guy Davenport ''Tatlin!'':
#*: He lay on the long stone slant down to the slapping waves, his denim shorts, sneakers, and socks under his head for a pillow, feeling the splendour of distance in all directions, the liquid silence, the '''plenum''' of aloneness.
# A [[legislative]] [[meeting]] (especially of the Communist Party) in which all [[member]]s are [[present]].
# An enclosed space having greater than [[atmospheric]] [[pressure]].
# The space above a [[false ceiling]] used for [[cable]]s, [[duct]]s etc.
# {{label|en|computing}} A type of network cabling which satisfies plenum-ratings issued by the National Electrical Code. These cables are safer in case of a fire, producing less smoke and fumes.

====Antonyms====
* [[vacuum]]

====Related terms====
* [[plenary]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A space that is completely filled with matter}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|充满|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|充实|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A state of fullness, a great quantity (of something)}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|充满|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|充实|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A legislative meeting (especially of the Communist Party) in which all members are present}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|全体会议|sc=Hani}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|plenum|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|plenum|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|پلنوم|tr=plenom|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пле́нум|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|pleno|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|enclosed space having greater than atmospheric pressure}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|高压|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|space above a false ceiling used for cables, ducts etc.}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of network cabling which satisfies plenum-ratings issued by the National Electrical Code}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[lumpen#English|lumpen]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|plēnum}}

# {{inflection of|plēnus||nom|n|s|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|plēnus||acc|m|s|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|plēnus||acc|n|s|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|plēnus||voc|n|s|lang=la}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{head|no|noun}}

# In public; somewhere (sometime) where and when everyone's allowed: not restricted to a certain group or the like. {{attention|no|the part-of-speech header is 'Noun', but the definition sounds like an adjective or adverb?}}{{attention|nb}}{{attention|nn}}
#: ''Thomas Giertsen var på apoteket og kassapersonen annonserte at han hadde en soppinfeksjon høyt i '''plenum''' så alle hørte det.''
#:: Thomas Giertsen was in the apothecary and the pharmacist announced loudly his fungal infection to those present in the shop.

{{attention|no}}{{attention|nb}}{{attention|nn}}

[[cs:plenum]]
[[fr:plenum]]
[[hy:plenum]]
[[ku:plenum]]
[[ml:plenum]]
[[uz:plenum]]
[[pl:plenum]]
[[pt:plenum]]
[[ru:plenum]]
[[sq:plenum]]
[[sh:plenum]]
[[fi:plenum]]
[[sv:plenum]]
[[ta:plenum]]
[[chr:plenum]]
[[vi:plenum]]
[[zh:plenum]]