==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|ploot}}

===Etymology===
Shortened from ''[[plutocrat]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pluːt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-au-plute.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uːt|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|colloquial|Australia|US}} A [[plutocrat]], especially a rich [[industrialist]].
#* '''1909''', Western Federation of Miners, ''Miner′s Magazine'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=hT8tAQAAMAAJ&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=iX7dT_X1MOuXiQeq5ciZCg&redir_esc=y page 95],
#*: As a result, the '''plutes''' are in a panic.
#* '''1915''', [[w:Gene Stratton-Porter|Gene Stratton-Porter]], ''Michael O′Halloran'', 2006, Echo Library, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=oDQ2eAR-TSAC&pg=PA224&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=iX7dT_X1MOuXiQeq5ciZCg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22plute%22&f=false page 224],
#*: “Exactly what the '''plutes''' are doing,” said Mickey. “Gee, Junior, if your Pa does all the things he said he was going to, you'll be a '''plute''' yourself!”
#*: “Never heard him say anything in my life he didn′t do,” said Junior, “and didn′t you notice that he put ''you'' in too? You′ll be just as much of a '''plute''' as I will.”
#* '''1917''', New Zealand House of Representatives, ''Parliamentary Debates'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=xuokAQAAIAAJ&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IYPdT4WzEqe6iQfy0IidCg&redir_esc=y page 153],
#*: Then one of the papers — the Wellington ''Truth'' — had a paragraph in it that on account of the strike being settled I was deprived of that trip to represent the “'''plutes'''” in Australia — so easily can one′s action be misconstrued and misunderstood.
#* '''1917''' October 4, ''People'', quoted in 1989, John Gunn, ''Along Parallel Lines: A History of the Railways of New South Wales'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=gEXRJBBpB2MC&pg=PA287&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IYPdT4WzEqe6iQfy0IidCg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22plute%22&f=false page 287],
#*: Against the workers were arrayed the whole forces of Australian Capitalism — '''plutes''' (''sic''), press, politicians, pulpits and all the powers and forces of the State and Federal Government, with the Courts and all the forces of repression behind the State Capitalist Government.
#* '''1938''', [[w:Xavier Herbert|Xavier Herbert]], ''[[w:Capricornia (novel)|Capricornia]]'', 2010, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=2tqkVza3Lm4C&pg=PT462&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IYPdT4WzEqe6iQfy0IidCg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22plute%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: And they can′t export it, because, Australia bein′ a workin′ man′s paradise, which is better than it bein′ a paradise for '''Plutes''', their cost of production is too high for competition with countries where labour is sweated.
#* '''1993''', Frank Cain, ''The Wobblies at War: A History of the IWW and the Great War in Australia'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=bVoUAQAAIAAJ&q=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&dq=%22plute%22|%22plutes%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22plute%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IYPdT4WzEqe6iQfy0IidCg&redir_esc=y page 180],
#*: {{...}}but then the prostitutes of the '''plute''' press are always cunning flunkeys of the Most High.
#* '''2006''', Thomas Pynchon, ''Against the Day'', Vintage 2007, p. 104:
#*: Straight talk. No double-talking you like the '''plutes''' do, ’cause with them what you always have to be listening for is the opposite of what they say.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=elptu|-tuple|let up|let-up|letup|tuple}}

[[Category:English clippings]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Noun===
{{sh-noun-form}}

# {{inflection of|sh|pluta||gen|s|;|nom//acc//voc|p}}