==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=ply}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/plaɪ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪ|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|-}}, a {{bor|en|frm|pli||pleat, fold|nocap=1}}, from {{m|frm|plier||bend, fold}}, from {{der|en|la|plicō||I fold, I fold together}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~|plies}}

# A [[layer]] of material.
#: {{ux|en|two-'''ply''' toilet paper}}
#* '''1999''', [https://books.google.com/books?id=MGctAQAAMAAJ&q=%22with+less+ply%22&dq=%22with+less+ply%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwin_cDsj-PRAhVFhlQKHZlHAPoQ6AEIKjAD VLSI Design '99]
#*: It is possible to have a very well load balanced partition but with such a high ply that its slowest piece is slower than a not-so-well balanced partition with less '''ply'''.
# A [[strand]] that, twisted together with other strands, makes up [[yarn]] or [[rope]].
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} [[plywood|Plywood]].
# {{lb|en|artificial intelligence|game theory}} In two-player sequential games, a "half-turn", or one move made by one of the players.
#: ''He proposed to build Deep Purple, a super-computer capable of 24-'''ply''' look-ahead for chess.''
# {{lb|en|now|_|chiefly|_|Scotland}} [[state|State]], [[condition]].
#* '''1749''', John Cleland, ''Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure'', Penguin 1985, p. 66:
#*: You may be sure, in the '''ply''' I was now taking, I had no objection to the proposal, and was rather a-tiptoe for its accomplishment.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a layer of material}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|paparanga }}, {{t|mi|apa}}, {{t|mi|papanga }}, {{t|mi|mātā }}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|plywood}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|en|enm|plien||bend, fold, mold}}, a {{bor|en|frm|plier||bend, fold|nocap=1}}, see Etymology 1.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|plies|plying|plied}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[bend#Verb|bend]]; to [[fold#Verb|fold]].
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[flex#Verb|flex]].
#* '''1669''', {{w|Roger L'Estrange|Roger L’Estrange}}, ''{{w|Aesop's Fables|Fables, of Æsop and other Eminent Mythologists}}'', London: R. Sare ''et al.'', 3rd edition, “An Oak and a Willow,” p. 195,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/fablesofaesopoth00lest]</sup>
#*: The ''Willow'' '''Ply’d''', and gave way to the Gust, and still recover’d it self again, without receiving any Damage {{...}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|plier}} (agent noun)
* {{l|en|pliers}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bend; to fold}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|plooien}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plier}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скру́чивать}}, {{t+|ru|сгиба́ть}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zohnúť}}, {{t|sk|zložiť}}, {{t|sk|preložiť}}, {{t|sk|poskladať}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to flex}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|muyuy}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сгиба́ть}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|ohnúť}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|en|enm|plien|}}, short for {{m|enm|applien||apply}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|plies|plying|plied}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[work#Verb|work]] at [[diligent#Adjective|diligent]]ly.
#: ''He '''plied''' his trade as carpenter for forty-three years.''
#* '''1666''', {{w|Edmund Waller}}, ''Instructions to the Painter for the Drawing of the Posture & Progress of His Majesties Forces at Sea'', London: Henry Herringman, p. 13,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A67335.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Their bloody Task, unwearied, still they '''ply''',
#*: Only restrain’d by Death, or Victory:
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To work diligently.
#* '''1644''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''Of Education'', London: Thomas Underhill, p. 4,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A89146.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Ere halfe these Authors be read, which will soon be with '''plying''' hard and dayly, they cannot choose but be masters of any ordinary prose.
#* '''1711''', {{w|Joseph Addison}} and {{w|Richard Steele}}, ''{{w|The Spectator (1711)|The Spectator}}'', Volume 2, Number 94, 18 June, 1711,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/spectator22steegoog]</sup>
#*: He was afterwards reduced to great Want, and forced to think of '''plying''' in the Streets as a Porter for his Livelihood.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[use#Verb|use]] vigorously.
#: ''He '''plied''' his ax with bloody results.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[travel#Verb|travel]] over [[regular#Adjective|regular]]ly.
#: '''''ply''' the seven seas''
#: ''A steamer '''plies''' between certain ports.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[persist#Verb|persist]] in offering something to.
#* '''1749''', {{w|Henry Fielding}}, ''{{w|The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling}}'', Volume 2, Book 8, Chapter 12, p. 162,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004794856.0001.002]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the true Gamesters pretended to be ill, and refused their Glass, while they '''plied''' heartily two young Fellows, who were to be afterwards pillaged, as indeed they were without Mercy.
#* '''1929''', [[w:M. Barnard Eldershaw|M. Barnard Eldershaw]], ''[[w:A House is Built|A House Is Built]]'', Chapter VII, Section vi
#*: Esther began {{...}} to cry. But when the fire had been lit specially to warm her chilled limbs and Adela had '''plied''' her with hot negus she began to feel rather a heroine.
# To press upon; to urge importunately.
#: ''to '''ply''' one with questions, with solicitations, or with drink''
#* c. '''1596''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Merchant of Venice}}'', Act III, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=merchantvenice&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: He '''plies''' the duke at morning and at night,
# To employ diligently; to use steadily.
#* c. '''1593''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Taming of the Shrew}}'', Act II, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=tamingshrew&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: Go '''ply''' thy needle; meddle not with her.
# {{lb|en|nautical}} To work to [[windward]]; to [[beat]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to work at diligently}}
* Russian: {{l|ru|усе́рдно}} {{t+|ru|рабо́тать}} (usérdno rabótatʹ)
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|makať (colloq.)}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to use vigorously}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to travel over regularly}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|курси́ровать}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|premávať}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to persist in offering}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|по́тчевать}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{Webster 1913}}