==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokonioses}}

# {{alternative spelling of|[[pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis]]}}
#* '''1953''': Charlton Grant Laird, ''Stability of Shortenings in Cereal and Baked Products'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=vooaAAAAIAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p97]
#*: Thus, if you discover a spruce and your name is Engelmann, the tree becomes ''Picea engelmanni'', which is only ''Engelmann’s spruce'' in Latin; if you discover a nonmetallic element and name it ''iodine'', you have only called it ''looking like a violet'', by giving it a Greek name for the color of its vapor; if you suffer from '''''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis''''', you may be fatally ill, but your disease is being described in a series of classical syllables.
#* '''1956''': Lemuel Clyde McGee, ''Manual of Industrial Medicine'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=aSg6AAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p82]
#*: b. ''Pneumoconiosis''
#*:  For purely sesquipedalian interest, it should be pointed out here that the longest word said to be found in a recent edition of Webster’s International Dictionary is a term found in industrial medicine. The word is: '''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis'''.
#*:  The various pneumoconioses are named by the character of the dust which is inhaled. ''Anthracosis'' is from coal dust; ''siderosis'' from iron dust; ''chalicosis'' from stone cutting (calcium); ''silicosis'' from dust containing silica; ''byssinosis'' from cotton particles, etc.
#*:  In a broad sense the term “pneumoconiosis” means simply “dust in the lungs”. Most pneumoconioses do ''not'' result in recognizable disability or disease.
#* '''1958''': Peter Pleming, ''My Aunt’s Rhinoceros: And Other Reflections'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=xCUeAAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p87] (Simon and Schuster)
#*: This time I am going to try to make amends, thus (I hope) avoiding floccinaucinihilipilification.
#*:  This word, which may be strange to some of you, is the longest in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' ; it means “estimating as worthless” and was first used in 1741. I will not pretend that it had been often on my lips before I found it the other day on page seventy-six of ''The Guinness Book of Records'', where it is slightly overshadowed by '''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis''', a technical term for a lung disease which attacks miners.
#* '''1960''': Roy H. Copperud, ''Words on Paper: A Manual of Prose Style for Professional Writers, Reporters…'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=PQA1AAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p164] (Hawthorn Books) [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=sU4LAAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 <small>BACK-UP HYPERLINK</small>]
#*: <big>antidisestablishmentarianism.</big> This word now seems to have been disestablished as the longest one in the language, and let’s be glad of it. Millions must have grown sick of hearing it announced as such by those who are enchanted with useless information. But even if the king is dead, the customary cry, “Long live the king!” sticks in the throat. The reason for this is that the new king is '''''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis'''''. Forty-five letters, as against twenty-eight in the old one. It’s a disease — like going around telling people about ''antidisestablishmentarianism''.
#* '''1970''': Apolinar B. Parale, ''The Case for Pilipino'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=0Kp318XdM5kC&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p111] (MCS Enterprises)
#*: Speaking of kilometric Filipino words as complained of by both Senator Osias and Mr. Lacuesta, could any term in the national language be more kilometric than the following English terms?
#*:# '''''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis''''' — which means a form of respiratory disease occuring specially in miners caused by the inhalation of very fine silicate or quartz dust.
#* '''1972''': Hal D. Funk & DeWayne Triplett, ''Language Arts in the Elementary School: Readings'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=_cw0AAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p111] (Lippincott, ISBN 0397472110)
#*: …demography, '''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis''' (a rare lung disease caused by inhalation of very small particles of volcanic dust). Greek and Latin combining forms are productive in Present Day English and make up about 16 percent of new words.
#* '''1977''': Hugh Nash from [[w:Friends of the Earth|Friends of the Earth]], ''Progress as If Survival Mattered: A Handbook for a Conserver Society'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=-EYvAAAAMAAJ&q=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&pgis=1 p9]
#*: The greater the number of needed causes you espouse, the greater the chance of displeasing somebody. Cheap shots are easy. You can positively oppose cancer, heart disease, multiple sclerosis, inflation, unemployment, forest fires, and '''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis''' and never lose a vote.
#* '''2005''': Dawn M. Hudson, ''Human Anatomy & Physiology'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=fvXu_Y9200UC&pg=PA23&dq=pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis&sig=1pmxqEjRi0S5fjBjB6waUF-Gwro p23] (Walch Publishing; ISBN 082515510X (10), ISBN 978-0825155109 (13))
#*: Did you know that the longest word in the English language (separate from proper nouns) is a science word? It is '''''pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanokoniosis'''''. This word has 45 letters. Can you figure out what it means? To figure it out, you can approach it the way you approach any word you don’t know. Take the parts of the word you do know and define them one at a time, finally putting the entire word back together. The first part you see above is ''pneumono'', which should remind you of ''pneumonia'', a disease of the lung. Secondly, you should recognize ''ultra'', which means “very”. Next, you will notice the prefix ''micro'', which means “tiny”. Next is the term ''scopic'', which means “to see”. Then you notice the prefix ''silico'', which is like ''silicon'', the natural earth element from which computer chips are made. The next word is ''volcano'', which you are probably familiar with. The last suffix is ''koniosis'', which refers to a disease caused by dust. By taking all these meanings and putting them together, you will now see “disease of the lung, very, tiny, to see, silicon, volcano, disease caused by dust”. With a little work, you should be able to figure out that this is a lung disease caused from breathing in very tiny silicon dust particles, perhaps from an erupting volcano. In other words, it is similar to black lung, a disease coal miners can have.