==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈpɒləsi/|/ˈpɒlɪsi/||lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈpɑləsi/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-policy.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{m|frm|policie}}, from {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{m|la|politia||citizenship; government}}, classical {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|polītīa}} (in Cicero), from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|πολιτεία||citizenship; polis, (city) state; government}}, from {{m|grc|πολίτης||citizen}}. Compare {{m|en|police}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|policies}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} The art of [[governance]]; [[political science]]. {{defdate|14th–18th c.}}
#* '''a. 1616''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Henry V'', I.1:
#*: List his discourse of Warre; and you shall heare / A fearefull Battaile rendred you in Musique. / Turne him to any Cause of '''Pollicy''', / The Gordian Knot of it he will vnloose, / Familiar as his Garter {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[state]]; a [[polity]]. {{defdate|14th–16th c.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A set political system; civil administration. {{defdate|15th–19th c.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[trick]]; a [[stratagem]]. {{defdate|15th–19th c.}}
#* '''a. 1594''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Titus Andronicus'':
#*: 'Tis '''pollicie''', and stratageme must doe / That you affect, and so must you resolue, / That what you cannot as you would atcheiue, / You must perforce accomplish as you may.
# A [[principle]] of [[behaviour]], [[conduct]] etc. thought to be [[desirable]] or [[necessary]], especially as formally expressed by a [[government]] or other authoritative body. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#: ''The Communist Party has a '''policy''' of returning power to the workers.''
# [[wise|Wise]] or [[advantageous]] [[conduct]]; [[prudence]], formerly also with connotations of [[craftiness]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1813''', Jane Austen, ''Pride and Prejudice'', Modern Library Edition (1995), page 140:
#*: These bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I with greater '''policy''' concealed my struggles, and flattered you {{...}}
#* Fuller
#*: The very '''policy''' of a hostess, finding his purse so far above his clothes, did detect him.
# {{lb|en|now|rare}} Specifically, political [[shrewdness]] or (formerly) [[cunning]]; [[statecraft]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1946''', {{w|Bertrand Russell}}, ''History of Western Philosophy'', I.25:
#*: Whether he believed himself a god, or only took on the attributes of divinity from motives of '''policy''', is a question for the psychologist, since the historical evidence is indecisive.
# {{lb|en|Scotland|now|chiefly|in the plural}} The [[grounds]] of a large country [[house]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#* '''1955''', {{w|Robin Jenkins}}, ''The Cone-Gatherers'', Canongate 2012, page 36:
#*: Next morning was so splendid that as he walked through the '''policies''' towards the mansion house despair itself was lulled.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Motive; object; inducement.
#* Sir Philip Sidney
#*: What '''policy''' have you to bestow a benefit where it is counted an injury?

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|endowment policy}}
* {{l|en|fiscal policy}}
* {{l|en|honesty is the best policy}}
* {{l|en|monetary policy}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|policied}}
* {{l|en|policy mix}}
* {{l|en|policy shift}}
* {{l|en|policymaker}}
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|principle of conduct}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|سِيَاسَة|f}}
* Armenian: {{t-needed|hy}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|política|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|政策|tr=zhèngcè|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|方針|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|方针|tr=fāngzhēn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|politika|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|politik|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beleid|n}}, {{t+|nl|politiek}}
* Esperanto: {{t-needed|eo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|politiikka}}, {{t+|fi|linja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|politique|f}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Politik|f}}, {{t|de|Handlungsgrundsatz|m}}, {{t+|de|Vorgehensweise|f}}, {{t|de|Verfahrensweise|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πολιτική|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מדיניות|f|tr=mediniyuth}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|politika}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|stefna|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|beartas|m}}, {{t|ga|polasaí|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|politica|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|政策|tr=せいさく, seisaku}}, {{t|ja|施策|tr=しさく, sisaku}}, {{t+|ja|ポリシー|tr=porishī|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|នយោបាយ|tr=nak yo bay|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|정책|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|政策|sc=Kore}})
* Malay: {{t|ms|polisi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kaupapa here}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|politikk|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|no|politikk|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|polityka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|política|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поли́тика|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|política|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sera}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|politik|f}}
* Thai: {{t-needed|th}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|prudent conduct}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|方針|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|方针|tr=fāngzhēn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|politika|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|tactiek|n}}, {{t+|nl|voorzichtigheid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|linja}}, {{t+|fi|politiikka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschicklichkeit|f}}, {{t|de|Umsicht|f}}, {{t+|de|Vorsicht|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|方針|tr=ほうしん, hōshin}}, {{t+|ja|ポリシー|tr=porishī}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|política|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поли́тика|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|policies|policying|policied}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[regulate]] by [[law]]s; to reduce to order.
#* Francis Bacon
#*: '''Policying''' of cities.''

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{m|frm|police}}, from {{etyl|it|en}} {{m|it|polizza}}, from {{etyl|ML.|en}} {{m|la|apodissa||receipt for money}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{m|grc|ἀπόδειξις||proof, declaration}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|policies}}

# A [[contract]] of [[insurance]]
#* Your insurance '''policy''' covers fire and theft only.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} An [[illegal]] daily [[lottery]] in late nineteenth and early twentieth [[century]] [[USA]] on numbers drawn from a [[lottery wheel]] (''no plural'')
# A [[number pool]] lottery

=====Synonyms=====
* (number pool) [[policy racket]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|policyholder}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|contract of insurance}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سَنَد تَأْمِين|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pojistka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|polis}}, {{t|nl|verzekeringscontract|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vakuutuskirja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|police|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Versicherungspolice|f}}, {{t+|de|Police|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ασφάλεια|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kötvény}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|polasaí|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|polizza|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|契約内容|tr=kēyaku naiyō}}, {{t+|ja|規約|tr=kiyaku}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|polise|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|polise|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|polisa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apólice|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|по́лис|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|póliza|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sera}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|poliçe}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|illegal daily US lottery}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|sera}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|number pool}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-f|beleid|n}}
* Arabic: {{t-check|ar|سِيَاسَة|f}}
* German: {{t-check|de|Politik|f}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|politica|f}}, {{t-check|it|prassi|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{projectlink|wikipedia}}

[[ar:policy]]
[[az:policy]]
[[cs:policy]]
[[de:policy]]
[[et:policy]]
[[el:policy]]
[[es:policy]]
[[fa:policy]]
[[fr:policy]]
[[ko:policy]]
[[io:policy]]
[[id:policy]]
[[it:policy]]
[[kn:policy]]
[[kk:policy]]
[[sw:policy]]
[[ku:policy]]
[[lo:policy]]
[[li:policy]]
[[hu:policy]]
[[mg:policy]]
[[ml:policy]]
[[my:policy]]
[[nl:policy]]
[[ja:policy]]
[[no:policy]]
[[km:policy]]
[[pl:policy]]
[[pt:policy]]
[[ru:policy]]
[[simple:policy]]
[[fi:policy]]
[[sv:policy]]
[[ta:policy]]
[[te:policy]]
[[th:policy]]
[[chr:policy]]
[[tr:policy]]
[[vi:policy]]
[[zh:policy]]