{{also|POM|Pom|pòm|ром|Ром}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/pɒm/}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-pom.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɒm}}

===Etymology 1===
Australian from 1912.<ref>'''1998''', Roger Robinson, Nelson Wattie, ''The Oxford Companion to New Zealand Literature'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=L8cUAQAAIAAJ&q=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mN7iT4u-PKXimAX_xt3VAw&redir_esc=y page 445].</ref><ref>http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-22378819</ref> Shortening of [[pomegranate]], [[rhyming slang]] for [[immigrant]] (“imme-granate”), with additional reference to the fact that the harsh Australian sun could turn British immigrants' skin pomegranate red.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Australia|South Africa|New Zealand||pejorative}} An [[Englishman]], a [[Briton]]; a person of [[British]] descent.
#* '''1987''', Linda Christmas, ''The Ribbon and the Ragged Square: An Australian Journey'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=1Bfo6Rd90NEC&q=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mN7iT4u-PKXimAX_xt3VAw&redir_esc=y page 27],
#*: I could see more than mere humour in car stickers that read ‘Grow your own Dope: Plant a '''Pom'''’ ... ‘Keep Australia Beautiful: Shoot a '''Pom'''’.
#* '''1989''', Tony Wheeler, ''Australia: A Travel Survival Kit'', Lonely Planet, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=nHEUAQAAMAAJ&q=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mN7iT4u-PKXimAX_xt3VAw&redir_esc=y page 10],
#*: The prize for being Australia′s original '''pom''' goes to the enterprising pirate William Dampier, who made the first investigations ashore about 40 years after Tasman and nearly 100 years before Cook.
#* '''2008''', Lawrence Booth, ''Cricket, Lovely Cricket?'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=zO3VL4ybLQwC&pg=PA214&dq=%22pom%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mN7iT4u-PKXimAX_xt3VAw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pom%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 214],
#*: At one stage a group called British People Against Racial Discrimination complained to the Advertising Standards Board in Australia about an advert for Tooheys beer that claimed it was ‘cold enough to scare a '''Pom'''’.
#: {{syn|en|Brit|limey}}

=====Usage notes=====
The use of this word to refer to a British person is a racial slur. There has been lots of debate on the subject, but it is taken as a term of offence by those at whom it is directed.

=====Derived terms=====
{{der3|en
|pommy
|ten pound pom
|whinging pom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|kiwi}}
* {{l|en|pompom}}
* {{l|en|Yank}}
* [[w:Alternative words for British|Wikipedia article on Alternative words for British]]

====References====
<references />

===Etymology 2===
Shortening of [[pomegranate]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|cocktail}} An [[American]] alcoholic drink containing [[vodka]] and [[pomegranate]] [[juice]].

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=mop|MOP|MPO|OPM|PMO|mop}}

[[Category:English informal demonyms]]
[[Category:en:Australia]]
[[Category:en:Cocktails]]
[[Category:en:People]]

----

==Aromanian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|rup|pomu}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|rup|la|pōmus}}. Compare Daco-{{cog|ro|pom}}.

===Noun===
{{head|rup|noun|g=m|plural|ponj}}

# [[fruit tree]]
# [[fruit]]

====Related terms====
{{rel3|rup
|poamã
|pumet
|pumãrii
}}

===See also===
* {{l|rup|arburi}}
* {{l|rup|fructu}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ca|la|pōmum}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{ca-IPA|ó}}

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[bunch]], [[bouquet]]
#: {{syn|ca|ramell}}
# [[pommel]], [[knob]], [[doorknob]]
# A [[scent-bottle]] with a rounded shape.
# {{lb|ca|botany}} [[pome]]
# {{lb|ca|historical}} [[orb]] {{gloss|golden ball symbolising royal power}}
#: {{syn|ca|globus|món}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|ca|pomejat}}
* {{l|ca|pomell}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ca|poma}}
* {{l|ca|pòmul}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:IEC2}}

{{c|ca|Containers}}

----

==Ladino==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lad}}

===Noun===
{{lad-noun}}

# [[apple]]
#: {{syn|lad|mansana}}

[[Category:lad:Fruits]]

----

==Mauritian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{der|mfe|fr|pomme}}

===Noun===
{{head|mfe|noun}}

# [[apple]]

===References===
* Baker, Philip & Hookoomsing, Vinesh Y. 1987. ''Dictionnaire de créole mauricien. Morisyen – English – Français''

----

==Rade==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|rad|fr|pompe}}.

===Verb===
{{head|rad|verb}}

# to [[pump]]

{{topics|rad|Pumps}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ro|la|pōmus}}, from {{inh|ro|itc-pro|*poomos}}, from {{inh|ro|ine-pro||*h₂po-h₁ém-os|taken off}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*h₂epo||off}} + {{m|ine-pro|*h₁em-||take}}. See {{m|la|pōmum}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|m|pomi}}

# [[fruit tree]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-m}}

====Related terms====
{{rel3|ro
|poamă
|pomet
|pomar}}

===See also===
* {{l|ro|arbore}}
* {{l|ro|copac}}

[[Category:ro:Trees]]

----

==White Hmong==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|mww|hmx-pro|*bu̯ət||to see}}. Cognate with {{cog|ium|buatc}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{mww-pron}}

===Verb===
{{head|mww|verb}}

# to [[see]]
# to [[tattle]]

===References===
* Sue Murphy Mote, ''Hmong and American: Stories of Transition to a Strange Land'' {{ISBN|078641832X}}, 2004)