==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|pommie}}

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|pom|y|gloss2=diminutive suffix|lang=en}}. Australian from 1912.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈpɒmi/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-au-pommy.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒmi|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|pommies}}

# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|South Africa|derogatory}} A [[pom]]; a person of [[British]] descent, a [[Briton]]; an [[Englishman]].
#* '''1931''', [[w:Miles Franklin|Miles Franklin]], ''Back to Bool Bool'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=YvfPAAAAMAAJ&q=%22pommy%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&dq=%22pommy%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=oDXjT6XhJOatiQfWlrT3Dg&redir_esc=y page 140],
#*: Though Sir Oswald had taken on enough London veneer to be sneered at as a '''pommy''' in certain Australian circles, he had never acquired the high-class Englishman′s apparent equanimity or indifference before the prospect of cuckolding.
#* '''2007''', Tony Parsons, ''Silver in the Sun'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=6s73jQWCFnkC&pg=PT115&dq=%22pommy%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=di7jT-KFCuqTiAeWsqCDDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pommy%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: Rhona nodded her agreement. ‘That′s a very interesting answer from a new Aussie – and a '''Pommy''' into the bargain,’ she added.
#* '''2009''', Robert Holman, ''On Paths of Ash: The Extraordinary Story of an Australian Prisoner of War'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=VUynemaVDxMC&pg=PT71&dq=%22pommy%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=di7jT-KFCuqTiAeWsqCDDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pommy%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: During one of these acts of bravery by the English pilots I saw a great big tough Aussie with tears of frustration streaming down his face. He was shouting, ‘You magnificent, stupid '''Pommy''' bastard!’

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|limey}} {{qualifier|US}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|pom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|South Africa|sometimes|pejorative}} [[English]]; [[British]].
#* '''1991''', ''A Stranger's Trust'', Emma Richmond:
#*: A gleam of humour, a moment of beautiful '''pommy''' arrogance.
#* '''2003''', Susan Bradley Smith, ''12: Rhetoric, reconciliation and other national pastimes: showcasing contemporary Australian theatre in London'', Elizabeth Schafer, Susan Bradley Smith (editors), ''Playing Australia: Australian Theatre and the International Stage'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=V0QRHKV_3NcC&pg=PA201&dq=%22pommy%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=di7jT-KFCuqTiAeWsqCDDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pommy%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 201],
#*: That is, of course, until Australian movie stars like Cate Blanchett and Nicole Kidman proved that they could sell tickets in the West End so long as they could play at being what Rees calls a ‘movie siren’ with a convincing ‘fake '''pommy''' accent’.
#* {{quote-newsgroup
|title=Hello, Hello
|group=aus.cars
|author=feral
|date=February 24 2005
|passage=athol wrote:{{...}}> IIRC, "hood lining" is the more '''pommy''' terminology.  :-)
|url=http://groups.google.com/group/aus.cars/browse_thread/thread/bb7a4f4bc827f462/c6afe7fbeeb7ebd?q=%22more%7Cmost+pommy%7Cpommie%22+group:aus.*#0c6afe7fbeeb7ebd}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|limey}} {{qualifier|US}}

===Further reading===
* [http://www.australianbeers.com/culture/poms.htm Poms overview]

[[Category:English ethnic slurs]]
[[Category:English informal demonyms]]
[[Category:en:Australia]]
[[Category:en:South Africa]]