{{was wotd|2010|November|2}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Ultimately from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|ponderōsus||weighty|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈpɒn.dəɹ.əs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈpɑn.dɚ.əs/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-ponderous.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[heavy|Heavy]], [[massive]], [[weighty]].
#* '''1879''', [[w:Julian Hawthorne|Julian Hawthorne]], ''Archibald Malmaison'', ch. 5:
#*: [H]e saw, at the end of a shallow embrasure, a '''ponderous''' door of dark wood, braced with iron.
#* {{circa|1920}} Edgar B. P. Darlington, ''The Circus Boys on the Flying Rings'', ch. 4:
#*: The great elephant, when the cage was being placed, would, at a signal from its keeper, place its '''ponderous''' head against one side of the cage and push.
# {{context|figuratively|by extension|lang=en}} [[serious|Serious]], [[onerous]], [[oppressive]].
#* '''1781''', [[w:Samuel Johnson|Samuel Johnson]], ''Lives of the Poets'', "Dryden":
#*: It was Dryden's opinion . . . that the drama required an alternation of comick and tragick scenes; and that it is necessary to mitigate, by alleviations of merriment, the pressure of '''ponderous''' events, and the fatigue of toilsome passions.
#* '''1845''', [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''Pictures From Italy'', ch. 11:
#*: In its court-yard—worthy of the Castle of Otranto in its '''ponderous''' gloom—is a massive staircase.
#* '''1915''', [[w:Virginia Woolf|Virginia Woolf]], ''The Voyage Out'', ch. 19:
#*: For the time, her own body was the source of all the life in the world, which tried to burst forth here—there—and was repressed now by Mr. Bax, now by Evelyn, now by the imposition of '''ponderous''' stupidity.
# [[clumsy|Clumsy]], [[unwieldy]], or [[slow]], especially due to [[weight]].
#* '''1915''', [[w:Samuel Hopkins Adams|Samuel Hopkins Adams]], ''Little Miss Grouch'', ch. 10:
#*: Slowly, through an increasing glow that lighted land and water alike, the leviathan of the deep made her '''ponderous''' progress to the hill-encircled harbor.
#* '''1919''', [[w:Virginia Woolf|Virginia Woolf]], "Kew Gardens":
#*: Following his steps . . . came two elderly women of the lower middle class, one stout and '''ponderous''', the other rosy cheeked and nimble.
# [[dull|Dull]], [[boring]], [[tedious]]; [[long-winded]] in expression.
#* '''1863''', [[w:Elizabeth Gaskell|Elizabeth Gaskell]], "Cousin Phillis":
#*: Over supper the minister did unbend a little into one or two '''ponderous''' jokes.
#* '''1918''', [[w:Gene Stratton-Porter|Gene Stratton-Porter]], ''A Daughter Of The Land'', ch. 2:
#*: [A]s certainly as any one said anything in her presence that she had occasion to repeat, she changed the wording to six-syllabled mouthfuls, delivered with '''ponderous''' circumlocution.
# {{context|rare|lang=en}} Characterized by or associated with [[ponder]]ing.
#* {{circa|1660}} [[w:Thomas Manton|Thomas Manton]], "Sermon Upon John III" in ''Works of Thomas Manton'' (2002 edition), ISBN 9781589603462, [http://books.google.ca/books?id=nHpSJCsBOi8C&dq=%22ponderous+thoughts%22&q=%22ponderous+thoughts%22#v=snippet&q=%22ponderous%20thoughts%22&f=false p. 464]:
#*: '''Ponderous''' thoughts take hold of the heart; musing maketh the fire to burn, and steady sight hath the greatest influence upon us.
#* '''1804''', ''The Literary Magazine and American Register'', vol. 2, no. 7, [http://books.google.ca/books?id=FB0AAAAAYAAJ&dq=%22ponderous+mind%22&q=%22ponderous+mind%22#v=snippet&q=%22ponderous%20mind%22&f=false p. 10]:
#*: The acute and '''ponderous''' mind of Dr. Johnson was not always right in its decisions.
#* '''1850''', ''Fraser's Magazine for Town and Country'', vol. 41, [http://books.google.ca/books?id=yU8ZAAAAYAAJ&dq=%22ponderous+consideration%22&q=%22ponderous+consideration%22#v=snippet&q=%22ponderous%20consideration%22&f=false p. 242]:
#*: They are the pleasantest of all companions, and perhaps the most affluent in correct opinions of ''men and things generally'', although little addicted to '''ponderous''' consideration or deep research.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[dense|Dense]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|heavy, massive}} [[heavy]], [[massive]]
* {{sense|serious, onerous}} [[oppressive]], [[serious]]

====Derived terms====
* [[ponderously]]
* [[ponderousness]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|heavy, massive, weighty}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ثقيل}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|raskas}}, {{t+|fi|painava}}, {{t|fi|järkälemäinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тяжёлый}}, {{t+|ru|уве́систый}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|serious, onerous, oppressive}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rasittava}}, {{t+|fi|raskas}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clumsy, unwieldy, or slow, especially due to weight}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kömpelö}}, {{t+|fi|raskas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pesant}}, {{t+|fr|maladroit}}, {{t+|fr|béotien}}, {{t+|fr|grossier}}, {{t+|fr|conformiste}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|māngaingai}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неуклю́жий}}, {{t+|ru|неповоро́тливый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pesado}}, {{t+|es|torpe}}, {{t+|es|beocio}}, {{t+|es|grosero}}, {{t|es|conformista}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dull or boring}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rasittava}}, {{t+|fi|pitkäveteinen}}, {{t+|fi|uuvuttava}}, {{t+|fi|raskas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lourd}}, {{t+|fr|pesant}}, {{t+|fr|écrasant}}, {{t+|fr|abrutissant}}, {{t+|fr|dogmatique}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|enfadonho|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ску́чный}}, {{t+|ru|ну́дный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|grave}}, {{t+|es|torpe}}, {{t+|es|abrumador}}, {{t+|es|agobiante}}, {{t+|es|aplastante}}, {{t|es|dogmático}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|characterized by or associated with pondering}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pohdiskeleva}}, {{t|fi|raskassoutuinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|dense}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|bosan|alt=membosankan}}, {{t-check|id|berat dan lambat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[et:ponderous]]
[[io:ponderous]]
[[kn:ponderous]]
[[ku:ponderous]]
[[hu:ponderous]]
[[mg:ponderous]]
[[ml:ponderous]]
[[my:ponderous]]
[[pl:ponderous]]
[[sh:ponderous]]
[[te:ponderous]]
[[vi:ponderous]]
[[zh:ponderous]]