==English==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|US}} A [[container]] for [[beer]] holding 7.75 US [[gallon]]s, equal to half the size of a standard beer keg.
#* '''2006''' Feb. 1, Sadie Jo Smokey, "[http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/food/articles/0201beer0201.html Beer lineup impressive for Super Bowl Sunday]," ''The Arizona Republic'' <small>(retrieved 12 Nov 2007)</small>:
#*: Depending on the crowd, a keg or '''pony keg''' may be the way to go. . . . For fewer than 20 guests, consider a '''pony keg''', which serves 80 drinks.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pony keg station]]

===Etymology 2===
{{clipping|lang=en|pony keg station}}, in turn from {{m|en|pony keg||container for beer}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|[[Cincinnati]]|colloquial}} A [[drive-through]] [[liquor store]]; by extension, any [[convenience store]].
#* {{cite book|title=The Heartland|first=Robert E.|last=McLaughlin|authorlink=w:Robert E. McLaughlin|publisher=Time|year=1967|page=16|asin=B0017KVFRE|url=//books.google.com/books?id=LSAM3B0YucoC}}
#*: A visitor may well be baffled by “'''pony keg'''” and “jack salmon,” but Cincinnatians know that the first is a store where beer may be purchased and the second is deep-fried pike.
#* {{cite journal|title=Queen City Report|first=Walter S.|last=Adams|work=[[w:Cincinnati (magazine)|Cincinnati]]|date=February 1976|volume=9|issue=5|pages=70–72|url=//books.google.com/books?id=d-8CAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA72}}
#*: For example, a '''pony keg''' is a small beer keg. In Cincinnati it is a place to buy a small beer keg.
#* {{cite journal|title=Guilt by Association|first=Laura|last=Pulfer|work=Cincinnati|date=December 1984|volume=18|issue=3|page=6|url=//books.google.com/books?id=WR4DAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA11}}
#*: I satisfy my junk food [[jones]] at a '''pony keg''' nearby where nobody asks questions and nobody sneers.
#* {{cite journal|title=Chefs: Real Men Eat Truffles?|first=Bonnie|last=Gordon|work=Cincinnati|date=July 1987|volume=20|issue=10|page=18|url=//books.google.com/books?id=ZB8DAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA18}}
#*: The bakery Bear purchased at 2342 Robertson Avenue—behind the Sharpsburg Public School and next door to a typical Cincinnati '''pony keg'''—is a Norwood landmark.
#* {{cite book|title=The Biggest City in America: A Fifties Boyhood in Ohio|first=Richard B.|last=Schwartz|publisher=University of Akron Press|date=1999|pages=163, 165|isbn=9781884836497|url=//books.google.com/books?id=FVp5AAAAMAAJ}}
#*: A '''pony keg''' (a few survive to this day) is a drive-through structure with cases of beer stacked on skids — golden liquid mountains, lining the walls of elongated garages or steel Quonset huts, looming above the consumer…
#*: Our '''pony keg''' of choice was on Montgomery Road, on the Norwood-Pleasant Ridge border, a small affair next to a hairdresser’s, neatly tucked behind the drugstore at the corner of Quatman and Montgomery.
#* {{cite journal|title=Running from the Devil|first=Steve Kissing|work=Cincinnati|date=February 2000|volume=33|issue=5|page=55|url=//books.google.com/books?id=6O0CAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA55}}
#*: Soon their cage was more crowded than the candy line at the neighborhood '''pony keg''' minutes after school let out.
#* {{cite book|title=Roadtripping USA 2nd Edition: The Complete Coast-to-Coast Guide to America|publisher=Let's Go|author=Caitlin Claire Vincent, editor|date=2007|page=47|isbn=9780312361822|url=//books.google.com/books?id=nLgoIQIJxRIC&pg=PA47}}
#*: In the Cincinnati area one can also find drive-through liquor stores (and for some people, regular liquor stores) referred to as '''pony keg'''s. (Elsewhere in the US, on the other hand, '''pony keg''' usually refers to a small keg.)
#* {{cite book|title=Nothing Like Sunshine: A Story in the Aftermath of the MLK Assassination|first=Ben|last=Kamin|publisher=Michigan State University Press|year=2010|page=1|isbn=978-0-87013-882-9|url=//books.google.com/books?id=pZ5DBAAAQBAJ&pg=PT7}}
#*: Not in “Cincy,” with the twang that was so often heard in casual conversation in the corner “'''Pony Keg'''” mini-marts. There you could buy snow cones, the daily ''Cincinnati Enquirer'', Hudepohl beer, five-cent Ibold cigars, and Reds baseball trading cards.
#* {{cite book|title=Madisonville|author=Ruth Ann Busald, Nancy Hanseman, Janet Meckstroth-Blank|publisher=Arcadia Publishing|year=2012|page=62|isbn=978-0-7385-9366-1|url=//books.google.com/books?id=79mz2T3ExYcC&pg=PA62}}
#*: Walter Beckman poses in front of Betts Service Station while his butter and egg truck fills up at the pump around 1926. The station was at the triangle corner of Madison, Plainville, and Camargo Roads. This same building became a “'''pony keg''',” a small drive-through convenience store, before it was torn down.
#* '''2014:''' {{cite news|title=Pony keg tradition lives on in Reading|first=Lance|last=Lambert|work=The Cincinnati Enquirer|date=February 2, 2014|url=http://www.cincinnati.com/story/money/2014/02/02/pony-keg-tradition-lives-on-in-reading/5102605/}}
#*: Their heyday might be in the rear-view mirror, but the region’s remaining '''pony keg'''s still sell cigarettes, lottery tickets, six packs and salty snacks. The Gertz '''Pony Keg''' is one of two remaining in Reading, a community that once had six of the little corner stores known for selling small barrels of beer.
#* {{cite book|title=Hot Music, Ragmentation, and the Bluing of American Literature|first=Steven Carl|last=Tracy|publisher=University of Alabama Press|year=2015|page=xiv|isbn=0817318658|url=//books.google.com/books?id=9CCDCAAAQBAJ&pg=PR14}}
#*: This man who dug graves for eight hours a day, then went to work pumping gas at night, and then worked the cash register at a '''pony keg''' on weekends.