==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/puːp/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-ca-poop.ogg|Audio (CA)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uːp|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
Recorded since circa 1405, from {{der|en|frm|poupe}}, from {{der|en|it|poppa}}, from {{der|en|VL.|*puppa}}, from {{der|en|la|puppis}}, all meaning "stern of a ship".

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# The [[stern]] of a [[ship]].
#* {{seeCites}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|en|stern}}

=====Antonyms=====
* {{l|en|bow}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|poop deck}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|stern}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To break seawater with the '''poop''' of a vessel, especially the [[poop deck]].
#* ''We were '''pooped''' within hailing of the quay and were nearly sunk.''
#* '''1819''', [[w:James Hardy Vaux|James Hardy Vaux]], ''Memoirs of James Hardy Vaux'', [[s:Memoirs of James Hardy Vaux/Volume 1/Chapter 18#207|Vol. I, Ch. XVIII, p. 207]]:
#*: Another night, as we were scudding before a heavy gale of wind, and a tremendous sea rolling after us, we had the misfortune to be '''pooped''', as the phrase is, by a wave or sea striking our stern, which stove in the cabin-windows, and rushing impetuously through the cabin, and along the main-deck, bore down all before it.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[embark]] a [[ship]] over the stern.

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain, possibly from {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|poupen}}. Compare {{cog|nl|poepen|t=to defecate}}, {{cog|nds-de|pupen|t=to fart; break wind}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete|intransitive}} To make a short [[blast]] on a [[horn]] {{defdate|from late 14th c.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete|intransitive}} To [[break wind]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
# {{lb|en|informal|childish|intransitive}} To [[defecate]].
#: ''His horse '''pooped''' right in the middle of the parade.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to toot}} {{l|en|toot}}
* {{sense|to fart}} ''See'' [[Thesaurus:flatulate]]
* {{sense|to shit}} ''See'' [[Thesaurus:defecate]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to make a short blast}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|töräyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|to break wind|break wind}}

{{trans-top-see|to defecate|defecate|poo|shit}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|হাগা}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cagar}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kakat|impf}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|[[kakken]] [[poepen]]}} <!-- was "[[kakken]] [[poepen]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, remove the wikilinks to the individual words. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t+check|nl|schijten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kakata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|faire caca}}, {{t|fr|faire une crotte}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κάνω κακά}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|うんち|tr=unchi suru|alt=うんちする}}, {{t+|ja|うんこ|tr=unko suru|alt=うんこする}}
* Kurdish:
*: Central Kurdish: {{t|ckb|گوو کردن}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|cacō}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|bæsje}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|srać}}, {{t+|pl|załatwiać się}}, {{t|pl|defekować}}, {{t|pl|oddawać kał}}, {{t|pl|oddawać stolec}}, {{t|pl|robić kupę}}, {{t|pl|wydalać kał}}, {{t|pl|wypróżniać się}}, {{t|pl|spuszczać kreta}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|fazer cocô}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ка́кать}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|ка́кити}}, {{t|sh|ка̏кати}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|kákiti}}, {{t+|sh|kȁkati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cagar}}, {{t|es|hacer popó}}, {{t|es|hacer aguas mayores}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bajsa}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagjebs}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|informal|often|childish}} [[fecal matter|Fecal matter]], [[feces]]. {{defdate|from the 18th c.}}
#* ''The dog took a '''poop''' on the grass.''
# The sound of a [[steam engine]]'s whistle; typically low pitch.
#: '''2001''', [[w:Rev. W. Awdry|Rev. W. Awdry]], ''Thomas the tank engine collection : a unique collection of stories from the railway series - p. 157 - Egmont Books, Limited, Aug 15, 2001''
#: Two minutes passed - five - seven- ten. "'''Poop'''! '''Poop'''!" Everyone knew that whistle, and a mighty cheer went up as the Queen's train glided into the station.

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Thesaurus:feces]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|pooper}}
* {{l|en|pooper scooper}}
* {{l|en|poopsicle}}
* {{l|en|YouTube poop}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|feces|poo|feces|shit|stool}}

{{trans-top|low-pitch sound of a whistle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuut}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Interjection====
{{en-intj}}

# {{lb|en|childish|euphemism}} Expressing [[annoyed]] [[disappointment]].

===Etymology 3===
* Recorded in World War II (1941) Army slang {{m|en|poop sheet||up-to-date information}}, itself of uncertain origin, perhaps [[toilet paper]] referring to etymology 2.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# A set of data or general information, written or spoken, usually concerning machinery or a process.
#* ''Here’s the info paper with the '''poop''' on that carburetor.''

===Etymology 4===
Origin uncertain, perhaps sound imitation.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[tire]], [[exhaust]]. Often used with ''out''. {{defdate|from early 20th c.}}
#* ''I'm '''pooped''' from working so hard.''
#* ''He '''pooped''' out a few strides from the finish line.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to tire, exhaust}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väsähtää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kifáraszt}}, {{t+|hu|kimerít}}, {{q|en|colloquial}} {{t|hu|kidögleszt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 5===
Origin uncertain, perhaps a shortening of [[nincompoop]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[slothful]] person.
#* '''1976''', {{w|Kurt Vonnegut}}, ''[[w:Slapstick (novel)|Slapstick]]'', Delacorte Press, Chapter 48, p. 224,
#*: Aside from battles, the history of nations seemed to consist of nothing but powerless old '''poops''' like myself, heavily medicated and vaguely beloved in the long ago, coming to kiss the boots of young psychopaths.
#* ''Hurry up, you old '''poop'''!''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|slothful person}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vätys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=oopp|oppo|po-po|popo}}

[[Category:en:Bodily functions]]
[[Category:en:Feces]]