{{also|Pop|POP}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=pop|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɒp/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-ca-pop.ogg|Audio (CA)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-pop.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒp|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
[[onomatopoeic|Onomatopoeic]] – used to describe the sound, or short, sharp actions.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{context|countable|lang=en}} A loud, sharp sound as of a cork coming out of a bottle.
#: ''Listen to the '''pop''' of a champagne cork.''
# {{context|uncountable|colloquial|lang=en}} An [[effervescent]] or [[fizzy]] drink, most frequently [[nonalcoholic]]; [[soda pop]].
#* '''1941''', ''LIFE'' magazine, 8 September 1941, page 27:
#*: The best thing on the table was a tray full of bottles of lemon '''pop'''.
# {{context|countable|colloquial|lang=en}} A bottle, can, or serving of [[effervescent]] or [[fizzy]] drink, most frequently [[nonalcoholic]]; [[soda pop]].
#: ''Go in the store and buy us three '''pops'''.''
# Shortened from {{term|pop shot}}: a quick, possibly unaimed, shot with a [[firearm]]. Possibly confusion, by [[assonance]], with {{term|pot}} as in {{term|pot shot}}.
#: ''The man with the gun took a '''pop''' at the rabbit.''
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} A [[portion]], a quantity dispensed.
#: ''They cost 50 pence a '''pop'''.''
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} The removal of a data item from the top of a [[stack]].
#* '''2011''', Mark Lutz, ''Programming Python'', page 1371:
#*: Pushes and '''pops''' change the stack; indexing just accesses it.
# A bird, the European redwing.
# {{context|physics|lang=en}} The sixth [[derivative]] of the [[position]] vector with respect to time (after [[velocity]], [[acceleration]], [[jerk]], [[jounce]], [[crackle]]), i.e. the rate of change of crackle.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|soda pop}} ''see the list at '''{{m|en|soda}}'''''

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from ''pop'' (noun)}}
* [[corporation pop]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[soda pop]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|loud, sharp sound}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|plop}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|poksahdus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хлопок|m|tr=xlopók|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|poff}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|soda pop}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|limsa}}, {{t+|fi|limu}}, {{t+|fi|limppari}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шипучка|f|tr=šipúčka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|läsk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|popp|ing}}

# {{context|ergative|lang=en}} To [[burst]] (something): to cause to burst.
#: ''The boy with the pin '''popped''' the balloon.''
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'', chapter 1:
#*: The waves came round her. She was a rock. She was covered with the seaweed which '''pops''' when it is pressed. He was lost.
#* {{quote-news|year=2011|date=December 14|author=Steven Morris|title=Devon woman jailed for 168 days for killing kitten in microwave|work=Guardian|url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/dec/14/woman-killed-kitten-microwave-jail}}
#*: The court was told Robins had asked if she could use the oven to heat some baby food for her child. Knutton heard a loud '''popping''' noise "like a crisp packet being '''popped'''" coming from the kitchen followed by a "screeching" noise. When she saw what had happened to the kitten she was sick in the sink.
# To act [[suddenly]], [[unexpectedly]] or [[quickly]].
# To [[hit]].
#: ''He '''popped''' me on the nose.''
# To [[ejaculate]].
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} To remove (a data item) from the top of a [[stack]].
#* '''2010''', Enrico Perla, ‎Massimiliano Oldani, ''A Guide to Kernel Exploitation: Attacking the Core'' (page 55)
#*: Once the callee (the called function) terminates, it cleans the stack that it has been locally using and '''pops''' the next value stored on top of the stack.
#* '''2011''', John Mongan, ‎Noah Kindler, ‎Eric Giguère, ''Programming Interviews Exposed''
#*: The algorithm '''pops''' the stack to obtain a new current node when there are no more children (when it reaches a leaf).
# {{context|UK|lang=en}} To [[place]] (something) (somewhere).
#: ''Just '''pop''' it in the fridge for now.''
#* Milton
#*: He '''popped''' a paper into his hand.
# {{context|transitive|slang|lang=en}} To [[swallow]] (a tablet of a drug).
#* '''1994''', Ruth Garner and Patricia A. Alexander, ''Beliefs about text and instruction with text'':
#*: We were drinking beer and popping '''pills''' — some really strong downers. I could hardly walk and I had no idea what I was saying.
# {{context|transitive|informal|lang=en}} To perform (a move or stunt) while riding a board or vehicle.
#* '''1995''', David Brin, ''Startide Rising'':
#*: Huck spun along the beams and joists, making me gulp when she '''popped''' a wheelie or swerved past a gaping hole...
#* '''2009''', Ben Wixon, ''Skateboarding: Instruction, Programming, and Park Design'':
#*: The tail is the back of the deck; this is the part that enables skaters to '''pop''' ollies...
# {{context|intransitive|of the [[ear]]s|lang=en}} To undergo [[equalization]] of [[pressure]] when the [[Eustachian tube]]s open.
#: ''My ears '''popped''' as the aeroplane began to ascend.''
# To make a pop, or sharp, quick sound.
#: ''The muskets '''popped''' away on all sides.''
# To enter, or issue forth, with a quick, sudden movement; to move from place to place suddenly; to dart; with ''in'', ''out'', ''upon'', etc.
#* Shakespeare
#*: He that killed my king {{...}} / '''Popp'd''' in between the election and my hopes.
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: a trick of '''popping''' up and down every moment
# To burst open with a pop, when heated over a fire.
#: ''This corn '''pops''' well.''
# To stand out, to be visually distinctive.
#* {{quote-news|year=2011|date=July 18|author=Robert Costa|title=The Battle from Waterloo: Representative Bachmann runs for president|work=National Review}}
#*: She also looked like a star - and not the Beltway type. On a stage full of stiff suits, she '''popped'''.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''pop'' (verb)}}
* [[pop a cap in someone's ass]]
* [[popcorn]]
* [[pop gun]], [[popgun]]
* [[pop in]]
* [[pop on]]
* [[pop off]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[pop one's clogs]]
* [[pop out]]
* [[popping crease]]
* [[pop shot]]
* [[pop someone's cherry]]
* [[Pop Tart]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[pop the question]]
* [[pop up]]
* [[pop-up]], [[popup]]
* [[pop over]], [[pop round]], [[pop around]]
* [[popper]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to burst something}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|poksauttaa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лопаться|impf|tr=lópatʹsja|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|лопнуть|pf|tr=lópnutʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|intransitive}}, {{qualifier|clap}} {{t+|ru|хлопать|tr=xlópatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|хлопнуть|tr=xlópnutʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|transitive}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to act suddenly, unexpectedly or quickly}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|to hit|hit}}

{{trans-see|to ejaculate|ejaculate}}

{{trans-top|computing: to remove a data item from the top of a stack}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place something somewhere}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyrkätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|совать|impf|tr=sovátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|сунуть|pf|tr=súnutʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: to swallow}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|nappailla}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform a move while riding a board or vehicle}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vetäistä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# Sound made in imitation of the sound.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sound made in imitation of the sound}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|хлоп|m|tr=xlop}}, {{t+|ru|хлопок|m|tr=xlopók}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pum}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|papa||lang=en}} or {{term|poppa||lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} Affectionate form of father.
#: ''My '''pop''' used to tell me to do my homework every night.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|affectionate form of father}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|papi}}, {{t+|ca|papa|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pap}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|папа|m|tr=pápa|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|папочка|m|tr=pápočka|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|папаша|m|tr=papáša|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|papi|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|paps}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|fatül}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[papa]], [[pa]]
* [[pap]], [[paps]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{term|popular||lang=en}}, by shortening.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|used attributively in set phrases|lang=en}} [[popular|Popular]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[pop music|Pop music]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from pop (popular)}}
* [[pop art]]
* [[pop culture]]
* [[pop group]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[pop music]]
* [[vox pop]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|pop music}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|popo}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|popptónleikur|m}}, {{t|fo|poppur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pop}}, {{t|fi|poppi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pop|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ποπ|f|tr=pop}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ポップ|tr=poppu}}, {{t|ja|ポップス|tr=poppusu}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|پاپ|tr=pâp|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поп-музыка|f|tr=pop-múzyka}}, {{t+|ru|поп|m|tr=pop}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|ru|попса|f|tr=popsá}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|pop|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
From colloquial {{etyl|ru|en}} {{term|поп|tr=pop|lang=ru}} and {{term|Попъ|tr=Pop'|lang=ru}}, from {{etyl|cu|ru}} {{term|попъ|tr=pop'|lang=cu|sc=Cyrs}}, from {{etyl|gkm|en}} (''see'' '''[[pope#Etymology 1|pope]]''').

====Alternative forms====
* [[pope]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Russian Orthodoxy|uncommon|lang=en}} A [[Russian Orthodox]] [[priest]]; a [[parson]].
#*'''1822''', Mikhaïlov Vasiliï, ''Adventures of Michailow'', 4
#*:There was at that time in the house of the Consul a '''Pop''' (or Russian Priest) named {{smallcaps|Iwan Afanassich}}.
#*'''2001''', Spas Raïkin, ''Rebel with a Just Cause'', 292 n.28
#*:The contemporary priest's... own children are ashamed and some abusers are openly "[[transmission|transmitting]] the '''pop'''" (a gesture of mocking the priest on the street, where a man would touch his [[private parts]] while smiling at other passers-by)
#*'''2006''', Peter Neville, ''A Traveller's History of Russia'', 123
#*:By the end of 1809 [[w:Catherine_Pavlovna_of_Russia|she]] was declaring to [[all and sundry]] that she would sooner marry 'a '''''pop''''' than the sovereign of a country under the influence of France'. Since a '''pop''' was a Russian Orthodox parish priest, the reference was hardly likely to endear her family to the French.

===Anagrams===
* [[OPP#English|OPP]], [[opp#English|opp]], [[opp.#English|opp.]], [[PPO#English|PPO]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English onomatopoeias]]
[[Category:English palindromes]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Noun===
{{af-noun}}

# [[doll]]

[[Category:Afrikaans palindromes]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|polypus|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|ca}} {{term|πολύπους|lang=grc}}.

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[octopus]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[polp]]

=====See also=====
* [[calamars]] {{g|m}}

===Etymology 2===
Abbreviation of [[popular]]

====Adjective====
{{ca-adj|inv}}

# [[popular]]

[[Category:Catalan palindromes]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɔp|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|f|-en|popje|dim2=poppetje}}

# [[doll]]
# [[cocoon]], [[pupa]]
# {{context|colloquial|lang=nl}} [[guilder]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{top4}}
* {{l|nl|etalagepop}}
* {{l|nl|sneeuwpop}}
* {{l|nl|sokpop}}
* {{l|nl|handpop}}
* {{l|nl|babypop}}
* {{l|nl|wajangpop}}
{{mid4}}
* {{l|nl|poppenkast}}
* {{l|nl|poppenspel}}
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|poppen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|poppen}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|en|nl}} {{term|pop|lang=en}}, possibly through shortening of {{term|popmuziek|lang=nl}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-|-}}

# [[#English|pop]], [[pop music]]

[[Category:Dutch palindromes]]
[[Category:nl:Toys]]

----

==Finnish==

===Adverb===
{{fi-adv|comp=-}}

# [[#English|pop]] {{gloss|popular}}

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# [[#English|pop]] {{gloss|popular music}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|pop|||a|lang=fi|i=0}}

[[Category:Finnish palindromes]]

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj}}

# pop (popular)

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m|pop}}

# [[#English|pop]], [[pop music]]

====Synonyms====
* [[musique pop]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[Category:French palindromes]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|porpi}}

[[Category:Lojban palindromes]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|cu|sh}} {{term|попъ|lang=cu|sc=Cyrs}}, from {{etyl|grc|sh}} {{term|sc=polytonic|παπάς|tr=papás|lang=grc}}, variant of {{term|sc=polytonic|πάππας||tr=páppas|daddy, papa|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pôp/|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=pȍp|r|поп|по̏п}}

# [[priest]] (usually Catholic or Orthodox)

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|pop|popovi
|popa|popova
|popu|popovima
|popa|popove
|pope|popovi
|popu|popovima
|popom|popovima
}}

[[Category:Serbo-Croatian palindromes]]

----

==Slovak==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pop/|lang=sk}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|cu|sk}} {{term|попъ|lang=cu|sc=Cyrs}}, from {{etyl|grc|sk}} {{term|sc=polytonic|παπάς|tr=papás|lang=grc}}, variant of {{term|sc=polytonic|πάππας||tr=páppas|daddy, papa|lang=grc}}.

====Noun====
{{sk-noun|g=m|gen=popa|pl=popi|decl=chlap}}

# [[priest]] (usually Catholic or Orthodox)

=====Declension=====
{{sk-decl-noun|pop|popa|popovi|popa|popovi|popom|popi|popov|popom|popov|popoch|popmi}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|en|sk}} {{term|pop|lang=en}}.

====Noun====
{{sk-noun|g=m|gen=popu|decl=dub}}

# [[pop music]], [[pop]]

=====Declension=====
{{sk-decl-noun-sg|pop|popu|popu|pop|pope|popom}}

[[Category:Slovak palindromes]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{head|es|noun|g=m}}

# {{context|lang=es|Uruguay}} [[popcorn]]

====Synonyms====
* [[cancha]] {{g|f}}
* [[cotufa]] {{qualifier|Venezuela}}
* [[palomita]] (de maíz) {{g|f}} {{qualifier|Colombia|Mexico|Spain}}
* [[pochoclo]] {{qualifier|Argentina}}
* [[poporopo]] {{qualifier|Guatemala}}
* [[rosita]] (de maiz) {{g|f}}

[[Category:Spanish palindromes]]

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|u|lar}}

# [[#English|Pop]]
# [[pop music|Pop music]]

====Declension====
{{tr-noun-c|u|t|pred=-|poss=+}}

[[Category:Turkish palindromes]]

[[ca:pop]]
[[cs:pop]]
[[cy:pop]]
[[de:pop]]
[[et:pop]]
[[el:pop]]
[[es:pop]]
[[eu:pop]]
[[fa:pop]]
[[fr:pop]]
[[gl:pop]]
[[ko:pop]]
[[hr:pop]]
[[io:pop]]
[[id:pop]]
[[is:pop]]
[[it:pop]]
[[kn:pop]]
[[ku:pop]]
[[hu:pop]]
[[mg:pop]]
[[ml:pop]]
[[my:pop]]
[[nl:pop]]
[[oc:pop]]
[[uz:pop]]
[[pl:pop]]
[[pt:pop]]
[[ro:pop]]
[[ru:pop]]
[[sm:pop]]
[[simple:pop]]
[[sh:pop]]
[[fi:pop]]
[[sv:pop]]
[[tl:pop]]
[[ta:pop]]
[[te:pop]]
[[chr:pop]]
[[tr:pop]]
[[vi:pop]]
[[zh:pop]]