==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|de|Porsche}}, the surname of the founder, {{w|Ferdinand Porsche}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈpɔːʃ/|/ˈpɔːʃ.ə/|/ˈpɔːʃ.i/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈpɔɹʃ/|/ˈpɔɹʃ.ə/|/ˈpɔɹʃ.i/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-Porsche.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|en-uk-Porsche.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# The German [[sports car]] [[manufacturer]] founded in 1931 and based in [[Stuttgart]]. Full name: [[w:Porsche|Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG]].

====Further reading====
* {{pedialite}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A car of this brand, reputably high performance and expensive.
#* '''2004''', Gaby Triana, ''Backstage Pass'', page 42
#*: Mom drives an Accord, which is quite a surprise if you think about it. I guess that says something about her response to fame. Anyone can drive a '''Porsche''' once they have the cash.
#* '''2005''', William Braxton Irvine, ''On Desire:<!--colon in original--> Why We Want What We Want'', Oxford University Press, {{ISBN|0195188624}}, page 26
#*: a male undergoing a garden-variety mid-life crisis is disturbed not by his sexual appetites but by the lack of variety in his sexual partners. He is disturbed not by the crass materialism of his life but by the fact that he is still driving a Ford when he could and should be driving a '''Porsche'''.
#* {{quote-song|en|year=2018|artist={{w|Maroon 5}} ft. {{w|Cardi B}}|title=Girls Like You (Remix)|album=Red Pill Blues|passage=I don't really want a white horse and carriage / I'm thinkin' more of white '''Porsches''' and karats}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|car of this brand}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|بُورْش|m|tr=burš}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|保時捷|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|保时捷|tr=Bǎoshíjié|sc=Hani}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|პორშე}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|पॉर्श}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ポルシェ|tr=Porushe|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|^포르쉐}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|पोर्श|f}}, {{t|mr|पोर्शे|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|porsche|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|По́рше|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=cehoprs|Cophers|Porches|cophers|porches}}

[[Category:English eponyms]]
[[Category:en:Automobiles]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|[ˈpɔʁʃə]}}
* {{audio|de|De-Porsche.ogg|Audio}}

===Proper noun===
{{de-proper noun|m}}

# {{surname|de}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|de|hu}} {{m|de|Porsche}}, the surname of the founder, {{w|Ferdinand Porsche}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{hu-IPA|porse}}
* {{hyphenation|hu|Por|sche}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|hu|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|Porsche}} {{gloss|the German sports car manufacturer}}
# {{l|en|Porsche}} {{gloss|a car of this brand}}

====Declension====
{{hu-infl-nom|Porsché|e}}{{hu-pos-tek|Porsché}}
or
{{hu-infl-nom|Porsché|o}}{{hu-pos-tok|Porsché}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|hu|porschés}}