==English==
{{was wotd|2007|March|8}}
{{wikipedia}}

===DESAMBIGUATION==

Portmanteau comes from the French words porter and manteau.  It is simply an anglicism introduced into the English language in the past 5 years with different meaning from different sources.  Porter (in French) means to hold.  Manteaux are jackets, winter coats and any other coats.  As for porte-manteau, also called in French “patère” it is simply a coat rack use to hang coats without a hanger that holds on a tripod as demonstrated at http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Porte-manteau  Portmanteau is not “the combination of any two words” such as Enbridge (Energy Bridge) this is an acronym.  Acronym is often associated with initialism which is a word created by the first letter from many words such as IBM (Int’l Business Machines).  At last, there are abbreviations such as “modem” (modulate, demodulate) or codec (coding, decoding).  Porte-manteau has also been used for small luggage needed for a short travel with basic clothing as we could compare it to carry-on luggage on an aircraft or train.  Porte-manteau was mainly used by French Canadians before the 80's being replaced by “patère” as porte-manteau is an expression from the “old French” from the 1700's.  A morpheme is the use of an existing word with either a prefix or suffix such as the word happiness, though the word "happy" does exist on its own but "ness" is noting else than a suffix. Porte-manteau has been in use since 1759 in French.

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|travelling case}} [[portmantua]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/pɔːtˈmæn.təʊ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/pO:t"m{nt@U/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|pôrt'măntō}}, {{IPA|/pɔːrtˈmæntoʊ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/pO:rt"m{ntou/}}
* {{audio|en-us-portmanteau-1.ogg|Audio 1 (US)}}
* {{audio|en-us-portmanteau-2.ogg|Audio 2 (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|portemanteau|lang=fr}}, literally {{term|porte||carry}} + {{term|manteau|lang=fr||coat}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|pl2=portmanteaux}}

# A large [[travel]]ling [[case]] usually made of [[leather]], and opening into two equal sections.
#* '''1667''', Charles Croke, ''Fortune's Uncertainty'':
#*: Rodolphus therefore finding such an earnest Invitation, embrac'd it with thanks, and with his Servant and '''Portmanteau''', went to Don Juan's; where they first found good Stabling for their Horses, and afterwards as good Provision for themselves.
# {{Australia|dated}} A school bag; often shortened to ''port'' or ''school port''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|case}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|baule|f|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|حقيبة سفر}}
* [[Breton]]: {{t-|br|mal|f|xs=Breton}}, {{t|br|malizenn|f|xs=Breton}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|голям}} {{t|bg|кожен}} {{t|bg|куфар|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kontaminace}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|koffer|f}}, {{t-|nl|valies|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|matkalaukku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|portemanteau|m}}, {{t+|fr|valise|f}}, {{t+|fr|malle|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Koffer|m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[valise#Interlingua|valise]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t-|no|koffert|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|koffert|m|xs=Norwegian Nynorsk}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|چمدان|tr=chamedan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|waliza|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|maleta|f}}, {{t+|pt|valise|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|чемодан|m|tr=čemodan}}, {{t+|ru|баул|m|tr=baúl}}, дорожная {{t+|ru|сумка|f}}
* Serbian: {{t|sr|кожни кофер|m|tr=kožni kofer|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|maleta|f}}, {{t-|es|valija|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|va li|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Coined by [[w:Lewis Carroll|Lewis Carroll]] in [[s:Through The Looking Glass (And What Alice Found There)|Through The Looking Glass]] to describe the words he coined in [[w:Jabberwocky|Jabberwocky]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|pl2=portmanteaux}}

# {{linguistics}} A [[portmanteau word]].
#* '''1872''', Lewis Carroll, ''[[s:Through The Looking Glass (And What Alice Found There)|Through The Looking Glass]]'' ([[s:Through the Looking Glass (And What Alice Found There)/Chapter VI|Chapter VI. Humpty Dumpty]]), the first usage in this sense:
#*: Well, “[[slithy]]” means “[[lithe]] and [[slimy]].” “Lithe” is the same as “active”. You see it’s like a '''[[portmanteau]]'''–there are two meanings packed up into one word.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|portmanteau word}} [[blend]], [[frankenword]], [[portmanteau word]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|portmanteau word}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|used only before a noun|of a word, story, etc.}} Made by combining two words, stories, etc., in the manner of a linguistic portmanteau.
#* '''2002''', Nicholas Lezard, ''Spooky tales by the master and friends'' in ''The Guardian'' (London) (December 14, 2002) page 30:
#*: The overall narrator of this '''portmanteau''' story - for Dickens co-wrote it with five collaborators on his weekly periodical, ''All the Year Round'' - expresses deep, rational scepticism about the whole business of haunting.
#* '''2002''', Nick Bradshaw, ''One day in September'' in ''Time Out'' (December 11, 2002) Page 71:
#*: We're so bombarded with images, it's a struggle to preserve our imaginations.' In response, he's turned to cinema, commissioning 11 film-makers to contribute to a '''portmanteau''' film, entitled '11'09"01' and composed of short films each running 11 minutes, nine seconds and one frame.

====Derived terms====
* [[portmanteau film]]
* [[portmanteau word]]

===See also===
* [[:Category:English blends|List of portmanteau words defined in Wiktionary]]
* [[w:Portmanteau|Wikipedia article on portmanteaus (cases and words)]]

[[Category:English autological terms]]

[[cs:portmanteau]]
[[fr:portmanteau]]
[[ko:portmanteau]]
[[io:portmanteau]]
[[kn:portmanteau]]
[[my:portmanteau]]
[[no:portmanteau]]
[[pl:portmanteau]]
[[ru:portmanteau]]
[[simple:portmanteau]]
[[fi:portmanteau]]
[[sv:portmanteau]]
[[tl:portmanteau]]
[[te:portmanteau]]
[[vi:portmanteau]]
[[zh:portmanteau]]