{{wikipedia|dab=port (disambiguation)|port}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɔ:t/}}, {{SAMPA|/pO:t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-port.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(r)t}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|port|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|portus||port, harbour}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A place on the [[coast]] at which ships can shelter, or dock to load and unload cargo or passengers.
# A town or city containing such a place.
# {{nautical|uncountable}} The left-hand side of a [[vessel]] when one is facing the front.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|place where ships dock}} [[harbour]], [[haven]]
* {{sense|town or city containing such a place}} [[harbour city]], [[harbour town]]
* {{sense|left-hand side of a vessel}} [[larboard]], [[left]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|right-hand side of a vessel}} [[starboard]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[airport]]
* [[seaport]]
* [[spaceport]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|dock or harbour}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[ميناء]]}} {{IPAchar|(mīna’)}} {{m}}
* Chinese: [[港口]] (gǎngkǒu)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|přístav|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|haven|f}}
* Estonian: [[sadam]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|satama}}
* French: {{t+|fr|port|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hafen|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λιμάνι|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|λιμένας|m|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kikötő}}
* [[Ido]]: [[portuo]]
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|pelabuhan|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|porto|m}}
* Japanese: [[港]]　([[みなと]], ''minato'')
* Korean: [[항구]] ([[港口]], hanggu)
* [[Malayalam]]: [[തുറമുഖം]] (thuRamukham)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|port|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|porto|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|порт|m|tr=port|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|puerto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hamn|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఓడరేవు]] (ODaraevu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|town or city with a dock or harbour}}
* Dutch: [[havenstad]] {{f}}
* Finnish: [[satamakaupunki]], [[satama]]
* French: {{t+|fr|port|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hafenstadt|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πόρτο|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: [[kikötőváros]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Ido]]: [[portuo]]
* Italian: [[città portuale]] {{f}}
* Polish: [[miasto portowe]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|puerto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hamnstad|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|left-hand side of a vessel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bakboord|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paapuuri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bâbord|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Backbord|n}}
* Greek: [[αριστερή πλευρά]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|babordo|m}}
* Polish: [[lewa]] [[burta]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: [[bombordo]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|babor|m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|babord|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hawaiian}}: [[awa]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[portus]] {{m}} (1)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Malay}}: [[bandar]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[taunga tima]], [[herenga]], [[aka]], [[poi]], [[ama]], [[mauī]], [[pōta]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{nautical}} Of or relating to port, the left-hand side of a vessel.
#: ''on the port side''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[larboard]], [[left]]

=====Antonyms=====
* [[starboard]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|of or relating to port, the left-hand side of a vessel}}
* Dutch: [[bakboord-]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paapuuri|alt=paapuurin}}
* French: du [[bâbord]]
* Greek: {{t+|el|αριστερό|n|tr=aristeró|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[lewoburtowy]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[portuário]]
* Swedish: [[babord]], [[babord]]-
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|porta||passage, gate}}, reinforced in {{etyl|enm}} from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|porte|lang=fro}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete|except|Scots}} An entryway, gate, or [[portal]].
# A doorway in the side of a [[ship]], especially for boarding or loading; a [[porthole]].
# {{curling|bowls}} A space between two [[stone]]s wide enough for a delivered stone or bowl to pass through
# An opening where a connection (such as a pipe) is made.
# {{computing}} A logical or physical construct in and from which data are transferred.
# {{computing}} A female connector of an electronic device, into which a cable's male connector can be inserted.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|entryway, portal|[[portal]]}}

{{trans-top|opening in the side of a ship}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|opening where a connection is made}}
* Finnish: [[liitin]], [[portti]] (''computers'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|port|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: logical or physical construct in and from which data are transferred}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|port}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|portti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θύρα|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|σύνδεση|f|sc=Grek}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|port|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Named from [[w:Oporto|Oporto]], a city in [[Portugal]] from where the wines were shipped.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A type of [[fortified wine]] traditionally made in [[Portugal]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|fortified wine}} [[porto]]<!--does this exist?-->, [[port wine]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fortified wine}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|porto}}, {{t+|nl|port|m}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|portvein}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|portviini}}
* French: [[vin de Porto]] {{m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Portwein|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: [[πορτό]] {{n}}, [[οίνος Πορτογαλίας]] {{m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|porto|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vinho do Porto|m}}
* Spanish: [[vino de Oporto]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[portvin]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
Abbreviation of [[portmanteau]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{AU|colloquial}} A schoolbag or suitcase.

===Etymology 5===
From {{etyl|fro}} (and {{etyl|fr}}) {{term|porter#verb|porter (verb)|lang=fro}}, {{term|port|port (noun)|lang=fr}},  from {{etyl|la}} {{term|portare||carry|lang=la}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{obsolete}} To carry, bear, or [[transport]].<!--Whence "porter".-->
# {{military}} To hold a weapon with both hands diagonally across the body
# To transfer from one state to another.
# {{computing}} To adapt a program so that it works on a different platform.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{sense|To carry}} {{term|porter}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|military use}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to transfer from one state to another}}
* Dutch: [[overdragen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muuntaa}}, {{t+|fi|siirtää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|porter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|portar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: to adapt a program so that it works on a different platform}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|portera}}, {{t+|sv|porta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{dated}} the way in which a person carries themselves; [[bearing]]
# something used to carry a thing, especially a frame for [[wick]]s in candle-making
# {{computing}} The act of adapting a [[program]] so that it works on a different [[platform]] from the one on which it originally worked
# {{computing}} a program that has been so adapted.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|one’s bearing}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something used to carry}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: act of adapting a program so that it works on a different platform}}
* Finnish: [[sovitus]], [[sovittaminen]], [[porttaaminen]] (''informal''), [[porttaus]] (''informal'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[portering]] {{c}}, [[portning]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: a program that has been so adapted}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite|Port|Port (place where ships dock)}}
* {{pedialite|Port wine}}
* {{pedialite|Port (computing)|Port (transfer of computer of computer data)}}
* {{pedialite|Porting|Porting (transfer of computer programs between platforms)}}

[[Category:Wines]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=n}}

# [[postage]]

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=m}}

# port, [[port wine]], [[porto]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-port.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/pɔʁ/}}
* {{SAMPA|/pOR/}}

===Noun===
{{infl|fr|noun|g=m}}

# port, [[harbour]]
# port, harbour city
# [[refuge]]
# act of wearing, act of carrying (from the verb [[porter]] (to wear or carry))
# [[transport]]
# [[postage]]
# [[stature]], way of carrying oneself

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-m1|port}}

# [[gate]]
# {{computing|lang=no}} A logical or physical construct in and from which data are transferred.
# {{computing|lang=no}} A female connector of an electronic device, into which a cable's male connector can be inserted.

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|ang}} {{term|portus|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ang|noun|g=m|g2=n}}

# port

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-port.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}

# {{computing}} port (''logical or physical construct in and from which data are transferred'')
# [[entrance]] (into a building), [[gate]], [[portal]]

===See also===
* [[portvin]]
* [[portvakt]]
* [[portkod]]
* [[porta]]

[[am:port]]
[[ca:port]]
[[de:port]]
[[et:port]]
[[el:port]]
[[fa:port]]
[[fr:port]]
[[gl:port]]
[[ko:port]]
[[io:port]]
[[it:port]]
[[kk:port]]
[[li:port]]
[[hu:port]]
[[nl:port]]
[[ja:port]]
[[oc:port]]
[[pl:port]]
[[pt:port]]
[[ru:port]]
[[fi:port]]
[[sv:port]]
[[ta:port]]
[[te:port]]
[[vi:port]]
[[vo:port]]
[[zh:port]]