{{also|Posh}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{unk|en}}

Most likely derived from {{der|en|rom|posh|t=half}}, either because {{m|rom||posh-kooroona|t=half a [[crown]]}} (originally a substantial sum of money) was used metaphorically for anything pricey or upper-class, or because ''posh-houri'' "half-penny" became a general term for money.

A period slang dictionary defines "posh" as a term used by thieves for "money : generic, but specifically, a halfpenny or other small coin".<ref>''Slang and its Analogues Past and Present'', volume 5 (London, 1902), John S. Farmer and W.E. Henley (editors), page 261</ref> An example is given from ''Page's Eavesdropper'' (1888): "They used such funny terms: 'brads,' and 'dibbs,' and 'mopusses,' and 'posh' ... at last it was borne in upon me that they were talking about money."

Evidence exists for a slang sense from the 1890s meaning "[[dandy#Noun|dandy]]", which is quite possibly related.<ref>World Wide Words, "Posh", [http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-pos1.htm]</ref>

A popular [[folk etymology]] holds that the term is an [[acronym]] for "port out, starboard home"<ref>http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-22378819</ref>, describing the cooler, north-facing cabins taken by the most aristocratic or rich passengers travelling from Britain to India and back. However, there is no direct evidence for this claim.<ref>snopes.com, [http://www.snopes.com/language/acronyms/posh.asp]</ref>

See also the articles mentioned in the [[#References|References]] section below for additional discussion.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/pɑʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/pɒʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-uk-posh.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒʃ|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# Associated with the [[upper class]]es.
#: ''She talks with a '''posh''' accent.''
# [[stylish|Stylish]], [[elegant]], [[exclusive]] (expensive).
#: ''After the performance they went out to a very '''posh''' restaurant.''
# {{lb|en|usually|offensive|especially|in|_|Scotland|and|Northern England}} [[snobbish|Snobbish]], [[materialistic]], [[prejudiced]], under the illusion that one is better than everyone else.
#: ''We have a right '''posh''' git moving in next door''

====Quotations====
* 1919: "Well, it ain't one of the classic events. It were run over there." Docker jerked a thumb vaguely in the direction of France. "At a 'Concours Hippique,' which is '''posh''' for 'Race Meeting.' &mdash; ''Punch, or the London Charivari,'' Vol. 156, June 18, 1919

====Translations====
{{trans-top|associated with the upper classes}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nóbl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|deftig}}
* Esperanto: {{t-needed|eo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yläluokkainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bourge}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|vornehm}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lussuoso}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|luksusowy}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аристократи́ческий}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|nóbl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pijo|m}}, {{t+|es|fresa|n}} {{qualifier|Mexico}}, {{t+|es|pituco|m}} {{qualifier|South America}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stylish, elegant, exclusive}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
* Dutch: [[chic#Dutch|chic]], [[bekakt]] {{qualifier|pejorative}}
* Esperanto: {{t-needed|eo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hieno}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chic}}
* German: {{t+|de|schick}}, {{t+|de|todschick}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κυριλέ}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sikkes}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|elegante}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chique}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шика́рный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pijo}}, {{t+|es|elitista}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{head|en|interjection|head=posh!}}

# {{non-gloss definition|An exclamation expressing [[derision]].}}
#* 1889: "The czar! '''Posh!''' I slap my fingers--I snap my fingers at him." &mdash; Rudyard Kipling, [http://www.gutenberg.org/files/12732/12732.txt ''The Man Who Was'']

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[fragment]]s produced by an impact
# [[slush]]

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|hops}}
* {{l|en|hosp}}
* {{l|en|OHPs}}
* {{l|en|shop}}
* {{l|en|soph}}

[[Category:English terms with unknown etymologies]]

----

==Maricopa==

===Noun===
{{head|mrc|noun}}
# [[cat]]

----

==Romani==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|rom|push}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|hy|rom}} {{m|xcl|փոշի|}}.

===Noun===
{{head|rom|noun}}

# [[dust]]

===References===
* {{R:xcl:HAB|փոշի|vol=IV|page=517a}}
* {{R:rom:Vaillant|pos’|page=123a}}