==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[position]] [[paper]]}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy|government|public policy}} An [[essay]] or [[report]] which expresses a position, [[conclusion]], or [[recommendation]] concerning a [[contested]] [[issue]] or [[undecided]] [[question]] and which usually contains [[argument]]s or [[reason]]s in support of this position.
#* '''1972''' Feb. 28, "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,905829,00.html The Supporting Cast in Peking]," ''Time'':
#*: He headed the China-watching Consulate General, and in 1963 drafted a '''position paper''' for President Kennedy that recommended rapprochement with China.
#* '''2001''', [[w:Robert_C._Solomon|Robert C. Solomon]], "Review of ''Alchemies of the Mind: Rationality and the Emotions'' by Jon Elster," ''The Philosophical Review'', vol. 110, no. 1, p. 104:
#*: The first chapter is a '''position paper''' on explanation in the social sciences, a plea for "mechanisms" as opposed to law-like principles.
#* '''2016''' Aug. 26, {{w|Mark Landler}}, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/27/us/politics/clinton-and-trump-campaigns-are-buzzing-about-the-race-for-the-cabinet.html?_r=0 Clinton and Trump Campaigns Are Buzzing About the Race . . . for the Cabinet]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 30 Oct 2016)</small>:
#*: They oversee groups that are churning out '''position papers''' on counterterrorism, cybersecurity, democracy and human rights, and global development.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|essay or report which expresses a position on a contested issue}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kannanotto}}, {{t+|fi|linjaus}}, {{t+|fi|ohjelma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|studio}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|dokument o službenom stavu|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[ku:position paper]]