==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{enPR|pŏt}}, {{IPA|/pɒt/}}, {{SAMPA|/pQt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-pot.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|ɒt}}

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}} {{term|pott|lang=ang}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[vessel]] used for [[cook]]ing or [[store|storing]] food.
# {{poker}} The [[money]] [[wager]]ed in [[poker]] or similar [[game]]s.
# {{rfv-sense}} {{poker}} A round in a poker game.
# A [[trap]] for [[catch]]ing [[lobster]]s, [[crab]]s, or [[fish]].
# {{context|slang|uncountable}} [[marijuana]], [[cannabis]].
# {{archaic}} An iron [[hat]] with a broad [[brim]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''',  The pot is an iron hat with broad brims: there are many under the denomination in the Tower, said to have been taken from the French; one of them is represented in plat 7, fig. 1 and 2. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 12.
# {{AU}} A glass of beer. Size varies regionally but is normally 10 fl oz (285 ml).
# A [[potshot]]
# {{slang}} A protruding [[belly]]; a [[paunch]].
# {{slang}} [[ruin|Ruin]] or [[deterioration]].
#*''His prospect went to '''pot'''.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a vessel}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[قدر]]}} (qedr) {{m}}, {{Arab|[[إناء|إنَاء]]}} (’inā’) {{m}}, {{Arab|[[طنجرة]]}} {{IPAchar|(ʈánjara)}} {{f}}
* Chinese: [[锅]] (guō)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pot|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ruukku}}, {{t+|fi|pata}}, {{t+|fi|kattila}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pot|m}}, {{t+|fr|marmite|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Topf|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|edény}}, {{t+|hu|fazék}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pentola|f}}, {{t|it|vaso|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|鍋}} ({{t|ja|なべ|tr=nabe}})
* Korean: {{t-|ko|단지|tr=danji}}, {{t+|ko|독|tr=dok}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[قازان]]}}, {{KUchar|[[مه‌نجه‌ڵ]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pote|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|oală|f}}
* Russian: [[горшок]] (goršók) {{m}}
* Serbian: [[lonac]] {{m}}, [[šerpa]] {{f}}, [[kotao]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|olla|f}}, {{t|es|marmita|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|gryta|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|money}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|potti}}
* German: {{t|de|Einsatz|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a trap}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|merta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t-|ko|통발|tr=tongbal}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{ttbc-top}}
*{{ttbc|CJKV Characters}}: [[鬷]], [[釡]], [[釜]], [[盬]], [[盎]], [[壺]], [[壶]], [[壷]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కుండ]] (kuMDa)
{{ttbc-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|terms derived from "pot"}}
*[[pot ale]]
*[[pot boiler]]
*[[pot holder]]
*[[pot roast]]
*[[pot-au-feu]]
*[[potable]]
*[[potash]]
*[[potassium]]
*[[potbelly]]
{{rel-mid3}}
*[[potboil]]
*[[potboiler]]
*[[pothead]]
*[[pothole]]
*[[potpie]]
*[[potpourri]]
*[[potshot]]
*[[potsherd]]
*[[pottage]]
{{rel-mid3}}
*[[potter]]
*[[pottery]]
*[[potty]]
*[[hot pot]]
*[[potted plant]]
*[[two pot screamer]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pots|potting|potted|potted}}

# To put (something) into a pot.
# To [[preserve]] by [[bottle|bottling]] or [[can]]ning, e.g. ''potted meat''
# {{context|snooker|billiards|pool|etc.}} To cause a ball to fall into a [[pocket]].
# {{UK}} To send someone to [[gaol]], expeditiously.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to put (something) into a pot}}
* Finnish: [[tölkittää]]
* German: etwas in einen [[Topf]] [[werfen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to preserve}}
* Finnish: [[tölkittää]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause a ball to fall into a pocket}}
* Finnish: [[pussittaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{ttbc-top}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: etwas in einem [[Topf]] [[aufbewahren]]
{{ttbc-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Possibly a shortened form of Mexican {{S.}} {{term|potiguaya||marijuana leaves|lang=es}} or {{term|potaguaya||cannabis leaves|lang=es}} or {{term|potación de guaya|lang=es}} literally ‘drink of grief’, supposedly denoting a drink of wine or brandy in which marijuana buds were steeped.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|slang|uncountable}} The [[drug]] [[marijuana]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|marijuana}}
* Dutch: [[wiet]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ruoho}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gras|n}}, {{t+|de|Marihuana|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|marihuána}}, {{t+|hu|fű}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|marihuana|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Webster NCD 1974}}
{{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}}

===Anagrams===
*[[opt]]
*[[top]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Containers]]
[[Category:Recreational drugs]]
[[Category:Snooker]]

----

==Basque==

===Noun===
{{infl|eu|noun}}

# [[kiss]]

----

==Croatian==

===Noun===
{{infl|hr|noun|g=m}}

# [[sweat]]

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pot/}}

===Noun===
{{infl|cs|noun|g=m|inanimate}}

# [[sweat]]

====Declension====
{{cs-noun-decl|pot|potu|potu|pot|pote|potu|potem|poty|potů|potům|poty|poty|potech|poty}}

[[Category:cs:Bodily fluids]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=m}}

# [[jar]], pot
# {{pejorative|lang=nl}} [[dyke]] ([[lesbian]])

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[arse|Arse]], [[bum]], [[behind]].
# [[luck|Luck]], good [[fortune]].
# [[drink|Drink]], alcoholic [[beverage]].
# [[#English|Pot]], [[kitty]], [[pool]] of money staked at cards.

====Derived terms====
*[[avoir du pot]] (or "du bol": be lucky)
*[[découvrir le pot aux roses]]
*[[en avoir plein le pot]]
*[[faire son pot]]
*[[pot de colle]]
*[[se manier le pot]]
*[[tourner autour du pot]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[ pot ]|lang=ro}}

===Verb===
{{ro-verbform|putea|person=1s|time=pres|tense=ind}}

# (I) [[can]]
#:''[[te]] '''pot''' [[vedea]], [[prost]]ule.''
#::I can see you, idiot.

===Verb===
{{ro-verbform|putea|person=1s|time=pres|tense=sub}}

# (I) [[can]]
#:''[[am]] '''să pot''' [[să]] [[merg]] [[cu]] [[tine]] [[mâine]] [[dimineaţă]]''
#::I'll be able to go with you tomorrow morning.

===Verb===
{{ro-verbform|putea|person=3p|time=pres|tense=ind}}

# (they) [[can]]
#:''[[calmează]]-[[te]], [[nu]] '''pot''' [[să]]-[[îţi|ţi]] [[străbată]] [[gând]].''
#::calm down, they can't read your mind.

====See also====
*[[poată]]

----

==Slovene==

===Noun===
{{infl|sl|noun|g=mf}}

# [[way]], [[road]]

===Noun===
{{infl|sl|noun|g=m}}

# [[sweat]]

----

==Tatar==

===Noun===
{{infl|tt|noun}}

# {{archaic|lang=tt}} A unit of volume: 1 pot, the volume of 16 kg of water.
# {{archaic|lang=tt}} A unit of weight:  1 pot = 40 [[qadaq]] = 16.380 kg .

====Declension====
{{tt-latin-noun|nıñ|qa|nı|ta|tan}}

====See also====
*{{pedialite|Obsolete Tatar units of measurement}}

[[Category:tt:Units of measure]]

[[ang:pot]]
[[ar:pot]]
[[cs:pot]]
[[de:pot]]
[[el:pot]]
[[fa:pot]]
[[fr:pot]]
[[gl:pot]]
[[ko:pot]]
[[io:pot]]
[[id:pot]]
[[is:pot]]
[[it:pot]]
[[ku:pot]]
[[hu:pot]]
[[nl:pot]]
[[pl:pot]]
[[ru:pot]]
[[simple:pot]]
[[sl:pot]]
[[fi:pot]]
[[ta:pot]]
[[te:pot]]
[[vi:pot]]
[[tr:pot]]
[[vo:pot]]
[[zh:pot]]