==English==

===Interjection===
'''potayto, potahto!'''

# {{label|en|informal}} That is a [[distinction without a difference]]!
#* '''2001''' August 31, Robert Hickey <robhic@bellsouth.net>, "Re: Vegetarian (fruitarian?) all raw food diet - Ca-AEP", ''alt.support.mult-sclerosis'', Usenet,
#*: "He says he has never had a **remission**. You thought he was being smug about 'lack of relapse(s)'."
#*: I think it's more like "'''potato - potahto'''." No remission to me says unchanging and, hence, no relapse.
#* '''2002''' July 2, Dave Witzel <dwitzel@nyc.roadrunner.com>, "Re: beers in NYC". ''alt.beer'', Usenet,
#*: "Who's whining, pissant? I'm berating!"
#*: '''Potato, potahto.'''
#* '''2004''', Elaine Cunningham, ''Shadows In The Darkness'', Tor/Forge, ISBN 076530970X, page 49,
#*: What he liked to call helpful, however, was more like Gwen's idea of controlling and manipulative. '''Potayto, potahto''', and don't let the door hit your ass on the way out.
#* '''2007''' October 7, David Rush <kumoyuki@gmail.com>, "Re: Nested Lambda function gives error in common lisp, guile, emacs lisp but works in scheme. Why?", ''comp.lang.scheme'', Usenet,
#*: "In Common Lisp (and presumably Emacs Lisp), functions are as first-class as in Scheme and elsewhere. You just have to do a bit extra to use them as first-class values, that's all."
#*: '''Potayto, potahto.''' That 'bit extra' is what makes them 'not first-class denotable' in my book.

====Synonyms====
* [[same difference]]
* [[tomato tomato]]

[[Category:English eye dialect]]