==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/paʊnd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-pound.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aʊnd|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|pund||a pound, weight|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*pundą||pound, weight}}, an early borrowing from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|pondō||by weight}}, ablative form of {{term|pondus|lang=la||weight}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*pend-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*spend-||to pull, stretch}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|pond|lang=nl}}, German {{term|Pfund|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|pund|lang=sv}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}} (sometimes '''pound''' after numerals)

# Short for [[pound-force]], a unit of force/weight.
# A [[unit]] of [[mass]] equal to 16 [[avoirdupois]] ounces (= 453.592 37 g). Today this value is the most common meaning of "pound" as a unit of weight.
#* '''28 July 2010''', Rachel Williams in The Guardian, ''Mothers who lose weight before further pregnancy 'reduce risks'''[http://www.guardian.co.uk/lifeandstyle/2010/jul/28/mothers-lose-weight-reduce-risks?INTCMP=SRCH]
#*: Research shows that retaining even one or two '''pounds''' after giving birth can make problems more likely in a subsequent pregnancy, experts said, with women who have several children facing a "slippery slope" if they continue to gain weight each time.
# A unit of [[mass]] equal to 12 [[troy weight|troy ounce]]s (≈ 373.242 g). Today, this is a common unit of weight when measuring precious metals, and is little used elsewhere.
# {{context|US|lang=en}} The symbol {{unsupported|#}} ([[octothorpe]], [[hash]]) <!--isn't this "pound sign" rather than "pound"?-->
# The unit of currency used in the United Kingdom and its [[dependency|dependencies]]. It is divided into 100 [[pence]].
#* '''November 11 2012''', Carole Cadwalladr in the Observer, ''Do online courses spell the end for the traditional university?''[http://www.guardian.co.uk/education/2012/nov/11/online-free-learning-end-of-university?INTCMP=SRCH]
#*: For students in developing countries who can't get it any other way, or for students in the first world, who can but may choose not to. Pay thousands of pounds a year for your education? Or get it free online?
#* '''1860''', {{w|George Eliot}}, ''The Mill on the Floss'', Book 5, Chapter 6
#*: "Only a hundred and ninety-three '''pound'''," said Mr. Tulliver. "You've brought less o' late; but young fellows like to have their own way with their money. Though I didn't do as I liked before I was of age." He spoke with rather timid discontent.
# Any of various units of [[currency]] used in Cyprus, Egypt, Lebanon, and formerly in the Republic of Ireland and Israel.
#* {{RQ:Joyce Ulysses}} Episode 4
#*: He glanced back through what he had read and, while feeling his water flow quietly, he envied kindly Mr Beaufoy who had written it and received payment of three '''pounds''', thirteen and six.
# Any of various units of [[currency]] formerly used in the [[United States]].
#: ''the Rhode Island '''pound'''; the New Hampshire '''pound'''''
# {{plural of|pound|nodot=1|lang=en}}[[Category:English plurals]] (unit of currency)
#* {{quote-book|year=2010|author=Steven Field|title=Dusty's Fort|publisher=|url=|isbn=1445292416|page=33|passage=He knocked out cans of warm cola at two '''pound''' fifty a time.}}

=====Usage notes=====
* Internationally, the "pound" has most commonly referred to the UK pound, £, (pound sterling). The other currencies were usually distinguished in some way, e.g., the "Irish pound" or the "punt".
* In the vicinity of each other country calling its currency the pound among English speakers the local currency would be the "pound", with all others distinguished, e.g., the "British pound", the "Egyptian pound" etc.
* The general plural of "pound" has usually been "pounds" (at least since Chaucer), but the continuing use of the Old English genitive or neuter "pound" as the plural after numerals (for both currency and weight) is common in some regions.  It can be considered correct, or colloquial, depending on region.

{{seecites}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|16 avoirdupois ounces}} [[lb]]
* {{sense|12 troy ounces}} [[lb t]]
* {{sense|UK unit of currency}} <big>[[£]]</big>, [[pound sterling]], [[GBP]], [[quid]] {{qualifier|colloquial}}, [[nicker]] {{qualifier|slang}}
* {{sense|Other units of currency}} [[punt]] {{qualifier|the former Irish currency}}
* {{sense|# symbol}} [[hash]] {{qualifier|UK}}, [[sharp]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* [[-pounder]]
* [[800-pound gorilla]]
* [[Amsterdam pound]]
* [[avoirdupois pound]]
* [[foot-pound]]
* [[foot-pound-second]]
* [[in for a penny, in for a pound]]
* [[metric pound]]
* [[pack on the pounds]]
* [[pink pound]]
* [[pound cake]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[pound-foolish]]
* [[pound-force]]
* [[pound-for-pound]]
* [[pound of flesh]]
* [[pound shop]]
* [[pound sign]]
* [[take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves]]
* [[ten pound pom]]
* [[ten pound tourist]]
* [[troy pound]]
{{der-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Pound (mass)|Pound (the unit of mass)}}
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Pound_Sterling|Pound (the UK unit of currency)}}
* {{sense|UK unit of currency}} [[crown]], [[farthing]], [[florin]], [[guinea]], [[penny]], [[pence]], [[shilling]], [[sovereign]], [[sterling]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|pound-force}}

{{trans-top|unit of mass (16 ounces avoirdupois)}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|باوند|tr=baund|m}}, {{t|ar|منا|f|tr=mannah}}, {{t|ar|رطل|m|tr=raṭll|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|رطل|m|tr=raṭll|sc=Arab}}, {{t|arz|باوند|m|tr=bawnd|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ֆունտ|tr=funt|sc=Armn}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|libra}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|фунт|m}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ပေါင်|tr=paung|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|lliura|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|磅|tr=bàng}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|libra|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|pund|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pond|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|funto}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|pund|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|naula}}, {{t+|fi|pauna}}
* French: {{t+|fr|livre|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pfund|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λίβρα|f}}, {{t+|el|μνα|f|tr=mnah}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|font}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|punt|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|libbra|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ポンド|tr=pondo}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|livre|f}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|파운드|tr=paundeu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|libra|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|svaras|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Pond}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|либра|f|tr=líbra}}, {{t|mk|фунта|f|tr=fúnta}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|paun}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|libra|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|punt|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|pund|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|funt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|libra|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|livră|f}}, {{t+|ro|pfund|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|фунт|m|tr=funt}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|punnd|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|фунта|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|funta|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|libra|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|funt|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|libra|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|ratili}} ''(noun 9/10)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pund|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|libre}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|pwys|m}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|פונט|tr=punt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unit of mass (12 troy-ounces)}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|troy-naula}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|US: symbol #|pound sign}}

{{trans-top|unit of currency}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|جنيه|m|tr=junayh|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|جنية|m|tr=gené|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ֆունտ|tr=funt|sc=Armn}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ပေါင်|tr=paung|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|lliura|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{qualifier|British pound}} {{t|cmn|英鎊|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|英镑|tr=Yīngbàng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|libra|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|pund|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pond|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|pundo}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|pund|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|punta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|livre|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pfund|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λίρα|f}}, {{t+|el|λίρα|f|tr=líra|sc=Grek}}
* Guernésiais: {{t|roa-grn|livre|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|לירה|f|tr=líra|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|पाउंड|tr=pā'uṇḍ|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|font}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|punt|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lira|f}}, {{t|it|lira sterlina}}, {{t+|it|sterlina}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ポンド|tr=pondo}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|louis|m}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|파운드|sc=Kore}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|svaras|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Pond|n}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|фунта|f|tr=fúnta}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|paund|m|f}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|lira|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|punt|m}}
* Norman: {{t|roa-nor|live|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|funt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|libra|f}}, {{t|pt|libra esterlina|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|liră|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|фунт|m|tr=funt}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|not|m}}, {{t|gd|punnd|m}}, {{t|gd|nota|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|фунта|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|funta|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|libra|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|libra|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pund|n}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ปอนด์|tr=bpon|sc=Thai}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|punt|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|*pound}}, {{term|pond|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|*pund||an inclosure}}, attested by {{term|pyndan||to enclose, shut up, dam, impound|lang=ang}}. Compare also {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|pynd||a cistern, lake|lang=ang}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A place for the [[detention]] of [[stray]] or [[wander]]ing [[animal]]s.
#* '''2002''', {{w|25th Hour}}, 00:27:30:
#*: (Police officer to a dog owner) "He'd better stay calm or I'll have the '''pound''' come and get him."
# A place for the detention of automobiles that have been [[illegal]]ly parked, [[abandon]]ed, etc.
# The part of a [[canal]] between two [[lock]]s, and therefore at the same water level.
# A kind of [[fishing]] [[net]], having a large enclosure with a narrow entrance into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward.
#* {{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]|chapter=1
|passage=Then there came a reg'lar terror of a sou'wester same as you don't get one summer in a thousand, and blowed the shanty flat and ripped about half of the weir poles out of the sand. We spent consider'ble money getting 'em reset, and then a swordfish got into the '''pound''' and tore the nets all to slathers, right in the middle of the squiteague season.}}

=====Usage notes=====
* {{w|Manx English}} uses this word uncountably.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[dog pound]]
* [[impound]]
* [[lobster pound]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|place for the detention of stray animals}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|útulek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|eläinkoti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fourrière|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zwinger|m}}, {{t+|de|Tierheim|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαντρί|n}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|póna|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|canile|m}}, {{t+|it|recinto}}, {{t|it|gattile|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|кафилерија|f|tr=kafilérija}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|kurungan}}, {{t|ms|kandang}}
* Polish: {{t+check|pl|zagroda|f|alt=zagroda dla bydła}} <!-- was "[[zagroda]] dla bydła" -->
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abrigo|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|punnd|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|perrera|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place for detention of automobiles}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|takavarikkoalue}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fourrière|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Verwahrstelle|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μάντρα|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|póna|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|autoparco}}, {{t|it|deposito auto}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pátio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of canal}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sulkuallas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|bacino idrico}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Danish: {{t-check|da|pund|n}}
* Esperanto: {{qualifier|1}} {{t-check|eo|funto}}, {{qualifier|2}} {{t-check|eo|pundo}}, {{qualifier|3}} {{t-check|eo|gardejo}}, {{qualifier|4}} {{t-check|eo|frapego}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|fourrière|f}} (3)
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{qualifier|1}} {{t-check|sk|funt|m}}, {{qualifier|2}} {{t-check|sk|libra|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound.
#* '''1644''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''{{w|Areopagitica}}; A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing, to the Parlament of England''
#*: And he who were pleasantly disposed, could not well avoid to liken it to the exploit of that gallant man, who thought to '''pound''' up the crows by shutting his park gate.

===Etymology 3===
From an alteration of earlier {{term|poun|lang=en}}, {{term|pown|lang=en}}, from {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|pounen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|pūnian||to pound, beat, bray, bruise, crush}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*pūnōną||to break to pieces, pulverise}}. Related to {{etyl|stq|-}} {{term|Pün||debris, fragments|lang=stq}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|puin||debris, fragments, rubbish|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|pun||fragments|lang=nds}}. Perhaps influenced by '''Etymology 2''' {{etyl|enm|-}} {{m|enm|*pound}}, {{term|pond|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|*pund}}, {{term|pynd|lang=ang}}, in relation to the hollow [[mortar]] for pounding with the [[pestle]].

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|poun}}, {{l|en|pown}} {{qualifier|obsolete or dialectal}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To strike hard, usually repeatedly.
#*{{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=12
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]
|passage=She had Lord James' collar in one big fist and she '''pounded''' the table with the other and talked a blue streak. Nobody could make out plain what she said, for she was mainly jabbering Swede lingo, but there was English enough, of a kind, to give us some idee.}}
# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[crush]] to pieces; to [[pulverize]].
# {{label|en|transitive|slang}} To eat or drink very quickly.
#: {{ux|en|You really '''pounded''' that beer!}}
# {{label|en|transitive|baseball|slang}} To [[pitch]] consistently to a certain location.
#: {{ux|en|The pitcher has been '''pounding''' the outside corner all night.}}
# {{label|en|intransitive|of a body part, generally heart, blood, or head}} To [[beat]] strongly or [[throb]].
#: {{ux|en|As I tiptoed past the sleeping dog, my heart was '''pounding''' but I remained silent.}}
#: {{ux|en|My head was '''pounding'''.}}
# {{label|en|transitive|slang}} To [[penetrate]] [[sexual]]ly, with [[vigour]].
#: {{ux|en|I was '''pounding''' her all night!}}
# To advance heavily with measured steps.
#* '''1899''', {{w|Joseph Conrad}}, ''[[s:Heart of Darkness|Heart of Darkness]]'', [[s:Heart of Darkness/Section I|section 1]]
#*: We '''pounded''' along, stopped, landed soldiers; went on, landed custom–house clerks to levy toll in what looked like a God–forsaken wilderness, with a tin shed and a flag–pole lost in it; landed more soldiers—to take care of the custom–house clerks, presumably.
# {{label|en|engineering}} To make a [[jarring]] [[noise]], as when running.
#: {{ux|en|The engine '''pounds'''.}}
# {{context|slang|dated|lang=en}}  To [[wager]] a [[pound]] on. 
#*'''1854''', Dickens, ''Hard Times'', Chapter 4:
#*:Good-bye, my dear!' said Sleary. 'You'll make your fortun, I hope, and none of our poor folkth will ever trouble you, I'll '''pound''' it.  

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|drink quickly}} [[Wikisaurus:drink]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pounding]]
* [[pound down]]
* [[pound the pavement]]
* [[pound the table]]
* [[pound sand]]
* [[pound town]]
* [[pound up]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to strike hard repeatedly}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|bušit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beuken}}
* Ewe: {{t|ee|to}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|takoa}}, {{t|fi|rusikoida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pilonner}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|banga}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|battere}}, {{t+|it|martellare}}, {{t+|it|colpire}}, {{t+|it|pestare}}, {{t+|it|flagellare}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|daužyti}}
* Old Norse: {{t|non|banga}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pisa}}, {{t+|ro|bate}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|колоти́ть|impf|tr=kolotítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|pran}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|buail}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pilar}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|దంచు}}
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|!qhāã}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|crush to pieces}}
* Ewe: {{t|ee|to}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murskata}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|banga}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|frantumare}}, {{t|it|tritare}}, {{t|it|triturare}}, {{t|it|polverizzare}}
* Korean: ([[방아]])[[찧다]] ((bang-a-)jjihda), {{t|ko|빻다|tr=ppahda}}
* Old Norse: {{t|non|banga}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|triturar}}, {{t+|pt|pulverizar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|толочь|impf|tr=tolóčʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|раздробля́ть|impf|tr=razdrobljátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|дроби́ть|impf|tr=drobítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|моло́ть|impf|tr=molótʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|champ}}, {{t|sco|pran}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pulverizar}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|దంచు}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: eat or drink quickly}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|imaista}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ingurgitare}}, {{t|it|trangugiare}}, {{t|it|affogarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|devorar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ло́пать|impf|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|slang, to eat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: to pitch consistently to a certain location}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pommittaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to beat strongly or throb}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakata}}, {{t|fi|jyskyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|battere}}, {{t|it|picchiare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: to penetrate sexually, with vigour}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ryskyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to advance heavily with measured steps}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|marssia}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a jarring noise}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jyskyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[bang]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A hard blow.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|hard blow}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|botta}}, {{t|it|colpo forte}}, {{t+|it|tonfo}}, {{t|it|martellio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|batida|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Canals]]
[[Category:en:Currency]]
[[Category:en:Units of measure]]

[[az:pound]]
[[ca:pound]]
[[cs:pound]]
[[de:pound]]
[[et:pound]]
[[el:pound]]
[[es:pound]]
[[fa:pound]]
[[fr:pound]]
[[ko:pound]]
[[hy:pound]]
[[io:pound]]
[[it:pound]]
[[kn:pound]]
[[ku:pound]]
[[lo:pound]]
[[li:pound]]
[[hu:pound]]
[[mg:pound]]
[[ml:pound]]
[[my:pound]]
[[ja:pound]]
[[pl:pound]]
[[pt:pound]]
[[ro:pound]]
[[ru:pound]]
[[sm:pound]]
[[simple:pound]]
[[fi:pound]]
[[tl:pound]]
[[ta:pound]]
[[tt:pound]]
[[te:pound]]
[[chr:pound]]
[[tr:pound]]
[[vi:pound]]
[[zh:pound]]