==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[powdre]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|poudre||lang=enm}}, {{term|pouldre||lang=enm}}, {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|poudre||lang=fro}}, {{term|poldre||lang=fro}}, {{term|puldre||lang=fro}}, {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|pulvis||lang=la|dust, powder}}. compare [[pollen]] fine flour, mill dust, E. pollen. Compare [[polverine]], [[pulverize]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/paʊ.də(ɹ)/}}
* {{audio|en-us-powder.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aʊdə(ɹ)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay; dust.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]:
#*: Grind their bones to '''powder''' small.
# An explosive mixture used in gunnery, blasting, etc.; [[gunpowder]].
# {{context|informal|lang=en}} Light, dry, fluffy [[snow]].

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from powder (noun)}}
* [[Atlas powder]]
* [[baking powder]]
* [[Bolivian marching powder]]
* [[powder blue]]
* [[powder down]]
* [[powder-down feather]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[powder-down patch]]
* [[powder hose]]
* [[powder hoy]]
* [[powder magazine]]
* [[powder mine]]
* [[powder monkey]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[powder post]]
* [[powder puff]]
* [[powder room]]
* [[take a powder]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fine particles}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|pluhur|m}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|مسحوق|m|tr=masHuuq|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փոշի|tr=p'oši}}
* Chamicuro: {{tø|ccc|ijpe}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|粉|tr=fěn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|prach}}, {{t+|cs|prášek}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|poeder|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pulvoro}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jauhe}}, {{t+|fi|pulveri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poudre|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ფხვნილი|tr=p'xvnili|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Puder|m}}, {{t+|de|Pulver|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκόνη}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אבקה|f|tr=avka}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|por}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|duft|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|polvere|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|粉|tr=こな, kona|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|가루|tr=garu|sc=Hang}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|milteliai|m-p}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|serbuk}}
* Mòcheno: {{tø|mhn|pulver}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|pudder|n}}, {{t+|no|støv|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|پودر|tr=pudr|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|proszek|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pó|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|pudră|f}}, {{t-|ro|pulbere|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|порошок|m|tr=porošók}}, {{qualifier|cosmetics, medicine}} {{t+|ru|пудра|f|tr=púdra|sc=Cyrl}}, {{qualifier|medicine}} {{t+|ru|присыпка|f|tr=prisýpka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|fùdar|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|prašak|m}}, {{t-|sh|prȃh|m}}, {{t-|sh|pràšina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|polvo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pulver|n}}, {{t-|sv|puder|n}}, {{t+|sv|stoft|n}}
* Telugu: [[పొడి]] (poDi), [[చూర్ణము]] (choorNamu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|pudra}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|gunpowder}}

{{trans-top|snow}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poudreuse|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To reduce to fine particles; to [[pound]], [[grind]], or [[rub]] into a powder.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder.
#: ''to '''powder''' the hair''
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#*: A circling zone thou seest / '''Powdered''' with stars.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To be reduced to powder; to become like powder.
#: ''Some salts '''powder''' easily.''
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To use powder on the hair or skin.
#: ''She paints and '''powders'''.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[sprinkle]] with [[salt]]; to [[corn]], as [[meat]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to reduce to fine particles}} [[pound]], [[grind]], [[comminute]], [[pulverize]], [[triturate]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to reduce to fine particles}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|fijnmalen}}, {{t+|nl|malen}}
* Finnish: [[jauhaa]] [[hieno|hienoksi]]
* French: {{t-|fr|réduire en poudre}}, {{t+|fr|pulvériser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|pulverisere}}, {{t+|no|knuse}}
* Spanish: [[reducir a polvo]], [[pulverizar]], [[triturar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to sprinkle with powder}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|bepoederen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|sirotella}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poudrer}}, {{t+|fr|pulvériser|alt=pulvériser (sur)}}, {{t+|fr|saupoudrer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|púdráil}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|pudre}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|espolvorear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be reduced to powder}}
* French: {{t-|fr|se réduire en poudre}}, {{t-|fr|se pulvériser}}
* Spanish: [[pulverizarse]], [[hacerse polvo]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Telugu: [[పొడి చేయు]] (poDi caeyu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to use powder on the hair or skin}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|puuteroida}}
* French: {{t-|fr|se poudrer}}, {{t-|fr|se repoudrer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|pudre}}
* Spanish: [[ponerse polvos]], [[empolvarse]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedia}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

[[ar:powder]]
[[cs:powder]]
[[de:powder]]
[[et:powder]]
[[es:powder]]
[[fa:powder]]
[[fr:powder]]
[[ko:powder]]
[[io:powder]]
[[id:powder]]
[[it:powder]]
[[kn:powder]]
[[kk:powder]]
[[ku:powder]]
[[li:powder]]
[[hu:powder]]
[[mg:powder]]
[[ml:powder]]
[[my:powder]]
[[nl:powder]]
[[pl:powder]]
[[ru:powder]]
[[sa:powder]]
[[simple:powder]]
[[fi:powder]]
[[sv:powder]]
[[ta:powder]]
[[te:powder]]
[[chr:powder]]
[[tr:powder]]
[[vi:powder]]
[[zh:powder]]