==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[præcedent]] {{qualifier|archaic}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|praecēdēns|lang=la}}, present participle of {{term|praecedo|praecēdere|lang=la|to precede}}; See [[precede]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|adjective}} {{IPA|/pɹᵻˈsiː.dənt/}}
* {{a|UK|noun}} {{enPR|prĕ'sĭ-dənt}}, {{IPA|/ˈpɹɛ.sᵻ.dənt/}}
* {{a|US|adjective}} {{IPA|/pɹiˈsidn̩t/}}
* {{a|US|noun}} {{IPA|/ˈpɹɛsədn̩t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-precedent.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{a|Aus|noun}} {{IPA|/ˈpɹi.sɪ.dənt/}} {{rfp|lang=en|check the Australian pronunciation; I transcribed it from actual speech. -sche.}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act in the past which may be used as an example to help decide the outcome of similar instances in the future.
#* Hooker
#*: Examples for cases can but direct as '''precedents''' only.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} A decided case which is cited or used as an example to justify a judgment in a subsequent case.
# {{rfd-sense}} {{context|obsolete|with definite article|lang=en}} The [[aforementioned]] (thing).
#* '''1621''', {{w|Robert Burton}}, ''{{w|The Anatomy of Melancholy}}'', New York 2001, p. 74:
#*: A third argument may be derived from the '''precedent'''.
# {{rfd-sense}} The previous version.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[rough]] [[draught]] of a [[writing]] which precedes a finished copy.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from precedent ''(noun)''}}
* [[binding precedent]]
* [[declaratory precedent]]
* [[original precedent]]
* [[persuasive precedent]]
* [[precedented]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[precedential]]
* [[precedent-setting]]
* [[precedent sub silentio]]
* [[unprecedented]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|past act used as example}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سابقة|sc=Arab}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|precedente|m}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|precedent|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|實例|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|实例|tr=shílì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|範例|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|范例|tr=fànlì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|事例|tr=shìlì|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|precedent}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ennakkotapaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|précédent}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|precedente|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Präzedens|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προηγούμενο|n|tr=prοigoúmeno}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|precedens}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|precedente|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|先例|tr=senrei}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|사례|tr=sarye|sc=Hang}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|преседан|m|tr=presedán}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|precedens|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|precedente|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|precedent}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прецедент|m|tr=pr'eced'ént}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|precedente|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|prior judgment in law}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|precedent|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|判例|tr=pànlì|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|jurisprudentie}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|precedento}}, {{t|eo|precedenco}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ennakkotapaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jurisprudence}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|precedente|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Präzedenzfall|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δεδικασμένο|n|tr=dedikasméno}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|precedens}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|precedente|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|判例|tr=hanrei}}
* Korean: [[판례]] (pallye) (law only)
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|преседан|m|tr=presedán}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|precedens|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|precedente|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прецедент|m|tr=pr'eced'ént}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|precedente|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Happening or taking place earlier in time; [[previous]] or [[preceding]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{cx|now|_|rare|lang=en}} Coming before in a particular [[order]] or arrangement; [[preceding]], [[foregoing]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1621''', {{w|Robert Burton}}, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', III.2.1.i:
#*: In the '''precedent''' section mention was made, amongst other pleasant objects, of this comeliness and beauty which proceeds from women […].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|earlier in time}}
* French: {{t+|fr|précédent}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προηγούμενος|tr=prοigoúmenos}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|precedente}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|претходен|m|tr=préthoden}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|предшествующий|tr=pr'edšéstvujuš'ij}}, {{t+|ru|предыдущий|tr=pr'edydúš'ij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|legal|lang=en}} To provide precedents for.
# {{context|transitive|legal|lang=en}} To be a precedent for.

===See also===
* [[stare decisis]]

[[et:precedent]]
[[el:precedent]]
[[es:precedent]]
[[eo:precedent]]
[[fr:precedent]]
[[ko:precedent]]
[[hy:precedent]]
[[io:precedent]]
[[kn:precedent]]
[[hu:precedent]]
[[ml:precedent]]
[[my:precedent]]
[[nl:precedent]]
[[ja:precedent]]
[[pl:precedent]]
[[ro:precedent]]
[[simple:precedent]]
[[fi:precedent]]
[[sv:precedent]]
[[ta:precedent]]
[[te:precedent]]
[[chr:precedent]]
[[vi:precedent]]
[[zh:precedent]]