==English==
===Alternative forms===
*[[pre-orgasmic]]

===Etymology===
From {{prefix|pre|orgasmic|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˌpɹiːɔːˈɡazmɪk/|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Happening before an [[orgasm]].
#*'''1977''', Hardin Blair Jones, ''Sensual Drugs'', p. 136:
#*:This hallucinogen is also a mild stimulant and hence enhances slightly the '''preorgasmic''' sensations.
#*'''2003''', Ma Ananda Sarita, ''Ecstatic Sex'', p. 61:
#*:'''Pre-orgasmic''' build-up generally takes a longer time for the woman than it does for the man.
#*'''2008''', Michael J Aminoff, ''Neurology and General Medicine'', p. 666:
#*:These types of headache are rare; orgasmic headache is about four times more frequent than '''preorgasmic''' headache.
# Having not yet experienced an [[orgasm]] (especially of a woman).
#*'''1980''', Sandra Risa Leiblum et al., ''Principles and Practice of Sex Therapy'', p. 54:
#*:Although Mrs. A. reported experiencing more pleasure during sex, she was still '''preorgasmic'''.
#*'''1993''', Rebecca J Donatelle, ''To Health'', p. 167:
#*:In the past, women who did not experience orgasm were called ''frigid''. This term is no longer used because it implies that the woman is at fault. Instead, the term '''preorgasmic''' has been substituted, since most women can be taught to become orgasmic.
#*'''2000''', Stephanie S Covington, ''Awakening Your Sexuality'', p. 81:
#*:When her therapist informed her that masturbation is the best way for '''preorgasmic''' women to learn how to have an orgasm, she was frightened.

[[Category:en:Sexuality]]