==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|presto change-o}}

===Etymology===
From {{m|en|presto}} + rhyming variation of {{m|en|change}}.

===Interjection===
{{en-interj|head=presto chango}}

# {{lb|en|informal}} Indicates the [[suddenness]] of a [[change]] or [[transformation]], as a magic trick in which one object appears to be suddenly transformed into another.
#* '''1929''', ''Business Week'', advertisement,
#*: Just one touch lets you go from black to a second color. '''Presto. Chango'''. Or back to black. '''Presto. Chango.''' Color copies have never been easier.
#* '''1937''' April 24, ''Washington Post'', page 12,
#*: '''PRESTO CHANGO!''' From a dreary, commonplace piece to a smart colorful chair shining with personality.
#* '''1978''', Richard Rhodes, ''Holy Secrets'', Doubleday, {{ISBN|0385025653}}, page 31,
#*: "...An' '''presto-chango''', you got yourself a twenty-eight-by-sixty-foot house."
#* '''1983''', Lois Lowry, ''Taking Care of Terrific'', Houghton Mifflin Children's Books, {{ISBN|0395340705}}, page 158,
#*: Tom nodded solemnly. "'''Presto Chango'''," he said. Then he looked at the policeman again. "My name is Joshua Cameron," he announced, and the policeman wrote that down.
#* '''2000''', Candace Sherk Savage, ''Witch: The Wild Ride from Wicked to Wicca'', Sterling Publishing, {{ISBN|1550548786}}, page 8,
#*: Watch and before your eyes, '''presto chango''', a capital crime of the most hideous sort will be turned into a superstition,....
#* '''2014''', Mike Lutz, ''God Every Day: 365 Life Application Devotions''
#*: Jesus is the ultimate stain lifter. He removes the stain of our sin, and '''presto, chango'''!