==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|sg=[[present]] [[participle]]}}

# {{grammar}} A [[verb]] form that indicates an ongoing action or state in the present and which functions as an [[adjective]].

====Usage notes====
In English, the present participle takes the suffix ''[[-ing]]'' and is preceded by a form of the verb ''to [[be]]'' to make the [[progressive tense]]s of a verb. When it functions as a noun it is called a gerund. It may also function as an adjective, especially in [[attributive]] use. It can evolve to become either a true [[noun]] or a true [[adjective]], or both, with a shift in meaning, sometime substantial. To see examples, look for words ending in -ing in [[:Category:English adjectives]] and [[:Category:English nouns]].
What is the present participle?
The present participle is a participle that ends in ing. It can be used with the auxilliary verb 'to be' to form the continuous tense. It always takes the ‘ing’ form of the verb, even irregular verbs have an ‘...ing’ form, in fact virtually all English words that end with ‘ing’ are present participles.
For example:-
I am learning English. (Learning is part of the continuous verb phrase 'am learning') 
We were running through the woods. (Running is part of the continuous verb phrase 'were running' ). 
It can also be used as an adjective.
For example:- 
As an adjective: I am a working woman. (Working is used here as an adjective.) 
!Note :-
The present participle can also be used as a noun denoting the action of a verb a gerund. But remember the present participle can be used as a verb or an adjective whilst the gerund is used as a noun

====Related terms====
* [[future participle]] <!-- Latin futurus, venturus, amaturus... -->
* [[participle]]
* [[past participle]]
* [[perfect passive participle]]

====See also====
* [[gerund]]
* [[gerundive]]
* [[periphrastic]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|verb form that indicates an ongoing action}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|příčestí přítomné|n}}
* Dutch: [[onvoltooid deelwoord]] ([[tegenwoordig deelwoord]]) {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|partisiipin preesens}}
* French: {{t+|fr|participe présent|m}}
* German: [[Mittelwort der Gegenwart]] {{n}}, [[Partizipium präsentis]] {{n}}
* Greek: [[μετοχή του ενεστώτα]] (metokhí tou enestóta) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|folyamatos melléknévi igenév}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|lýsingarháttur nútíðar|m}}
* Japanese: [[現在分詞]] ([[げんざいぶんし]], genzai bunshi)
* Latin: {{t|la|participium praesentis|m|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|particípio presente|m}}
* Russian: [[причастие настоящего времени]] (pričástije nastojáščevo vrémeni) {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|participio presente|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|presensparticip|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English present participles|*]]

[[fr:present participle]]
[[fy:present participle]]
[[it:present participle]]
[[hu:present participle]]
[[nl:present participle]]
[[no:present participle]]
[[simple:present participle]]
[[fi:present participle]]
[[ta:present participle]]
[[tr:present participle]]