==English==

{{wikipedia|dab=prick}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pɹɪk/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|prik|lang=enm}}, {{term|prikke|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|prica|lang=ang}}, {{term|pricu||a sharp point, minute mark, spot, dot, small portion, prick|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*prikô}}, {{m|gem-pro|*prikō||a prick, point}}, of uncertain origin, perhaps from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*breyǵ-||to scrape, scratch, rub, prickle, chap}}. Cognate with West Frisian {{term|prik||small hole|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|prik||point, small stick|lang=nl}}, Danish {{term|prik||dot|lang=da}}, Icelandic {{term|prik||dot, small stick|lang=is}}. Pejorative context came from [[prickers]], or witch-hunters.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small [[hole]] or [[perforation]], caused by [[pierce|piercing]]. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
# An [[indentation]] or small [[mark]] made with a pointed object. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[dot]] or other diacritical mark used in writing; a [[point]]. {{defdate|10th-18th c.}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A tiny [[particle]]; a small amount of something; a [[jot]]. {{defdate|10th-18th c.}}
# A small pointed object. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#* Shakespeare
#*: Pins, wooden '''pricks''', nails, sprigs of rosemary.
#* Bible, Acts ix. 5
#*: It is hard for thee to kick against the '''pricks'''.
# The experience or feeling of being pierced or punctured by a small, sharp object. {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
#: ''I felt a sharp '''prick''' as the nurse took a sample of blood.''
#* A. Tucker
#*: the '''pricks''' of conscience
# {{context|slang|vulgar|lang=en}} The [[penis]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|slang|pejorative|lang=en}} Someone (especially a man or boy) who is unpleasant, rude or annoying. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|now|historical|lang=en}} A small roll of yarn or tobacco. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# The [[footprint]] of a [[hare]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A point or mark on the [[dial]], noting the hour.
#* Shakespeare
#*: the '''prick''' of noon
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} The point on a [[target]] at which an [[archer]] aims; the [[mark]]; the [[pin]].
#* Spenser
#*: they that shooten nearest the '''prick'''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|small pointed object}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|bior|m}}, {{t|ga|dealg|f}}, {{t+|ga|tairne|m}}, {{t|ga|dealg|f}}, {{t|ga|goineog|f}}, {{t+|ga|tairne|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kātara}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|farpa|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|stob|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|astilla|f}}, {{t+|es|pincho|m}}, {{t+|es|aguijón|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|feeling of being pierced or punctured}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|խայթոց}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|prik|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Stich|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|tusukan}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|убод|m|tr=úbod}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|ukłucie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|picada|f}}, {{t+|pt|pontada|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уко́л|m}}, {{t+|ru|проко́л|m}} {{qualifier|puncture}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|punzada|f}}, {{t+|es|piquete|m}}, {{t|es|pinchazo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(slang) a penis}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|peester}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|زُبّ|m}}, {{t|ar|زُبْر|m}}, {{t|ar|أَيْر|m}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ҡутаҡ}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|хуй|m|tr=xuj}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|кур|m|tr=kur}}, {{t|bg|хуй|m|tr=huj}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|雞巴|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|鸡巴|tr=jība|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|屌|tr=diǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|euphemism}} {{t+|cmn|鳥|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|鸟|tr=diǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|小雞雞|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|小鸡鸡|tr=xiǎojījī|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|小弟弟|tr=xiǎodìdì|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t|nan|lān-hut|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|lofas|m}}, {{t+|cs|čurák}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|prik|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lul}}, {{t|nl|toeter}}, {{t+|nl|slurf}}, {{t+|nl|pik|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kaco}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kyrpä}}, {{t+|fi|mulkku}}, {{t+|fi|kulli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bite|f}}, {{t+|fr|paf|m}}, {{t+|fr|pine|f}}, {{t+|fr|queue|f}} (slang), {{t+|fr|vit|m}}, {{t+|fr|zob|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pimmel|m}}, {{t+|de|Schwanz|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πούτσα}} (pútsa) {{g|f}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|usuk}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kontol}}, {{t|id|peler}}, {{t+|id|burung}} {{qualifier|euphemistic}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|slat}}, {{t+|ga|tairne|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cazzo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ちんこ|tr=chinko}}, {{t+|ja|ちんぽ|tr=chinpo}}, {{t|ja|ちんちん|tr=chinchin}}, {{qualifier|of children}} {{t|ja|おちんちん|tr=o-chinchin}}, {{t|ja|ぽこちん|tr=pokochin}}, {{t|ja|まら|tr=mara}}, {{t|ja|ちんぽこ|tr=chinpoko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|bybis}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|стап|m|tr=stáp}}, {{t|mk|мандало|n|tr=mándalo}}, {{t|mk|кур|m|tr=kur}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|butuh}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|acho'}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|cillu}}, {{t|se|návli}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|pikk}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|chuj}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pica|f}} (lit. prick), {{t+|pt|pau|m}} (lit. wood)
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pula}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хуй|m}}, {{t+|ru|хер|m}}, {{qualifier|mild}} {{t+|ru|член|m}}, {{qualifier|of children}} {{t+|ru|писю́н|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|bod}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|pimpek|m}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|kokot}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|kurac}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reata|f}}, {{qualifier|Mexico, California}} {{t+|es|macana|f}}, {{qualifier|Spain}}, {{t+|es|pichula|f}}, {{t+|es|picha|f}}, {{t+|es|pija|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kuk}}, {{t+|sv|pitt}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ควย}} (khuay)
* Udmurt: {{t|udm|кульы|tr=kul'y}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|хуй|m|tr=xuj}}, {{qualifier|of children}} {{t|uk|пісюн|m|tr=pisjún}}, {{t|uk|прутень|m|tr=prúten'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an annoying person}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|傻屌|tr=sha3-diao3|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|slang, vulgar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lul}}, {{t+|nl|pestkop}}, {{t+|nl|onnozelaar}}, {{t+|nl|oen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mulkku}}
* French: {{t|fr|petit con|m}}, {{t+|fr|emmerdeur|m}}, {{t+|fr|pédé|m}}, {{t+|fr|connard|m}}, {{t+|fr|andouille|f}}, {{t+|fr|enfoiré|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Arschloch|n}} {{qualifier|asshole}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|bajingan}}, {{t+|id|bedebah}}, {{t+|id|brengsek}}, {{t+|id|keparat}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arrogante|m|f}}, {{t+|pt|ignorante|m|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|приду́рок|m}}, {{t+|ru|недоу́мок}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|pizdek|m}}, {{t+|sh|pizdun|m}}, {{t+|sh|pizdun|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|gilipollas|m}} {{qualifier|Spain}}, {{t|es|conchasumadre|m|f}} {{qualifier|South America}}, {{t+|es|culeado|m}} {{qualifier|South America}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pricker]]
* [[prickle]]
* [[prickly]]
* [[pricktease]]
* [[prickteaser]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|prikken||lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|prician}}, {{m|ang|priccan||to prick}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*prikōną}}, {{m|gem-pro|*prikjaną||to pierce, prick}}, of uncertain origin; perhaps from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*breyǵ-||to scrape, scratch, rub, prickle, chap}}. Cognate with dialectal English {{term|pritch|lang=en}}, Dutch {{term|prikken||to prick, sting|lang=nl}}, Middle High German {{term|pfrecken||to prick|lang=gmh}}, Swedish {{term|pricka||to dot, prick|lang=sv}}, and possibly to Lithuanian {{m|lt|įbrėžti||to scrape, scratch, carve, inscribe, strike}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[pierce]] or [[puncture]] slightly. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
#: ''John hardly felt the needle '''prick''' his arm when the adept nurse drew blood.''
## {{context|[[farriery]]|lang=en}} To drive a [[nail]] into (a horse's foot), so as to cause [[lameness]].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To form by piercing or puncturing.
#: ''to '''prick''' holes in paper''
#: ''to '''prick''' a pattern for embroidery''
#: ''to '''prick''' the notes of a musical composition''
#: {{rfquotek|Cowper}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To mark or denote by a puncture; to designate by pricking; to choose; to mark.
#* Francis Bacon
#*: Some who are '''pricked''' for sheriffs.
#* Sir Walter Scott
#*: Let the soldiers for duty be carefully '''pricked''' off.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Those many, then, shall die: their names are '''pricked'''.
# {{context|transitive|chiefly|nautical|lang=en}} To mark the surface of (something) with pricks or [[dots]]; especially, to trace a ship’s course on (a chart). {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# {{context|nautical|obsolete|lang=en}} To run a middle seam through the cloth of a sail. (The Universal Dictionary of the English Language, 1896)
# To fix by the point; to attach or hang by puncturing.
#: ''to '''prick''' a knife into a board''
#* Sandys:
#*: The cooks '''prick''' it [a slice] on a prong of iron.
#: {{rfquotek|Isaac Newton}}
# {{context|intransitive|dated|lang=en}} To be punctured; to suffer or feel a sharp pain, as by puncture.
#: ''A sore finger '''pricks'''.''
#* '''17th century''' (probably '''1606'''), {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Macbeth}}'', Act IV, scene 1:
#*: By the '''pricking''' of my thumbs, / Something wicked this way comes.
# To make sharp; to erect into a point; to raise, as something pointed; said especially of the ears of an animal, such as a horse or dog; and usually followed by ''up''.
#* Dryden
#*: The courser {{...}} '''pricks up''' his ears.
# {{context|[[horticulture]]|lang=en}} ''Usually in the form'' '''prick out''': to [[plant]] (seeds or seedlings) in holes made in soil at regular [[interval]]s.
#* {{quote-news|author=Carol Klein|authorlink=Carol Klein|title=Coming up primroses|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/gardening/gardenprojects/3302198/Coming-up-primroses.html|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20130215071207/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/gardening/gardenprojects/3302198/Coming-up-primroses.html|archivedate=15 February 2013|work={{w|The Daily Telegraph}} (Gardening)|date=6 July 2002|passage=Seed should be sown thinly and evenly to enable seedlings to be '''pricked''' out without disturbing those that have just emerged. If there is space, seedlings should be '''pricked''' out individually, either into small pots or module trays.}}
#* {{quote-news|author=Valerie Bourne|title=Self-seeding|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/gardening/3336426/Self-seeding.html|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20131124090932/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/gardening/3336426/Self-seeding.html|archivedate=24 November 2013|work=The Daily Telegraph (Gardening)|date=22 October 2005|passage=All three germinate well in pots and can be '''pricked''' out and potted on with no problems. {{...}} Grass seeds can be collected as the heads begin to break up. Sow them in late spring, '''prick''' out small bundles of seedlings into 7.5cm (3in) pots and transplant them in late May.}}
#* {{quote-news|author=Helen Yemm|title=Hollyhock and elder care, evil weevils|work=The Daily Telegraph (Gardening)|date=12 September 2015|page=7|passage=Geoff might prefer to "take control": to collect seed and sow it next spring, '''pricking''' out a few of the best seedlings, growing them on in pots next summer before planting them out in the autumn.}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[incite]], [[stimulate]], [[goad]]. {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Two Gentlemen of Verona}}'', ii. 7.
#*: ''My duty '''pricks''' me on to utter that.''
# {{context|intransitive|archaic|lang=en}} To urge one's [[horse]] on; to [[ride]] quickly. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#: {{rfquotek|Milton}}
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}}'', III.1:
#*: At last, as through an open plaine they yode, / They spide a knight that towards them '''pricked''' fayre {{...}}.
#* '''1881''', [[s:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''[[s:Virginibus Puerisque|Virginibus Puerisque]]'':
#*: Indeed, it is a memorable subject for consideration, with what unconcern and gaiety mankind '''pricks on''' along the Valley of the Shadow of Death. 
# To affect with sharp pain; to sting, as with remorse.
#* Bible, Acts ii. 37
#*: Now when they heard this, they were '''pricked''' in their heart.
#* Tennyson
#*: I was '''pricked''' with some reproof.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To make [[acidic]] or [[pungent]].
#: {{rfquotek|Hudibras}}
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To become [[sharp]] or [[acid]]; to turn [[sour]], as [[wine]].
# To [[aim]] at a [[point]] or [[mark]].
#: {{rfquotek|Hawkins}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} ''Usually as'' '''prick up''': to [[dress]]; to [[prink]].

{{Webster 1913}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|pierce}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|prik}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|stechen}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|stob}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pinchar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|urge, goad}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-en prick.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Adverb===
{{head|sv|adverb}}

# [[exactly]], [[sharp]], on the spot
#: ''vi träffas '''prick''' klockan sju''
#:: let's meet at seven o'clock sharp
#: ''att skjuta '''prick'''''
#:: to shoot for a target

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# a [[dot]], small [[spot]]
#: ''Sista bokstaven i det svenska alfabetet är "ö", det vill säga ett "o" med två '''prickar''' över.''
#:: The last letter in the Swedish alphabet is "ö", that is, an "o" with two dots over it.
# a [[remark]], a [[stain]] (in a record of good behaviour)
#: ''Han har haft körkort i 40 år och kört utan '''prickar'''''
#:: He's had a driver's license for 40 years and received no tickets
# a [[guy]], person; especially about a particularly nice or funny one
#: ''Det var en riktigt trevlig '''prick''', det där.''
#:: That was a really nice guy, that.

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

====Usage notes====
In the sense of "person", it is mainly used in conjunction with the adjectives ''[[rolig]]'' (''funny'') or ''[[trevlig]]'' (''nice'').

====Derived terms====
* [[mitt i prick]] - ''right on the spot''

====Related terms====
{|
|- valign=top
|
* [[pricka]]
* [[prickare]]
* [[prickbelastning]]
* [[prickblad]]
* [[prickfri]]
* [[prickig]]
* [[prickmönster]]
|
* [[prickning]]
* [[pricksjuka]]
* [[prickskjuta]]
* [[prickskytt]]
* [[prickskytte]]
* [[pricksäker]]
* [[ruskprick]]
|}

===References===
* {{R:SAOL}}

[[an:prick]]
[[cs:prick]]
[[cy:prick]]
[[da:prick]]
[[et:prick]]
[[el:prick]]
[[es:prick]]
[[eo:prick]]
[[eu:prick]]
[[fr:prick]]
[[ko:prick]]
[[hy:prick]]
[[io:prick]]
[[id:prick]]
[[it:prick]]
[[kn:prick]]
[[ka:prick]]
[[kk:prick]]
[[ku:prick]]
[[hu:prick]]
[[mg:prick]]
[[ml:prick]]
[[my:prick]]
[[pl:prick]]
[[ru:prick]]
[[sm:prick]]
[[fi:prick]]
[[sv:prick]]
[[tl:prick]]
[[ta:prick]]
[[te:prick]]
[[chr:prick]]
[[tr:prick]]
[[vi:prick]]
[[zh:prick]]