==English==

===Etymology===
The price of tea in China was an important topic in [[England]] during and around the 19th century. It was often mentioned in the [[British]] [[House of Commons]].

Meaning, originally A LOT of England's money and finance WAS tied up in the price of tea - at the unloading docks in London each year.   "Tea races" were highly looked at events covering months of travel and high drama from China around Cape Horn to England to get the first cargo back to London!    It affected what everybody drunk and how much everybody bought and paid for their meals and drinks.   Very, very important - just like today, the price of oil IS a daily report on the news and in the stock markets.   

But, in China, at the China docks?  A little bit less important, but relevant.  People, companies, industries made their yearly profits - and thus the yearly wages and salaries and earnings for everybody from the owner to the stockholders to the lowest laborer - on how much the difference in price of tea was between the China docks and the London sales rooms.   A late ship, a lost ship or spoiled tea product?  Disaster.   A bad market in China or a bad growing year or famine or a crop failure over there?   

But, as history progressed, the question became oratorical "Why are you asking about something important you cannot control?"  

Then, sarcastic (or iconic) "Why are you asking about something "I" cannot control?  
.. then into today's common usage "Why are you asking about something I don't care about at all?"

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[price]] [[of]] [[tea]] [[in]] [[China]]|-}}

# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} Something that is [[irrelevant]] or [[unimportant]], usually used to [[emphasize]] the lack of relationship of a [[non sequitur]].
#* {{quote-book
|year=1992
|author=Frederic S. Mishkin
|title=The economics of money, banking, and financial markets
|page=449
|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=75eZAAAAIAAJ&q=%22price+of+tea+in+china%22
|isbn=0673521419
|passage=If the Fed can accurately and quickly measure the '''price of tea in China''' and can completely control its price, what good will it do? The Fed cannot use the '''price of tea in China''' to affect unemployment or the price level in the United States.}}
# {{context|literally|lang=en}} The [[wholesale]] or [[retail]] [[price]] of [[tea]] in the [[country]] of [[China]].
#* {{quote-book
|year=1800
|author=John Taylor
|title=Letters on India, Political, commercial and military
|page=159
|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=tMs_AAAAcAAJ&pg=PA159&dq=%22price+of+tea+in+china%22
|passage=The Company should enjoy the exclusive right to the trade with China in teas, raw silk, ... and that particularly in the article of tea, or the difference between the '''price of tea in China''', and that paid for the same article at the Company's sales in London.}}
#* {{quote-book
|year=1846
|author=Great Britain. Parliament. House of Commons
|title=Parliamentary papers, House of Commons and Command, Volume 44
|page=259a6
|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=FnwSAAAAYAAJ&pg=PT257&dq=%22price+of+tea+in+china%22
|passage=...the consumption of so much additional Tea; again, this increase of 21 millions of Tea to our imports, would require an additional export of British manufactures in exchange ; taking, therefore, the average '''price of Tea in China''' at 24 taels per picul, the result would be, 157,500 piculs, at 24 taels, is 3,780,000 L., or an increase of 1,150,250 L. of exports to China
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[what does that have to do with the price of tea in China]]?

====Translations====
{{trans-top|irrelevant to the topic at hand}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מה ענין שמיטה אצל הר סיני}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Tea]]