==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|la|prīmārius||of the first (rank); chief, principal; excellent}}, from {{m|la|prīmus}} (first; whence the {{etyl|en|-}} adjective {{m|en|prime}}) + {{m|la|-ārius}} (whence the {{etyl|en|-}} suffix {{m|en|-ary}}); compare the {{cog|fr|primaire}}, {{m|fr|primer}}, and {{m|fr|premier}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹaɪməɹi/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|prīʹmĕr-ē}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹaɪˌmɛɹi/}} ''or'' {{enPR|prīʹmə-rē}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹaɪməɹi/}}
* {{a|NZ}} {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹɒeməɹi/|/ˈpɹɒemɹi/}}
* {{audio|en|En-us-primary.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{enum||secondary|Latinate [[Appendix:English ordinal numbers|ordinals]]|lang=en}}
{{en-adj}}

# [[first]] or [[earliest]] in a group or series.
#: ''Children attend '''primary''' school, and teenagers attend secondary school.''
#* Bishop Pearson
#*: the church of Christ, in its '''primary''' institution
#* John Locke
#*: These I call original, or '''primary''', qualities of body.
# [[main]]; [[principal]]; [[chief]]; placed ahead of others.
#: ''Preferred stock has '''primary''' claim on dividends, ahead of common stock.''
# {{lb|en|geology}} Earliest formed; [[fundamental]].
# {{lb|en|chemistry}} Illustrating, possessing, or characterized by, some quality or property in the first degree; having undergone the first stage of substitution or replacement.
# {{lb|en|medicine}} Relating to the place where a disorder or disease started to occur.
# {{lb|en|medicine}} Relating to day-to-day care provided by health professionals such as nurses, general practitioners, dentists etc.

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|primarily}}
* {{l|en|primary care}}
* {{l|en|primary color}}, {{l|en|primary colour}}
* {{l|en|primary producer}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|primary research}}
* {{l|en|primary school}}
* {{l|en|primary source}}
{{der-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|first in a group or series}}
* Assamese: {{t|as|আগনি}}, {{t|as|মৌলিক}}, {{t|as|প্ৰাথমিক}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|primari|m}}, {{t+|ca|primària|f}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|kinaunhan}}, {{t|ceb|kinaunahan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ensimmäinen}}, {{t+|fi|perus-}}, {{t|fi|ensi-}}, {{t+|fi|ala-}}
* French: {{t+|fr|primaire|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|პირველადი}}, {{t|ka|საწყისი}}, {{t|ka|უადრესი}}, {{t|ka|თავდაპირველი}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρωτογενής|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|πρωτοβάθμιος|sc=Grek}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|primara}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|یه‌که‌م|tr=yekem}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|primaithe}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|primário|m}}, {{t+|pt|primária|f}}, {{t|pt|primários|m-p}}, {{t|pt|primárias|f-p}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|primar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|перви́чный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|primario}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pangunahin}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which is placed ahead of others}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَوَّلِيّ}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|primari|m}}, {{t+|ca|primària|f}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|nauna}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|第一|tr=dìyī de|alt=第一的|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|最初|tr=zuìchū|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|primární}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|primær}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voornaamste}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ensisijainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prioritaire|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|პირველადი|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|უპირატესი}}, {{t|ka|ძირითადი}}, {{t|ka|უმთავრესი}}, {{t|ka|მთავარი}}
* German: {{t+|de|primär}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|első}}, {{t+|hu|elsődleges}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|pokok}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|primario}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|最初|tr=さいしょの, saisho no|alt=最初の|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|본래|alt=본래의}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|primær}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|primær}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|primário}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|перви́чный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|primario}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|primär}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Telugu: {{t-check|te|ప్రాథమిక}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|first}}
* {{l|en|primus inter pares}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|primaries}}

# A [[primary election]]; a preliminary election to select a political candidate of a political party.
# The first year of [[grade school]].
# A [[base]] or [[fundamental]] component; something that is [[irreducible]].
# The most massive component of a gravitationally bound system, such as a planet in relation to its satellites.
# A [[primary school]].
#* '''2001''', David Woods, Martyn Cribb, ''Effective LEAs and school improvement''
#*: Excellence in Cities offers a further development of this approach, whereby secondary schools operate with small clusters of '''primaries''' as mini-EAZs.
# {{lb|en|ornithology}} Any [[flight feather]] attached to the [[manus]] (hand) of a bird.
# A [[primary colour]].
#* '''2003''', Julie A Jacko, Andrew Sears, ''The human-computer interaction handbook''
#*: By adding and subtracting the three '''primaries''', cyan, yellow, and magenta are produced. These are called subtractive primaries.
# {{lb|en|medicine}} Primary [[site]] of [[disease]]; [[original]] [[location]] or [[source]] of the disease.
#: {{ux|en|unknown '''primary'''}}
#: {{ux|en|most common '''primaries'''}}
# {{lb|en|electronics}} A directly driven inductive coil, as in a [[transformer]] or [[induction motor]] that is magnetically coupled to a [[secondary]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|preliminary election}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|primárky|f-p}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|esivaalit}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vorwahl|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|előválasztás}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|نخستین}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|primarias|f-p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|first year of grade school}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|primària|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ensimmäinen luokka}}, {{t|fi|ekaluokka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ابتدایی}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|primaria|f}}, {{t+|es|primero|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|base or fundamental component}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|primari|m}}, {{t+|ca|bàsic|m}}, {{t+|ca|fonamental|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|perusta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|básico}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ornithology: flight feather}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|siipisulka}}
* German: {{t|de|Handschwinge|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kira}}, {{t|mi|hikurangi}}, {{t|mi|hikutau}}, {{t|mi|matakīrea}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|prìomh ite sgèith|f}}, {{t|gd|ite gàirdeanach|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Telugu: {{t-check|te|ప్రాథమికం}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

* {{pedialite}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|primaries|primarying|primaried}}

# {{lb|en|US|transitive}} To knock out an incumbent in the [[primary election]], typically used referring to a non-incumbent challenger.
# {{lb|en|US|intransitive}} To take part in a [[primary election]].
# {{lb|en|US|politics}} To challenge an incumbent sitting politician for their political party's endorsement to run for re-election, through running a challenger campaign in a primary election

===Further reading===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:en:One]]