==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|produco||I lead forth or forward, bring forward, draw or stretch out, extend, prolong, conduct, etc., bring forth, bear, etc.|lang=la}}, from {{term|pro||forth, forward|lang=la}} + {{term|duco||I lead, bring|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} prədyo͞os', {{IPA|/pɹəˈdjuːs/|/pɹəˈd͡ʒuːs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} prədo͞os', {{IPA|/pɹəˈdus/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-produce-verb.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|produc}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[yield]], [[make]] or [[manufacture]]; to [[generate]].
#* Macaulay
#*: the greatest jurist his country had '''produced'''
#* '''1856''', [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''[[w:The History of England from the Accession of James the Second|The History of England from the Accession of James the Second]]'', Volume 3, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=-QYMAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA510&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U9buT5-IMISRiQfNpfinDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 510],
#*: At Rome the news from Ireland '''produced''' a sensation of a very different kind.
#* '''1999''', Steven O. Shattuck, ''Australian Ants: Their Biology and Identification'', Volume 3, CSIRO Publishing, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=9car7Xz7yrEC&pg=PT87&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 72],
#*: Many of these caterpillars have special glands that '''produce''' secretions which are very attractive to these ants.
#* '''2000''', Jane McGary, ''Environment: Australia and New Zealand'', Cheris Kramarae, Dale Spender, ''Routledge International Encyclopedia of Women: Education: Health to Hypertension'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=N0ths5DOgGgC&pg=PA567&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 567],
#*: For example, Mary Lou Morris, past president of the Environment Institute of Australia, has been her country′s delegate to a number of global environmental conferences and helped to '''produce''' the Australian National Heritage Charter.
#* '''2006''', Office of the United States Trade Representative, ''National Trade Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers: 2006'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=EAauAVD8_TQC&pg=PA29&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 29],
#*: The Agreement criminalizes end-user piracy and requires Australia to authorize the seizure, forfeiture, and destruction of counterfeit and pirated goods and the equipment used to '''produce''' them.
#* '''2006''' November 21, Kenya National Assembly, ''Kenya National Assembly Official Record (Hansard): Parliamentary Debates'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=3iZm0sqteCkC&pg=PT30&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 3805],
#*: We discovered that they '''produce''' more than 2,000 megawatts from wind energy.
#* '''2008''', ''Primary Australian History: Book F'', R.I.C. Publications, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=P-1sUoCPtZ0C&pg=PA43&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 43],
#*: He had wanted to '''produce''' a wheat that was more suited to Australian conditions and was drought- and disease-resistant.
#* '''2010''', Carlos Laurenço, Hermine K. Wöhri, ''Measuring Dimuons '''Produced''' in Proton-Nucleus Collisions in the NA60 Experiment at the SPS'', Helmut Satz, Sourav Sarkar, Bikash Sinha (editors) , ''The Physics of the Quark-Gluon Plasma: Introductory Lectures'', Springer, Lecture Notes in Physics 785, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=1WPV0NSenZ4C&pg=PA280&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U9buT5-IMISRiQfNpfinDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 280],
#*: Besides, some of the rejected dimuons were '''produced''' in collisions downstream of the target region (in the beam dump or in the hadron absorber, for instance).
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To make (a thing) available to a person, an authority, etc.; to provide for inspection.
#* '''1810''', ''Cobbett's complete collection of state trials and proceedings: volume 8''
#*: It was necessary for the prisoner to '''produce''' a witness to prove his innocency.
#* '''2006''', Tom Smart, Lee Benson, ''In Plain Sight: The Startling Truth Behind the Elizabeth Smart Investigation'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=P6efAHQIQukC&pg=PA262&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+passport+OR+identification+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M-PuT9ivHYisiAfUirGtDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20passport%20OR%20identification%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 262],
#*: LDS security '''produced''' identification information, photographs, and videotape of an antiMormon preacher who they said called himself Emmanuel and was often seen around Temple Square, especially at conference time.
#* '''2007''', Transit Cooperative Research Program  ''TRCP Report 86: Public Transportation Passenger Security Inspections: A Guide for Policy Decision Makers'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=QixN_vHxQE8C&pg=PA22&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+passport+OR+identification+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M-PuT9ivHYisiAfUirGtDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20passport%20OR%20identification%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 22],
#*: The plaintiff alleges that he was unlawfully detained at the airport by state troopers and threatened with arrest unless he '''produced''' identification and his travel documents.
# {{context|transitive|media|lang=en}} To sponsor and present (a motion picture, etc) to an audience or to the public.
#* '''1982''' January 30, ''Imported Producers Spread Early Sound to Global Markets'', ''[[w:Billboard (magazine)|Billboard]]'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ECUEAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA58&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=t4HuT5vTJYqziQfQ_KT9DA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page M-16],
#*: David Tickle flew in to Melbourne to '''produce''' the quad-platinum (in Australia) LP “True Colors” and the triple gold single “I Got You”— both of which shot the band to international prominence.
#* '''2001''', Donald Bogle, ''Toms, Coons, Mulattoes, Mammies, and Bucks: An Interpretive History of Blacks in American Films'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=Sz7K1c9QSoMC&pg=PA56&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+sound+OR+film+OR+movie+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=6-juT9-1JIHAiQeY_OicDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20sound%20OR%20film%20OR%20movie%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 56],
#*: In 1940, he co-wrote the script for ''Broken Strings'', an independently '''produced''' film in which he starred as a concert violinist.
#* '''2011''', Bob Sehlinger, Menasha Ridge, Len Testa, ''The Unofficial Guide Walt Disney World 2012'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=wvo0aCQrK0wC&pg=PA570&dq=%22produced%22|%22producing%22+sound+OR+film+OR+movie+-intitle:%22produced|producing%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=6-juT9-1JIHAiQeY_OicDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produced%22|%22producing%22%20sound%20OR%20film%20OR%20movie%20-intitle%3A%22produced|producing%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 570],
#*: This beautifully '''produced''' film was introduced in 2003.
# {{context|mathematics|lang=en}} To [[extend]] an [[area]], or [[lengthen]] a [[line]].
#: ''to '''produce''' a side of a triangle''
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To draw out; to [[extend]]; to [[lengthen]] or [[prolong]].
#: ''to '''produce''' a man's life to threescore''
#: {{rfquotek|Sir Thomas Browne}}

====Related terms====
* [[producer]]
* [[product]]
* [[production]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make or manufacture}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أنتج|tr='ántaja|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|制造|tr=zhìzào|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|生產|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|生产|tr=shēngchǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|produkovat}}, {{t+|cs|vyrábět}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|produceren}}, {{t+|nl|maken}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|produkti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuottaa}}, {{t+|fi|valmistaa}}, {{t+|fi|tehdä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produire}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|producir}}, {{t+|gl|xerar}}
* German: {{t+|de|produzieren}}, {{t+|de|herstellen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παράγω}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לייצר|tr=l'yatzer|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyárt}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|framleiða}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t|is|pródúsa}}, {{qualifier|dated}} {{t|is|pródúsera}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|producer}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|produrre}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|生産|tr=せいさんする, seisan-surú|alt=生産する|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ផលិត|tr=phor lit|sc=Khmr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|만들다|sc=Kore}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ražot}}, {{t|lv|taisīt}}, {{t|lv|izstrādāt}}, {{t|lv|izgatavot}}, {{t|lv|pagatavot}}, {{t|lv|producēt}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|gaminti}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|zbasu}}, {{t|jbo|cupra}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|उतप।दन}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|tooa|alt=utooa}}, {{t|zdj|toa|alt=utoa}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|تولید|tr=toulid|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wytwarzać}}, {{t+|pl|produkować}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produzir}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|produce}}, {{t+|ro|face}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|производить|impf|tr=proizvodít’|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|произвести|pf|tr=proizvestí|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|proìzvesti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|producir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|producera}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|ఉత్పత్తి చేయు|tr=utpatti chaeyu}}, {{t|te|తయారు చేయు|tr=tayaaru chaeyu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|üretmek}}
* Zazaki: {{t|zza|pêrotene}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make available to}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|предоставям}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorleggen}}, {{t|nl|beschikbaar stellen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|esittää}}
* German: {{t+|de|vorlegen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bemutat}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|útvega}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fornire}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|jarco}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to sponsor and present (a motion picture, etc)}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|produceren}}, {{t+|nl|maken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuottaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|produzieren}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|framleiða}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|produrre}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|ده‌رهێنان}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|制作|tr=zhìzuò|sc=Hani}} {{t|cmn|监制|tr=jiānzhì|sc=Hani}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|producírati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|realizar}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|నిర్మించు|tr=nirminchu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Ido: {{t-check|io|produktar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|prŏd'yo͞os}}, {{IPA|/ˈpɹɒdjuːs/|/ˈpɹɒd͡ʒuːs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈpɹoʊ.dus/|/ˈpɹɑ.dus/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-produce-noun.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Items produced.
# Amount produced.
# Harvested agricultural goods collectively, especially vegetables and fruit, but possibly including eggs, dairy products and meat; the saleable food products of farms.
#* '''1852''', F. Lancelott, ''Australia As It Is: Its Settlements, Farms and Gold Fields'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=yYR0R8ts3joC&pg=PA151&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=3KXuT4aiLMqYiAe-hsmFDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 151],
#*: All fruits, vegetables, and dairy and poultry-yard '''produce''' are, in the Australian capitals, dear, and of very easy sale.
#* '''1861''', William Westgarth, ''Australia: Its Rise, Progress, and Present Condition'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ORAOAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA54&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lrnuT_jQIY2tiQfToI2JDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 54],
#*: Taking a retrospect, then, of fourteen years preceding 1860, and making two periods of seven years each, the value of the exports of the '''produce''' or manufactures of this country to Australia has been, for the annual average of the first seven years, 1846-52, 2½ millions sterling; while for the second period, 1856-59, the annual average has been 11 millions.
#* '''1999''', Bruce Brown, Malcolm McKinnon, ''New Zealand in World Affairs, 1972-1990'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=-pRHIw8R0-kC&pg=PA291&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=3KXuT4aiLMqYiAe-hsmFDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 291],
#*: While it is true that New Zealand′s economic stake in the region [of Oceania] remained relatively small when compared with the major markets for New Zealand '''produce''' in Australia, Asia, North America and Europe, it nevertheless remained the region through which trade must pass on its way to these larger markets.
#* '''2008''', Peter Newman, Isabella Jennings, ''Cities As Sustainable Ecosystems: Principles and Practices'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=DpgOH9QjFY4C&pg=PA230&dq=%22produce%22+australia+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lrnuT_jQIY2tiQfToI2JDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22produce%22%20australia%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 230],
#*: A farm supervisor is employed to coordinate the planting and harvesting of '''produce''' by volunteers.
# [[offspring|Offspring]].
# {{context|Australia|lang=en}} Livestock and pet food supplies.

====Usage notes====
Frequently used in the collocation {{m|en||produce aisle}}, since c. 1960, specifically in the sense “fruits and vegetables”.<ref>[http://english.stackexchange.com/questions/119203/why-do-you-call-it-the-produce-aisle Why do you call it “the produce aisle”?]</ref>

====Hypernyms====
* {{sense|items produced}} [[output]], [[product]]s

====Translations====
{{trans-top|items produced}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|produkt|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuotanto}}, {{t+|fi|tuote|p|alt=tuotteet}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto}}
* Latin: {{t|la|fructus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|produkts|m}}, {{t|lv|produkcija|f}}, {{t|lv|ražojumi|m-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|selcupra}}, {{t|jbo|selzbasu}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produção|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|toradh|m}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|ఉత్పత్తి|tr=utpatti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|amount produced}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuotanto}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|toradh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|harvested agricultural goods collectively}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waar|f}}, {{t+|nl|waren|f-p}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuotteet|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produits|m-p}}
* German: {{t|de|Obst und Gemüse}}, {{t+|de|Ertrag|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|meas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotti|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|stagi}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|mavuna|c6}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|produção|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|toradh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|frutas y verduras}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|offspring}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|producto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

===Statistics===
* {{rank|support|bit|Indian|825|produce|drawn|field|street}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[crouped#English|crouped]]

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==Interlingua==

===Verb===
{{head|ia|verb form}}

# {{ia-form of|produc|e}}

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb forms}}

# ''third-person singular indicative present of [[produrre]]''

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|prōdūce}}

# {{inflection of|prōdūcō||2|s|pres|actv|impr|lang=la}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} {{m|la|prōdūcere}}, present active infinitive of {{m|la|prōdūcō}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[proˈdu.tʃe]|lang=ro}}

===Verb===
{{ro-verb|conj=3}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=ro}} to [[#English|produce]]

====Conjugation====
{{ro-conj-duce|pro}}

====Derived terms====
* [[produs]]

----

==Spanish==

===Verb===
{{es-verb-form}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=ir|mood=imperative|sense=affirmative|pers=2|formal=no|number=singular|producir}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ir|mood=indicative|tense=present|pers=2|formal=yes|number=singular|producir}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ir|mood=indicative|tense=present|pers=3|number=singular|producir}}

[[ar:produce]]
[[az:produce]]
[[zh-min-nan:produce]]
[[cs:produce]]
[[cy:produce]]
[[de:produce]]
[[et:produce]]
[[el:produce]]
[[es:produce]]
[[eo:produce]]
[[eu:produce]]
[[fa:produce]]
[[fr:produce]]
[[ko:produce]]
[[hy:produce]]
[[io:produce]]
[[id:produce]]
[[it:produce]]
[[kn:produce]]
[[kk:produce]]
[[sw:produce]]
[[ku:produce]]
[[li:produce]]
[[jbo:produce]]
[[hu:produce]]
[[mg:produce]]
[[ml:produce]]
[[my:produce]]
[[nl:produce]]
[[ja:produce]]
[[pl:produce]]
[[ro:produce]]
[[ru:produce]]
[[sm:produce]]
[[simple:produce]]
[[fi:produce]]
[[sv:produce]]
[[ta:produce]]
[[te:produce]]
[[th:produce]]
[[chr:produce]]
[[tr:produce]]
[[vi:produce]]
[[zh:produce]]