==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|prŏdʹ-ŭkt}}, {{IPA|/ˈprɒdˌʌkt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"prQd%Vkt/}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|[ˈpɹɒd.ˌʌkt]}}, {{SAMPA|["pr\Qd.%Vkt]}}
** {{a|US}} {{IPA|[ˈpɹɑd.ˌʌkt]}}, {{SAMPA|["pr\Ad.%Vkt]}}
**: {{audio|en-us-product.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[commodity]] offered for sale.
#: ''That store offers a variety of '''products'''.''
# The amount of an artifact that has been created by someone or some process.
#: ''They improve their '''product''' every year; they export most of their agricultural production.''
# A consequence of someone's efforts or of a particular set of circumstances.
#: ''Skill is the '''product''' of hours of practice; His reaction was the '''product''' of hunger and fatigue.''
# {{chemistry}} A chemical substance formed as a result of a chemical reaction.
#: ''This is a '''product''' of lime and nitric acid.''
# {{math}} A quantity obtained by multiplication.
#: ''The '''product''' of 2 and 3 is 6.''
# Any tangible output or service that is a result of a process and that is intended for delivery to a customer or end user.
# The outcome or 'thingness' of an activity, especially in contrast to a [[process]] by which it was created or altered.
#: ''This '''product''' of last month's quality standards committee is quite good, even though the process was flawed.''
# A hair product, a hair care product – a preparation used to style hair and offered for sale.
#:''Dude, you use more '''product''' on your hair than any other guy I know!''
# {{context|US|slang}} Illegal drugs, especially cocaine, when viewed as a commodity.
#:''I got some '''product''' here – you buying?''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|items for sale}} [[merchandise]], [[wares]], [[goods]]
* {{sense|amount created by a process}} [[production]], [[output]]

====Derived terms====
* [[by-product]]
* [[gross domestic product]], [[gross national product]]
* [[product placement]]
* [[product recall]]

====Related terms====
* [[produce]]
* [[producer]]
* [[production]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|commodity for sale}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ապրանք|tr=aprank’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|стока|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuote}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προϊόν|n|tr=proion}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|商品|tr=shōhin}}, {{t+|ja|製品|tr=seihin}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|produkt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|produs|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|продукт|m|tr=prodúkt}}, {{t+|ru|товар|m|tr=továr}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|produkt|c}}, {{t+|sv|vara|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|ఉత్పత్తి|tr=utpatti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|amount created by a process}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|производство|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuotanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|生成物|tr=seiseibutsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|produkcja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produto|m}}, {{t+|pt|produção|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|produs|n}}, {{t|ro|producţie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|продукция|f|tr=prodúkcija}}, {{t|ru|выработка|f|tr=výrabotka}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|produkt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|consequence of efforts}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արգասիք|tr=argasik’}},  {{t|hy|արդյունք|tr=ardyunk’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|резултат|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuote}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|frutto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|結果|tr=kekka}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wynik|m}}, {{t+|pl|efekt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|produs|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|результат|m|tr=rezul’tát}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|resultat|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|result of chemical reaction}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արգասիք|tr=argasik’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|следствие|n}}, {{t+|bg|продукт|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|reaktiotuote}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}, {{t|de|Reaktionsprodukt|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προϊόν|n|tr=proion}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|生成物|tr=seiseibutsu}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|produkt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|produs|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|продукт|m|tr=prodúkt}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|produkt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|multiplication result}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حاصل الضرب}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|произведение|n}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|součin|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|produto|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tulo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|積|tr=seki}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|حاصل ضرب|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|iloczyn|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|produs|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|произведение|n|tr=proizvedénije}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|producto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|produkt|c}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|حاصل ضرب|xs=Urdu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|any tangible output}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Produkt|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προϊόν|n|tr=proion}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|prodotto|m}}, {{t+|it|frutto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Basque}}: {{t|eu|produktu|xs=Basque}}, {{t|eu|ekoizpen|xs=Basque}}
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: {{t-|et|toode}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: {{t|id|produk|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[producto]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t+|es|producto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[multiplication]]: ([[multiplier]]) × ([[multiplicand]]) = ([[product]])

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-product.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=n||*}}

# [[#English|product]]

[[zh-min-nan:product]]
[[et:product]]
[[el:product]]
[[es:product]]
[[fr:product]]
[[ko:product]]
[[io:product]]
[[id:product]]
[[it:product]]
[[kn:product]]
[[kk:product]]
[[ku:product]]
[[lo:product]]
[[lt:product]]
[[hu:product]]
[[ml:product]]
[[nl:product]]
[[ja:product]]
[[pl:product]]
[[pt:product]]
[[ru:product]]
[[simple:product]]
[[fi:product]]
[[ta:product]]
[[te:product]]
[[tr:product]]
[[vi:product]]
[[zh:product]]