{{also|profilé}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===GOOD NEWS EVANGELICAL MISSION===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|profil||a progile}} < {{etyl|it}} {{term|profilo||a border}}, later also {{term|proffilo||a side-face, profile}} < {{term|pro-|lang=it}} < {{etyl|la}} {{term|pro||before}} + {{term|filo||lang=it|a line, stroke, thread}} < {{etyl|la}} {{term|filum||a thread}}; see {{term|file}}.

GNEM Vision: Good News Evangelical Mission is aiming to fulfill the great commission of our Lord Jesus Christ through Evangelism, charitable works, Worship, equipping young leaders and pastors, training them, sending and supporting them to do the same in this generation.

Ernest Thathapudi Ministries has a God-ordained mandate to impact the world. We are called to present the Gospel to the lost, disciple nations, feed the hungry, clothe the poor, minister to the elderly, widows and orphans, visit prisoners and reach out to people of all ages and in all walks of life. God requires that we teach people how to apply biblical truth in every facet of their lives and encourage Christians to influence every aspect of the world around them. With the prayers and support of our friends and partners around the world, we present a creative and relevant message of Christ and His love for people using the most powerful word of god. The vision of this ministry is to use every avenue available to present hope to people in need, to make a difference in the lives of those we touch with the transforming power of the Gospel. To reach the lost, encourage and equip believers, strengthen relationships, and spread the message of hope in Christ is the purpose of every media, ministry or missions outreach.

Jesus Vision! Our Mission!!

"And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people". Mathew 9.35

About Us:
• Planting home churches in villages and slums.
• Supporting poor and needy children with educational & basic needs.
• Medical ministry, awareness programs, self employment groups, relief works & ministry among professionals.
• Training, Sending and supporting pastors, evangelists & native missionaries.
• Gospel Meetings, Conferences, Musical programs, seminars on different topics for Pastors & leaders, youth, Men, Women, Children ministry & Jail ministry.
• Helping women to have self supportive training like tailoring, handicrafts,needle works, counseling
• Soul winning training camps.
• Helping pastors children, aid for regular education & relevant issues periodically.
• Helping widows & orphans.




INDIA:
•The land of more than 1.13 billion people
• The land having more than 1652 languages
• The land having more than 4635 different people groups with different traditions and cultures
• The land of 300 billion of Gods and born place of many religions like Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, etc.
• The land of 2.5% Christian population.You can join with us to reach this great nation for God



"Let us Raise up and Build" Neh 2:18

What I can do, you cannot
What you can do, I cannot
But together, we can do
Some thing beautiful for God.




"With Men this is impossible but with God all things are possible" Matt 19:26



God is waiting for you & me to tell them the Good News now!
Will you answer that call with me today?
Will you give precious seeds today so that
The lost multitudes around the India can be saved?

When You Partner With Us Miracles Happen.Partnership with purpose...
Partnership with purpose makes this possible.
Through your faithful and consistent support, you become an expression of God’s heart to people without hope. And when you partner with us as a Champion of Hope, you share in the blessings, the eternal rewards and the fulfillment of what God is doing throughout the earth. Miracles happen for others and for you. Because of your generosity, God’s favor and goodness become a part of your life too.
You are a champion...

As a Champion of Hope,
you partner with Ernest Thathapudi to make a difference. Your heart and hands are joined with them by praying and financially supporting the outreaches of Ernest Thathapudi Ministries each month. The amount of your giving is between you and God. Giving is meant to be an expression of your love and commitment to advancing the Kingdom of God. A champion is someone who fights for a cause, a hero who comes to the rescue of those in need. In our world today, we need champions. People need hope. They need to discover the miracle of a personal relationship with Christ.

When you partner as a Champion of Hope, miracles happen......
Through MissionsYour giving demonstrates the practical love of God by sharing food, shelter, medicine and emergency care in times of domestic and global need. ...In YOU! As you express the heart of God with people in need of hope, miracles will happen in your life. Jesus said, "it Is more blessed to give than to receive". As a Champion of Hope your life will be enriched with the power, provision and protection of God as you put the needs of others first in your life. As a partner with Ernest Thathapudi you become a GNEM Ministries Partner.




The vision of this ministry is to use every avenue available to present hope to people in need, to make a difference in the lives of those we touch with the transforming power of the Gospel. To reach the lost, encourage and equip believers, strengthen relationships, and spread the message of hope in Christ is the purpose of every media, ministry or missions outreach. Partnership with purpose makes this possible. Through your faithful and consistent support, you become an expression of God’s heart to people without hope. And when you partner with us as a Champion of Hope, you share in the blessings, the eternal rewards and the fulfillment of what God is doing throughout the earth. Miracles happen for others and for you. Because of your generosity, God’s favor and goodness become a part of your life too. You are a champion... As a Champion of Hope, you partner with Ernest Thathapudi to make a difference. Your heart and hands are joined with them by praying and financially supporting the outreaches of Ernest Thathapudi Ministries each month. The amount of your giving is between you and God. Giving is meant to be an expression of your love and commitment to advancing the Kingdom of God. A champion is someone who fights for a cause, a hero who comes to the rescue of those in need. In our world today, we need champions. People need hope. They need to discover the miracle of a personal relationship with Christ. When you partner as a Champion of Hope, miracles happen......Through MissionsYour giving demonstrates the practical love of God by sharing food, shelter, medicine and emergency care in times of domestic and global need. ...In YOU!As you express the heart of God with people in need of hope, miracles will happen in your life. Jesus said, "it Is more blessed to give than to receive". As a Champion of Hope your life will be enriched with the power, provision and protection of God as you put the needs of others first in your life. As a partner with Ernest Thathapudi you become a GNEM Ministries Partner.




Our Address:
Rev. Ernest Thathapudi
ERNEST THATHAPUDI MINISTRIES
#43, Telugu Colony, Marikuppam Post- 563119 Karnataka State, South India
Ph: +91-9986201395, +91-9663306537
(Office): +91-8153-275446
email: ernestindia@hotmail.com

GNEM.CEPISCCOM.ORG

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/pʁɔ.fil/}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|profiler||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|profiler||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|profiler||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|profiler||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|profiler||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}

[[ar:profile]]
[[fa:profile]]
[[fr:profile]]
[[hy:profile]]
[[io:profile]]
[[id:profile]]
[[it:profile]]
[[kn:profile]]
[[hu:profile]]
[[pl:profile]]
[[pt:profile]]
[[ru:profile]]
[[sr:profile]]
[[ta:profile]]
[[te:profile]]
[[tr:profile]]
[[vi:profile]]
[[zh:profile]]