==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|prolepsis|ic}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/pɹoʊˈlɛptɪk/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of a [[calendar]], [[extrapolated]] to [[dates]] prior to its first adoption; of those used to adjust to or from the [[Julian calendar]] or [[Gregorian calendar]].
# Of an event, assigned a date that is too early.
# {{lb|en|rhetoric}} Anticipating and answering objections before they have been raised; [[procataleptic]].

====Quotations====
* '''1877''', W. B. Pope., ''A Compendium of Christian Theology'', Volume 2, Wesleyan Conference Office, 2 Castle Street, Coty Road; Sold at 66, Paternoster Row, p. 348:
*: It must be always remembered that this was the object for which the Three Chapters which the Predestinarians have taken refuge in: they were written in fact as a '''proleptical''' refutation of such views.
* '''1925''', John Dewey. ''Experience and Nature'' In The Later Works of John Dewey, Vol. 1, Southern Illinois University Press, Carbondale (IL), p. 150:
*: When we name an event, calling it fire, we speak '''proleptically'''; we do not name an immediate event; that is impossible. We employ a term of discourse; we invoke a meaning, namely, the potential consequence of the existence.
* '''1989''', W. Paul Jones. ''Theological Worlds'' Abingdon Press, Nashville, p. 151:
*: In World Two, Jesus can be seen as the '''proleptic''' event, giving promise of God's vindication of creation in and through history.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Anticipating and answering objections}} {{l|en|anticipatory}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|proleptically}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|calendar: extrapolated to dates prior to its first adoption}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|proleptinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|proleptique|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|proleptique|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having been assigned too early a date}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|преждевре́менный}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Calendar terms]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|ro|fr|proleptique}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj}}

# {{l|en|proleptic}}

====Declension====
{{ro-decl-adj}}