==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|proporcion|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|proportion|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|proportio||comparative relation, proportion, symmetry, analogy|lang=la}}, from {{term|pro||for, before}} + {{term|portio||share, part}}; see [[portion]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-proportion.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

#{{lb|en|countable}} A quantity of something that is part of the whole amount or number.
#*{{RQ:Chmbrs YngrSt|VI}}
#*:“I don't mean all of your friends—only a small '''proportion'''—which, however, connects your circle with that deadly, idle, brainless bunch—the insolent chatterers at the opera, the gorged dowagers, the worn-out, passionless men, the enervated matrons of the summer capital,{{nb...}}!”
#{{lb|en|uncountable}} Harmonious relation of parts to each other or to the whole.
#{{lb|en|countable}} Proper or equal share.
#*{{w|Jeremy Taylor}} (1613–1677)
#*:Let the women{{...}}do the same things in their '''proportions''' and capacities.
#The relation of one part to another or to the whole with respect to magnitude, quantity, or degree.
#:{{ux|en|the '''proportion''' of the parts of a building, or of the body}}
#*{{w|Lancelot Ridley}} (ca.1500-1576)
#*:The image of Christ, made after his own '''proportion'''.
#*Sir {{w|Walter Scott}} (1771-1832)
#*:Formed in the best '''proportions''' of her sex.
#*{{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay|Thomas Macaulay}} (1800-1859)
#*:Documents are authentic and facts are true precisely in '''proportion''' to the support which they afford to his theory.
#{{lb|en|mathematics|countable}} A [[statement]] of [[equality]] between two [[ratio]]s.
#{{lb|en|countable|chiefly|in the plural}} [[size|Size]].
#*{{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=8
|passage=The humor of my proposition appealed more strongly to Miss Trevor than I had looked for, and from that time forward she became her old self again;{{...}}. Now she had come to look upon the matter in its true '''proportions''', and her anticipation of a possible chance of teaching him a lesson was a pleasure to behold.}}
#*{{quote-news|year=2012|date=May 20|author=Nathan Rabin
|title=[http://www.avclub.com/articles/marge-gets-a-job,73723/ TV: Review: THE SIMPSONS (CLASSIC): “Marge Gets A Job” (season 4, episode 7; originally aired 11/05/1992)]
|work=The Onion AV Club
|passage=What other television show would feature a gorgeously designed sequence where a horrifically mutated Pierre and Marie Curie, their bodies swollen to Godzilla-like '''proportions''' from prolonged exposure to the radiation that would eventually kill them, destroy an Asian city with their bare hands like vengeance-crazed monster-Gods?}}

====Derived terms====
* [[in proportion]]
* [[proportional]]
* [[proportionally]]
* [[proportionate]]
* [[proportioner]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|quantity that is part of the whole}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|proporció|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|比例|tr=bǐlì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|poměr}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|proporcio}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|osa}}, {{t+|fi|osuus}}, {{t+|fi|suhde}}
* French: {{t+|fr|proportion|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Proportion|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: proportion
* Irish: {{t|ga|comhréir|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|割合|tr=わりあい, wariai|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|比例|tr=ひれい, hirei|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|proporção|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пропорция|f|tr=propórcija|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|proporción|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|orantı}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|tỉ lệ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|arts|lang=en}} To set or render in proportion.

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[az:proportion]]
[[ca:proportion]]
[[cs:proportion]]
[[cy:proportion]]
[[de:proportion]]
[[et:proportion]]
[[el:proportion]]
[[es:proportion]]
[[eu:proportion]]
[[fa:proportion]]
[[fr:proportion]]
[[ko:proportion]]
[[hy:proportion]]
[[io:proportion]]
[[id:proportion]]
[[it:proportion]]
[[kn:proportion]]
[[ku:proportion]]
[[li:proportion]]
[[hu:proportion]]
[[mg:proportion]]
[[ml:proportion]]
[[my:proportion]]
[[nl:proportion]]
[[ja:proportion]]
[[pl:proportion]]
[[ru:proportion]]
[[simple:proportion]]
[[fi:proportion]]
[[sv:proportion]]
[[ta:proportion]]
[[te:proportion]]
[[chr:proportion]]
[[vi:proportion]]
[[zh:proportion]]