{{also|provén|prøven}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Scottish English, as past participle of {{m|en|preve}}, a {{inh|en|enm|-}} variant of {{m|en|prove}}<ref name="ahd">{{R:American Heritage 2000|prove}}</ref><ref name="mw">{{R:Merriam Webster Online|prove}}</ref> – compare {{m|en|woven}} (from {{m|en|weave}}) and {{m|en|cloven}} (from {{m|en|cleave}}),<ref name="ahd" /> both of which feature ''-eve'' → ''-oven''. {{m|en||Preve}} died out in England, but survived in Scotland, where '''proven''' developed, initially in a legal context, as in “The jury ruled that the charges were not proven.”<ref name="ahd" /> See [[#Usage notes|usage notes]] for historical usage patterns.

Earlier, from {{der|en|LL.|probō||test, try, examine, approve, show to be good or fit, prove|pos=verb}}, from {{der|en|la|probus||good, worthy, excellent}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*pro-bʰuH-s||being in front, prominent}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*pro-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*per-||toward}} + {{m|ine-pro|*bʰuH-||to be}}.

Morphologically {{suffix|en|prove|n}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|pro͞oʹvən|prōʹvən}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹuːvən/|/ˈpɹəʊvən/}}
** {{a|Scotland}} {{enPR|prōʹvən}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹoːvən/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|pro͞oʹvən}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈpɹuvən/}}
* {{rhymes|en|uːvən|əʊvən|s=2}}
* {{hyphenation|en|prov|en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having been [[prove]]d; having proved its value or truth.
#: ''It's a '''proven''' fact that morphine is a more effective painkiller than acetaminophen is.''
#: ''Mass lexical comparison is not a '''proven''' method for demonstrating relationships between languages.''

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|unproven}}
* {{l|en|disproven}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having been proved}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|প্রমাণিত}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|todennettu}}, {{t+|fi|todistettu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prouvé}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|dearfa}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|provato}}, {{t+|it|dimostrato}}, {{t+|it|comprovato}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|provado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дока́занный}}, {{t+|ru|испы́танный}}, {{t+|ru|подтверждённый}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|diyama}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|доведений}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|bewezen}}
* German: {{t+check|de|bewiesen}}, {{t+check|de|nachgewiesen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+check|el|αποδεδειγμένος}}
* Polish: {{t-check|pl|dowiedziony|m}}, {{t-check|pl|sprawdzony|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{lb|en|proscribed}} {{past participle of|en|prove|nocat=1}}

====Usage notes====
As the past participle of {{m|en|prove}}, '''proven''' is often discouraged, with {{m|en|proved}} preferred – “have proved” rather than “have proven”; the prescriptivism is however rarely observed in practice. They are both equally common in everyday use in [[American English|American]] and [[Canadian English]]. Both are used and considered correct in [[British English]], but “have proved” is more common.<ref name=oed>{{R:Lexico|prove}}</ref><ref name="ahd"/><ref name="mw"/> Note as well the somewhat comparable differences in conjugation with “have [[snuck]]” and “have [[dove#Etymology 2|dove]]” (American English and Canadian English) as opposed to “have [[sneaked]]” and “have [[dived]]” (British English), with regional exceptions.

Historically, ''proved'' is the older form, while '''proven''' arose as a Scottish variant – see [[#Etymology|etymology]]. Used in legal writing from the mid-17th century, it entered literary usage more slowly, only becoming significant in the 19th century, with the poet {{w|Alfred, Lord Tennyson}} among the earliest frequent users (presumably for reasons of meter).<ref name="mw"/> In the 19th century, '''proven''' was widely discouraged, and remained significantly less common through the mid-20th century (''proved'' being used approximately four times as often); by the late 20th century it came to be used about equally often in US English.<ref name="mw"/>

As an attributive adjective, '''proven''' is much<ref name="mw"/><ref name=oed/> more commonly used,<ref name="ahd"/> and {{m|en|proved}} is widely considered an error – “a proven method”, as opposed to *“a proved method”, although grammatically it would not be.

===References===
<references/>
* {{R:Brians 2008|proved|proved/proven}}

[[Category:English adjectives ending in -en]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]

----

==Catalan==

===Verb===
{{head|ca|verb form}}

# {{ca-verb form of|p=3|n=pl|t=pres|m=ind|provar}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|nl|Nl-proven.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{head|nl|noun form}}

# {{nl-noun form of|pl|prove}}