==English==

===Etymology===
{{confix|pseph|-o-|cracy}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|psĭfŏʹkrəsi|psēfŏʹkrəsi|psĕfŏʹkrəsi}}, {{IPA|/psɪˈfɒkɹəsi/|/psiːˈfɒkɹəsi/|/psɛˈfɒkɹəsi/}}, {{SAMPA|/psI"fQkr\@si/|/psi:"fQkr\@si/|/psE"fQkr\@si/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|psēfŏʹkrəsi}}, {{IPA|/psiˈfɑkɻəsi/}}, {{SAMPA|/psi"fAkr\`@si/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|pl=[[*]]'''psephocracies'''}}

# [[government|Government]] by [[ballot]]-elected [[representative]]s; [[representative democracy]]. {{non-gloss definition|Often contrasted with [[democracy]], wherewith it is [[depreciatory|depreciatorily]] compared for its lack of [[demotic]] participation in the political [[process]] outside of [[election]]s.}}

====Quotations====
* '''1966''', April 15<sup>th</sup>: ''[[w:New Statesman|New Statesman]]'', 531/1⁽¹⁾<!-- ? --> and 531/2⁽²⁾<!-- ? -->
*: ⁽¹⁾ How then did Britain […] become a democracy? […] It never did… What we do have is representative government, or the rule of the ballot-box, or (in one word) {{q|psephocracy}}.
*: ⁽²⁾ {{q|Psephocracy}} on the British model has been extended, thanks to the advice of British psephocrats, to a couple of dozen nations.
* '''1966''': ''Illustrated Weekly of Pakistan'', pages <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?lr=&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=10&num=100&as_brr=0&id=D-ANAQAAIAAJ&dq=%22psephocracy%22&q=%22psephocracy+has+its+exemplar%22 15]⁽¹⁾ and [http://books.google.co.uk/books?lr=&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=10&num=100&as_brr=0&id=D-ANAQAAIAAJ&dq=%22psephocracy%22&q=%22pantomime+psephocracy%22 16]</span>⁽²⁾
*: ⁽¹⁾ For, true democracy — the acme of good government — and ''not'' {{q}}, has its exemplar in all traditional governments of different regions of Black Africa. Our ancestors had ever gone through the charades of resisting unusual dictatorial system<!-- [sic] --> of authority asserted by any chief over the community.
*: ⁽²⁾ An example of our fathers’ democracy was Kgotla which was recently dispensed with few<!-- [sic] --> months ago in Bechuanaland to be replaced with the old fashioned pantomime {{q|psephocracy}}.
* '''1967''': [[w:Antony Jay|Antony Jay]], ''Management and Machiavelli: An Inquiry into the Politics of Corporate Life'', pages <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?lr=&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=1&num=100&as_brr=0&id=2_FAAAAAIAAJ&dq=%22psephocracy%22&q=%22called+psephocracy%22 219]⁽¹⁾ and [http://books.google.co.uk/books?lr=&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=1&num=100&as_brr=0&id=2_FAAAAAIAAJ&dq=%22psephocracy%22&q=%22democracy+becomes+psephocracy%22+%22growth+of+psephocracy%22 222]⁽²⁾</span> (Holt, Rinehart and Winston)
*: ⁽¹⁾ Technically, democracy is a form of government in which ultimate power rests with the governed. Or something. If you try to define it more closely you get more and more involved, and when you try to clear your mind by going back to Athens where it all began, you find the whole system was supported by a vast voteless slave population and you give up in despair. So let us leave it at that. But, in a popular sense, “democratic” means something else: an attitude, an instinct, a way of doing things, which consults people in advance, and takes account of their views and wishes and ideas before making final decisions. The former, technical democracy, the democracy of the ballot box, is sometimes called {{q}}, and because I want to treat them separately here, I will keep the distinction.
*: ⁽²⁾ Then, on the principle of no taxation without representation, democracy becomes {{q}}, and those who contribute the money demand the right to vote on the method of spending it. [¶] It is interesting to watch the growth of {{q|psephocracy}} […]
* '''1970''', February: ''<span class="plainlinks">[http://catalogue.nla.gov.au/Record/2298705 Science Journal]</span>'', 27/1<!-- ? -->
*: The present system<!-- (of government) --> is more of a leadership than a referred system — the so called ‘{{q|psephocracy}}’.
* '''1971''': [[w:Ivor Brown|Ivor John Carnegie Brown]], ''Random Words'', <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=YD8oAAAAMAAJ&q=%22psephocracy%22&dq=%22psephocracy%22&lr=&num=100&as_brr=0&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=9 page 48]</span> (Bodley Head)
*: Nor do I see much future for mesocracy, the rule of the middle-class. Small is their voting power, {{q|psephocracy}}, if […]
* '''1994''': ''[[w:Modern Law Review|Modern Law Review]]'', volume 57, page 226
*: The people are not the government; what they do is elect it; and so the pedant would say we have in this country not democracy, but {{q|psephocracy}}.
* '''1995''': John Aneurin Grey Griffith, ''Public Law'', <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=F8VsAAAAIAAJ&q=%22psephocracy%22&dq=%22psephocracy%22&lr=&num=100&as_brr=0&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=6 page 90]</span> (Stevens & Sons)
*: I do not of course suggest that there are circumstances presently foreseeable in which an elected government might seek to prolong its own existence by subverting the people’s right to vote, or otherwise to effect fundamental and undemocratic changes in the nature of our governmental institutions. My thesis is that the citizen’s democratic rights go hand in hand with other fundamental rights; the latter, certainly, may in reality be more imaginably at risk, in any given set of political circumstances, than the former. The point is that both are or should be off limits for our elected representatives. They are not matters upon which, in a delegated democracy — a {{q|psephocracy}} — the authority of the ballot-box is any authority at all. It is a premise of elective government, where free people are the voters, that these principles be observed by whoever is elected.
* '''1999''': [[w:Ashis Nandy|Ashis Nandy]], ''The Secret Politics of our Desires: Innocence, Culpability and Indian Popular Cinema'', <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=5-mFd5pfgNsC&pg=PA4&dq=%22psephocracy%22&lr=&num=100&as_brr=0&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=5#v=onepage&q=%22psephocracy%22&f=false page 4] ([http://www.palgrave-usa.com/catalog/product.aspx?isbn=1856495167 Palgrave Macmillan]</span>; ISBN 1856495167)
*: In a plebiscitary democracy threatening to become a {{q|psephocracy}}, numbers count; and though in the last six decades rural India has arrived politically, even the cause of rural India has now to be processed through the urban middle-class consciousness.
* '''2008''', June 24<sup>th</sup>–30<sup>th</sup>: [[w:Ashis Nandy|Ashis Nandy]] and Sheela Reddy, “Democracy is now psephocracy”, in ''Outlook'', volume 48, № 26, <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=WTEEAAAAMBAJ&pg=PT24&dq=%22psephocracy%22&lr=&num=100&as_brr=0&ei=BwqJS_D_DpbqyASqyPXtDQ&cd=2#v=onepage&q=%22psephocracy%22&f=false page 89]</span>
*: Indian democracy is fast degenerating into a {{q|psephocracy}} — a system totally dominated by electoral victories and defeats. The moment you enter office, you begin to think of the next election.

====Derived terms====
* *[[Citations:psephocrat|psephocrat]] {{i|[[Wiktionary:Criteria for inclusion#Attestation|insufficient attestation]]}}<!-- listed in the OED: http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/30008280 -->

====Related terms====
* [[psephograph]] {{i|rare}}
* [[psephology]]

===References===
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://ed2.oed.com/cgi/display/00191402 psephocracy]</span>” listed in the ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]]'' [2<sup>nd</sup> Ed.; 1989]
* “psephocracy” listed on <span class="plainlinks">[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=JKuyXm1h-zoC&pg=PA23&dq=%22psephocracy+voting%3B+a+constitution+determined+by+voting%22&lr=&num=100&as_brr=0&ei=JEmJS_CGOZ28M_3QxPgO&cd=1#v=onepage&q=%22psephocracy%20voting%3B%20a%20constitution%20determined%20by%20voting%22&f=false page 23] of ''The Aldrich Dictionary of Phobias and Other Word Families'' by Chris Aldrich (2002; [http://www.trafford.com/Bookstore/BookDetail.aspx?Book=177281 Trafford Publishing]</span>; ISBN 9781553698869)
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50191398 psephocracy, ''n.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; Sept. 2007]

[[Category:Forms of government]]