==English==

===Etymology===
From {{m|en|psyche}} + {{m|en|electronic}}, coined during the [[Iron Curtain]] decades after French term ''psychotronique'' attributed to engineer Fernand Clerc, who proposed it in November 1954's number of journal ‘Vie des Métiers’ (translatable as "Life of profession"), defining it as "use of thought and will".<ref name="oed">[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]], [http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/266023 ''psychotronics, n.''], ([[OED]], 2007)</ref><ref group="footnotes">''"Electricity, electronics,
cybernetics.. and then?.. Propose Psychotronics, as 'use of thought and will'."''</ref> Resumed and popularized by French technical magazine "Toute la Radio" in January of the following year.<ref name="oed" /><ref name="metapsychique">Hubert Larcher, [http://www.metapsychique.org/La-parapsychologie-hier-aujourd.html ''La parapsychologie hier, aujourd’hui, demain''], ([[w:Institut Métapsychique International|Institut Métapsychique International]], 1983)</ref><ref group="footnotes">''"Psychotronic? The technical vocabulary could be enriched soon with this new term? It is offered in the number of last November's 'Vie des Métiers' (which broadly translates into "Life of profession') by our colleague and spiritual friend Fernand Clerc that writes: 'Electricity, electronics, cybernetics.. and then?.. Propose Psychotronics, as 'use of thought and will'. Brain currents are detected and measured at the micro-volts. Dowsers and yogis are said to be already able, without intermediary, without amplification, only by the concentration of their thought, of dropping a droplet to the right or left of a razor blade. Dr. of Science André Sainte-Lagué says each of us has the ability to produce these infinitesimal actions at a distance. A sheltered desire to pressure from external disturbances, will not be long in activating relays and servo motors. The heavy doors of the Chicago World Fair were opened to 'the appointed hour by the passage of the star Aldebaran instead calculated by astronomers'. It will one day be thought of President of the Republic who will operate the microwave circuits, printed, embraced to the doors of the Psychotronics Applied Salon. The word is formed with a rare etymological happiness. If the "thing" becomes real, you know, thanks to Fernand Clerc, how to call it".''</ref><ref>[[w:w:Zdeněk Rejdák|Zdeněk Rejdák]], [http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0001/000107/010749eo.pdf ''Psychotronics: the state of the art''], ([[UNESCO]], 1974)</ref><ref group="footnotes">''"We specialists in the field decided to adopt the term 'psychotronics' proposed, by the French engineer Fernand Clerc, in the radio-technical journal Toute la Radio. 'Parapsychology' thus reverts, like mesmerism or metapsychology, to the description of a stage of development of psychotronics."''</ref> In a nutshell, "Toute la Radio", Fernard Clerc and Andrè Saint-Lagué speculated, although with technical preparation, on the theorethical chance of engaging in [[telekinesis]], but particularly on the chance of operating microwave printed circuits by means of concentration, justifying it with the argument that "brain currents are detected and measured at the micro-volts".

In the late 1960s the term will be prized by Czech (and generally by the socialist bloc) parapsychology researchers (particularly, [[w:Zdeněk Rejdák|Zdeněk Rejdák]], a prolific Czech scientist), and admittedly used to dub the term [[parapsychology]] to avoid its negative connotations, "to advance parapsychology as a science" (as stated in the Costitution of the [[w:Parapsychological Association|Parapsychological Association]] in 1957), and because apparently other than the desired scientific aptitude and status it lacked the concept of "energy", which is found now in the desinence {{m|en|electronic}}. The term has been then popularised during the second half of the [[Cold War]] by science fiction and fears of [[mind control]].

According to a 1983 writing by parapsychology researcher Larissa Vilenskaya, "the term was first proposed with the analogy of [[bionics]] in mind", likely referring to Fernand Clerc's original thinking.<ref name="Larissa">Larissa Vilenskaya, ''Psi Research: An East - West Journal on Parapsycology, Psychotronics and Psychobiophysics (1983) [p. 107]'', cited in ''[http://parapsych.org/articles/53/357/psychotronics.aspx Psychotronics - The Parapsychological Association]''</ref>

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or pertaining to [[psychotronics]]
#* '''1995''', Owen Matthews, ''Report: Soviets Used Top-Secret ''''Psychotronic'''' Weapons'', [[w:themoscowtimes.com|TheMoscowTimes.com]]
#*:"Reports have emerged of a top secret program of "'''psychotronic'''" brainwashing techniques developed by the KGB and the Ministry of Defense in the 1970s to turn soldiers into fearless, unquestioning fighting machines and enemies into lethargic vegetables. he techniques, which include debilitating high frequency radio waves, hypnotic computer-scrambled sounds and mind-bending electromagnetic fields, as well as an ultrasound gun capable of killing a cat at fifty meters.."
#* '''2012''', Alan Boyle, ''Reality check on Russia's 'zombie ray gun' program'', [[w:nbcnews.com|nbcNews.com]]
#*:"The Americans as well as the Russians have been looking into '''psychotronic''' weapons for more than 15 years. You can find [http://www.angelfire.com/az3/newzone/mku.html ample references] to the subject on the Internet, including a [http://www.usnews.com/usnews/culture/articles/970707/archive_007360.htm feature published by U.S. News and World Report] in 1997 and a [http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/parameters/Articles/98spring/thomas.htm report written for a U.S. Army publication in 1998]. Such weapons purport to take advantage of the effect that pulsed microwaves can have on brain activity. Some researchers have reported an effect known as microwave hearing, in which a directed beam of radiation produces a sensation of buzzing, clicking or hissing in the head."
# Of or relating to a genre of low-budget [[film]]s featuring fantastic horror or science fiction themes

===References===
<references />

===Notes===
<references group="footnotes" />