==English==

===Etymology===
Apparently from the habit of soldiers poking their heads out of army troop trains to make smart remarks. Australian from ''circa'' 1930.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pulls one's head in|pulling one's head in|pulled one's head in|pulled one's head in}}

# {{simile}} {{Australia|New Zealand}} To [[withdraw]]; to [[discontinue]] what one is doing or saying; to [[back off]].
#: ''I really should have '''pulled my head in''' once they produced that evidence.''
#* '''1968''', [[w:John Rowe (author)|John Rowe]], ''Count Your Dead'', 2003, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=7ZpXKgBoTlIC&pg=PA68&dq=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling+my|your|their+head|heads+in%22+-intitle:%22puggled|puggling%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HBfxT5aWE-bUmAWSo-i-DQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling%20my|your|their%20head|heads%20in%22%20-intitle%3A%22puggled|puggling%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 68],
#*: “Come on. Get yer gear off. Get yer gear off like mine,” the fanstopper Australian shouted, standing and pointing to his own bare chest. Two of his friends pulled him back down into his chair.
#*: “'''Pull your head in''',” one of them said.
#* '''2011''', [[w:Barry Hall|Barry Hall]], Michael Cowley, ''Pulling No Punches'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=-g1Rm1HpBjYC&pg=PT34&dq=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling+my|your|their+head|heads+in%22+-intitle:%22puggled|puggling%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HBfxT5aWE-bUmAWSo-i-DQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling%20my|your|their%20head|heads%20in%22%20-intitle%3A%22puggled|puggling%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: ‘But you have got to '''pull your head in''' a little bit,’ he said. ‘We love your aggression and your toughness, but all the other stuff is hurting you – we need to pull you into line.’
#* '''2012''', [[w:Brendan Fevola|Brendan Fevola]], Adam McNicol, ''Fev: In My Own Words'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=U2weGKHjqlsC&pg=PT109&dq=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling+my|your|their+head|heads+in%22+-intitle:%22puggled|puggling%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HBfxT5aWE-bUmAWSo-i-DQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22pull|pulls|pulled|pulling%20my|your|their%20head|heads%20in%22%20-intitle%3A%22puggled|puggling%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: Denis also told me to me '''pull my head in''' on ''The Footy Show'', but that was never going to happen. I loved being the class clown on that show too much.

====See also====
* [[stick one's neck out]]