{{also|Pull}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=pull}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|pullen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|pullian||to pull, draw, tug, pluck off|lang=ang}}. Related to {{etyl|dum|-}} {{term|pullen||to drink|lang=dum}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|pulen||to pick, pluck, pull, tear, strip off husks|lang=nds}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|púla||to work hard, beat|lang=is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|po͝ol}}, {{IPA|/pʊl/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-pull.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʊl|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|intransitive|lang=en}} to apply a [[force]] to (an object) so that it comes [[toward]] the person or thing applying the force
#: ''When I give the signal, '''pull''' the rope.''
#: ''You're going to have to '''pull''' harder to get that cork out of the bottle.''
#* Bible, Genesis viii. 9
#*: He put forth his hand {{...}} and '''pulled''' her in.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Ne'er '''pull''' your hat upon your brows.
# To gather with the hand, or by drawing toward oneself; to [[pluck]].
#: ''to '''pull''' fruit from a tree; to '''pull''' flax; to '''pull''' a finch''
# To [[attract]] or [[net]]; to [[pull in]].
#* Marcella Ridlen Ray, ''Changing and Unchanging Face of United States Civil Society''
#*: Television, a favored source of news and information, '''pulls''' the largest share of advertising monies.
# To draw apart; to tear; to rend.
#* Bible, Lam. iii. 11
#*: He hath turned aside my ways, and '''pulled''' me in pieces; he hath made me desolate.
# {{context|ambitransitive|UK|Ireland|slang|lang=en}} to persuade (someone) to have sex with one<!-- or to be 'on the pull' (willing to have sex)-->
#: ''I '''pulled''' at the club last night.''
#: ''He's pulled that bird over there.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} to [[remove]] (something), especially from public [[circulation]] or [[availability]]
#: ''Each day, they '''pulled''' the old bread and set out fresh loaves.''
# {{context|transitive|informal|lang=en}} to [[do]] or [[perform]]
#: ''He regularly '''pulls''' 12-hour days, sometimes 14.''
#: ''You'll be sent home if you '''pull''' another stunt like that.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} to [[retrieve]] or [[generate]] for use
#: ''I'll have to '''pull''' a part number for that.''
#* '''2006''', Michael Bellomo, Joel Elad, ''How to Sell Anything on Amazon...and Make a Fortune!''
#*: They'll go through their computer system and '''pull''' a report of all your order fulfillment records for the time period you specify.
# to toss a [[frisbee]] with the intention of launching the disc across the length of a field
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} to [[row]]
#* '''1874''', {{w|Marcus Clarke}}, {{w|For the Term of His Natural Life}} Chapter VI
#*: It had been a sort of race hitherto, and the rowers, with set teeth and compressed lips, had '''pulled''' stroke for stroke.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[strain]] (a [[muscle]], [[tendon]], [[ligament]], etc.).
# {{context|video games|ambitransitive|lang=en}} To draw (a hostile [[non-player character]]) into combat, or toward or away from some location or target.
#* '''2003''' April 9, "Richard Lawson" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.games.everquest/msg/ef966301acc57674 Monual's Willful Ignorance]", in <tt>alt.games.everquest</tt>, Usenet:
#*: …we had to clear a long hallway, run up half way, '''pull''' the boss mob to us, and engage.
#* '''2004''' October 18, "Stush" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.games.dark-age-of-camelot/msg/15cb6d42a08013c0 Re: focus pull]", in <tt>alt.games.dark-age-of-camelot</tt>, Usenet:
#*: Basically buff pet, have it '''pull''' lots of mobs, shield pet, chain heal pet, have your aoe casters finish off hurt mobs once pet gets good aggro.
#* '''2005''' August 2, "Brian" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.games.warcraft/msg/1806eabe4cf56d24 Re: How to tank Stratholme undead pulls?]", in <tt>alt.games.warcraft</tt>, Usenet:
#*: This is the only thing that should get you to break off from your position, is to '''pull''' something off the healer.
#* '''2007''' April 10, "John Salerno" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.games.warcraft/msg/d17abeaedce0ebc0 Re: Managing the Command Buttons]", in <tt>alt.games.warcraft</tt>, Usenet:
#*: You could also set a fire trap, '''pull''' the mob toward it, then send in your pet….
#* '''2008''' August 18, "Mark (newsgroups)" (username), "[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.games.warcraft/msg/72486e99a34604b5 Re: I'm a priest now!]", in <tt>alt.games.warcraft</tt>, Usenet:
#*: Shield yourself, '''pull''' with Mind Blast if you want, or merely '''pull''' with SW:P to save mana, then wand, fear if you need to, but use the lowest rank fear.
# to [[score]] a certain amount of points in a sport.
#* ''How many points did you '''pull''' today, Albert?''
# {{context|horse-racing|lang=en}} To hold back, and so prevent from winning.
#: ''The favourite was '''pulled'''.''
# {{context|printing|dated|lang=en}} To take or make (a [[proof]] or [[impression]]); so called because hand presses were worked by pulling a lever.
# {{context|cricket|golf|lang=en}} To strike the ball in a particular manner. (See noun sense.)
#* R. H. Lyttelton
#*: Never '''pull''' a straight fast ball to leg.
# {{context|UK|lang=en}} To draw beer from a pump, keg, or other source.
#: ''Let's stop at Finnigan's. The barman '''pulls''' a good pint.''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|apply force to (something) so it comes toward}} [[drag]], [[tow]], [[tug]], [[yank]]
* {{sense|slang: to persuade to have sex with one}} [[score]]
* {{sense|to remove from circulation}} [[recall]], [[withdraw]], [[yank]]
* {{sense|to do|to perform}} [[carry out]], [[complete]], [[do]], [[execute]], [[perform]]
* {{sense|to retrieve or generate for use}} [[generate]], [[get]], [[get hold of]], [[get one's hands on]], [[lay one's hands on]], [[obtain]], [[retrieve]]
* {{sense|to succeed in finding a person with whom to have sex.}} [[score]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|apply force to (something) so it comes towards one}} [[push]], [[repel]], [[shove]]

====Derived terms====
''See also'' '''[[pulling]]'''<!--as "pulling power"-->
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''pull'' (verb)}}
* [[it's not the whistle that pulls the train]]
* [[overpull]]
* [[pull a|pull a...]]
* [[pull about]]
* [[pull a face]]
* [[pull a fast one]]
* [[pull ahead]]
* [[pull away]]
* [[pull back]]
* [[pull down]]
* [[pull for]]
{{rel-mid3}}
<!--"pulley" is not derived from "pull"-->
* [[pull in]]
* [[pulling]]
* [[pull in one's horns]]
* [[pull off]]
* [[pull oneself together]]
* [[pull one's weight]]
* [[pull out]]
* [[pull out all the stops]]
* [[pull out of the fire]]
* [[pull over]]
<!--"pullover" is derived from "pull over"-->
* [[pull-quote]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[pull rank]]
* [[pull round]]
* [[pull somebody's leg]]
* [[pull someone's chain]]
* [[pull the other one]]
* [[pull the other one, it's got bells on]]
* [[pull the wool over someone's eyes]]
* [[pull through]]
* [[pull together]]
* [[pull up]]
<!--"pull-up" is derived from "pull up"-->
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transitive: apply force to (something) so it comes towards one}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|جَرَّ}}, {{t|ar|سَحَبَ}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|جر|tr=garr|sc=Arab}}, {{t|arz|جرجر|tr=gargar|sc=Arab}}, {{t|arz|سحب|tr=saḥab|sc=Arab}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|جر|tr=jerr}}, {{t|ary|جبد|tr=jbed}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|քաշել}}, {{t|hy|ձգել}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|çəkmək}}
* Belarusian: {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t|be|цяга́ць|impf}}, {{t|be|пацяга́ць|pf}}, {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t|be|цягну́ць|impf}}, {{t|be|пацягну́ць|pf}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|дърпам}}, {{t+|bg|влека}}, {{t+|bg|влача}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ဆွဲ}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|tirar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|拖拉|tr=tuōlā|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拉|tr=lā|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|引|tr=yǐn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|táhnout|impf}}, {{t|cs|tahat|impf}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|trække}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|trekken}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|tiri}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|tirâ}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|puxar}}, {{t+|gl|tirar}}
* German: {{t+|de|ziehen}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|खींचना|tr=khī̃cnā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|húz}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|menarik}}, {{t+|id|tarik}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tirare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|引く|tr=ひく, hiku}}, {{t|ja|引っ張る|tr=ひっぱる, hipparu|sc=Jpan}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|haler}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|тарту}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ទាញ|tr=tieɲ|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|끌다|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|뽑다|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ڕاکێشه‌}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
* Latin: {{t|la|vello}}, {{t+|la|traho}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|lacpu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|влече}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tarik}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|trekke}}, {{t+|no|dra}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|tira}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کشیدن|tr=kešidan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ciągnąć|impf}}, {{t|pl|pociągnąć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|puxar}}, {{t+|pt|tirar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|aysay}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|trage}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|trair}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тяну́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|потяну́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|тащи́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|потащи́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|тяга́ть|impf}} {{qualifier|abstract}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|slaod}}, {{t|gd|tarraing}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|потезати|impf}}, {{t|sh|потегнути|pf}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|potezati|impf}}, {{t+|sh|potegnuti|pf}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|tiahnuť|impf}}, {{t|sk|ťahať|impf}}, {{t|sk|potiahnuť|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|tegniti}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|śěgnuś|impf}} {{qualifier|continuative}}, {{t|dsb|śěgaś|impf}} {{qualifier|frequentative}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tirar}}, {{t+|es|jalar}}
* Sundanese: {{t|su|bedol}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|kuvuta}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dra}}, {{t+|sv|draga}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|లాగు}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ดึง|tr=deung|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çekmek}}
* Ukrainian: {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t|uk|тяга́ти|impf}}, {{t|uk|потяга́ти|pf}}, {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t|uk|тягти́|impf}}, {{t|uk|потягти́|pf}}, {{t|uk|тягну́ти|impf}}, {{t|uk|потягну́ти|pf}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|کهينچنا|tr=khī̃cnā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|kéo}}, {{t+|vi|giật}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|saetchî}}, {{t+|wa|haetchî}}
* West Frisian: {{t+|fy|trekke}}, {{t|fy|lûke}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: apply force such that an object comes toward the person or thing applying the force}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|քաշել}}, {{t|hy|ձգել}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|tahat}}, {{t+|cs|táhnout}}, {{t|cs|vytahovat}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|trække}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|tiri}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* German: {{t+|de|ziehen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tirare}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тяну́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|потяну́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|тащи́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|потащи́ть|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|slaod}}, {{t|gd|tarraing}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|jalar}}, {{t+|es|halar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dra}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|remove (something) from circulation}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retirer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|trekke}}, {{t|no|trekke tilbake}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|do, perform}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tehdä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|gjennomføre}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|retrieve or generate for use}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|antaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: persuade (a person) to have sex with one}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|iskeä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|succeed in finding a person with whom to have sex}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer un coup}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act of pulling (applying force)
#: ''He gave the hair a sharp '''pull''' and it came out.''
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: I awakened with a violent '''pull''' upon the ring which was fastened at the top of my box.
# An [[attractive]] [[force]] which causes [[motion]] towards the source
#: ''The spaceship came under the '''pull''' of the gas giant.''
#: ''iron fillings drawn by the '''pull''' of a magnet''
#: ''She took a '''pull''' on her cigarette.''
# Any device meant to be pulled, as a [[lever]], [[knob]], [[handle]], or [[rope]]
#: ''a zipper '''pull'''''
# {{context|slang|dated|lang=en}} Something in one's favour in a comparison or a contest; an advantage; means of influencing.
#: ''In weights the favourite had the '''pull'''.''
# [[appeal|Appeal]] or [[attraction]] (as of a movie star)
# {{context|Internet|uncountable|lang=en}} The situation where a [[client]] sends out a request for data from a [[server]], as in ''server pull'', ''pull technology''
# A journey made by [[row]]ing
#* '''1874''', {{w|Marcus Clarke}}, {{w|For the Term of His Natural Life}} Chapter V
#*: As Blunt had said, the burning ship lay a good twelve miles from the Malabar, and the '''pull''' was a long and a weary one. Once fairly away from the protecting sides of the vessel that had borne them thus far on their dismal journey, the adventurers seemed to have come into a new atmosphere.
# {{context|dated|lang=en}} A [[contest]]; a [[struggle]].
#: ''a wrestling '''pull'''''
#: {{rfquotek|Carew}}
# {{context|obsolete|poetic|lang=en}} Loss or violence suffered.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Two '''pulls''' at once; / His lady banished, and a limb lopped off.
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} The act of drinking.
#: ''to take a pull at a mug of beer''
#: {{rfquotek|Charles Dickens}}
# {{context|cricket|lang=en}} A kind of stroke by which a leg ball is sent to the off side, or an off ball to the side.
#* R. A. Proctor
#*: The '''pull''' is not a legitimate stroke, but bad cricket.
# {{context|golf|lang=en}} A mishit shot which travels in a straight line and (for a right-handed player) left of the intended path.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|act of pulling}} [[tug]], [[yank]]
* {{sense|attractive force}} [[attraction]]
* {{sense|device meant to be pulled}} [[handle]], [[knob]], [[lever]], [[rope]]
* {{sense|influence}} [[influence]], [[sway]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|act of pulling}} [[push]], [[shove]]
* {{sense|attractive force}} [[repulsion]]
* {{sense|device meant to be pulled}} [[button]], [[push]], [[push button]]
* {{sense|influence}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the noun ''pull''}}
* [[on the pull]]
* [[pull cord]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[ring-pull]], [[ring pull]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of pulling}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|tah|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|veto}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ڕاکێشان}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тя́га|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tirón|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ryck|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|attractive force}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|veto}}, {{t+|fi|vetovoima}}, {{t+|fi|imu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|притяже́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|тя́га|f}}, {{t+|ru|влече́ние|n}} ''(emotional)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|attraktion|c}}, {{t|sv|dragkraft|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device meant to be pulled}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vedin}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|influence as means of gaining advantage}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vaikutusvalta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|influence|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|appeal}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetovoima}}, {{t|fi|viehätys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|притяга́тельность|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|dragkraft|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|internet: situation where a client sends out a request for data}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pull}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|journey made by rowing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|soutu}}, {{t|fi|soutumatka}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==Estonian==

===Noun===
{{et-noun}}

# [[bull]]
# [[ox]]

====Declension====
{{rfinfl|et|noun}}

[[Category:et:Cattle]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-pull.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{IPA|/pyl/|lang=fr}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|fr}} '''[[pullover]]'''

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[pullover]]<!--"sweatshirt" is not the same garment-->
#: ''Il fait froid; je vais mettre mon '''pull''''' &mdash; It's cold; I'm going to put on my pullover

[[Category:fr:Clothing]]

[[ar:pull]]
[[az:pull]]
[[ca:pull]]
[[cs:pull]]
[[cy:pull]]
[[da:pull]]
[[de:pull]]
[[et:pull]]
[[el:pull]]
[[es:pull]]
[[eu:pull]]
[[fa:pull]]
[[fr:pull]]
[[gl:pull]]
[[ko:pull]]
[[hy:pull]]
[[hr:pull]]
[[io:pull]]
[[id:pull]]
[[it:pull]]
[[kn:pull]]
[[kk:pull]]
[[ku:pull]]
[[lv:pull]]
[[li:pull]]
[[hu:pull]]
[[mg:pull]]
[[ml:pull]]
[[my:pull]]
[[nl:pull]]
[[ja:pull]]
[[pl:pull]]
[[pt:pull]]
[[ru:pull]]
[[sm:pull]]
[[simple:pull]]
[[fi:pull]]
[[sv:pull]]
[[tl:pull]]
[[ta:pull]]
[[te:pull]]
[[th:pull]]
[[chr:pull]]
[[tr:pull]]
[[vi:pull]]
[[zh:pull]]