{{wikipedia|dab=push}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[pushen#Middle English|pushen, poshen, posson]]'' from {{etyl|frm}} ''[[pousser#Middle French|pousser]]''  (Modern {{fr|-}} ''[[pousser]]'') from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[poulser#Old French|poulser]]'' from {{etyl|la}} ''[[pulsare]]'', frequentative of ''[[pellere]]'' (past participle ''[[pulsus]]'') "to beat, strike". Displaced native {{enm}} ''[[thrucchen#Middle English|thrucchen]]'' "to push" (from {{ang}} ''[[þryccan#Old English|þryccan]]'' "to push"), {{enm}} ''[[scauten#Middle English|scauten]]'' "to push, thrust" (from {{non}} ''[[skota#Old Norse|skota]]''), {{enm}} ''[[schoven#Middle English|schoven]]'' "to push, shove" (from {{ang}} ''[[scofian#Old English|scofian]]''), {{enm}} ''[[schuven#Middle English|schuven]]'' "to shove, push" (from {{ang}} ''[[scufan#Old English|scūfan]]'', ''[[sceofan#Old English|scēofan]]'' "to shove, push, thrust"), {{enm}} ''[[thuden#Middle English|thuden]]'', ''[[thudden#Middle English|thudden]]'' "to push, press, thrust" (from {{ang}} ''[[þydan#Old English|þȳdan]]'', ''[[þyddan#Old English|þyddan]]'' "to thrust, press, push").

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|po͝osh}}, {{IPA|/pʊʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/pUS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-push.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʊʃ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|push|es}}

# {{transitive}} To apply a [[force]] to (an object) such that it moves [[away]] from the person or thing applying the force.
#: ''In his anger he pushed me against the wall and threatened me.''
# {{transitive}} To continually attempt to persuade (a person) into a particular course of action.
# {{transitive}} To continually attempt to promote (a point of view).
#: ''Stop '''pushing''' the issue &mdash; I'm not interested.''
# {{transitive}} To [[promote]] a [[product]] with the intention of [[sell]]ing it.
#: ''They're '''pushing''' that perfume again.''
#: ''There were two men hanging around the school gates today, '''pushing''' drugs.''
# {{context|informal|transitive}} To [[approach]]; to come close to.
#: ''My old car is '''pushing''' 250,000 miles.''
#: ''He's pushing sixty.'' (= ''he's nearly sixty years old'')
# {{intransitive}} To apply a [[force]] to an object such that it moves [[away]] from the person applying the force.
#: ''You need to '''push''' quite hard to get this door open.''
# {{intransitive}} To tense the muscles in the [[abdomen]] in order to [[expel]] its contents.
#: ''During childbirth, there are times when the [[obstetrician]] advises the woman not to '''push'''.''
# {{intransitive}} To continue to attempt to persuade a person into a particular course of action.
# To make a higher [[bid]] at an [[auction]].
# {{poker}} To make an [[all-in]] [[bet]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|transitive: apply a force to (an object) so it moves away}} to [[press]], to [[shove]]
* {{sense|continue to attempt to persuade}} to [[press]], to [[urge]]
* {{sense|continue to attempt to promote (a point of view)}} to [[press]]
* {{sense|promote a product with the intention of selling it}} to [[advertise]], to [[promote]]
* {{sense|come close to}} to [[approach]], to [[near]]
* {{sense|intransitive: apply force to an object so that it moves away}} to [[press]], to [[shove]]
* {{sense|tense the muscles in the abdomen in order to expel its contents}} to [[bear down]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|apply a force to something so it moves away}} to [[draw]], to [[pull]], to [[tug]]

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
<!--"give someone the push-off" is derived from "push off"-->
* [[pedal pushers]]
* [[push-bike]]
* [[push around]]
* [[pushful]]
* [[push in]]<!--jump the queue/line-->
* [[push off]]<!--also imperative-->
{{mid2}}
* [[pushover]]<!--noun-->
* [[push someone's buttons]]
* [[push-up]]
* [[pushy]]
{{bottom2}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transitive: apply a force to (an object) so that it moves away}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|دفع|tr=dáfa3a}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հրել|tr=hrel}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|ধাক্কা দেওয়া|tr=dhakka deoa|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}, {{t|bn|ধাক্কানো|tr=dhakkano|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|empènyer}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|推|tr=tuī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|tlačit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duwen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|työntää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pousser}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|empurrar|xs=Galician}},  {{t|gl|empuxar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|drücken}}, {{t+|de|schieben}}, {{t+|de|stoßen}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|धकेलना|tr=dhakelanā|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tol}}, {{t|hu|megtol}}, {{t+|hu|lök}}
* [[Ido]]: [[pulsar]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|spingere}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|押す|tr=おす, osu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|밀다|tr=milda|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[پاڵ دان]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|pello}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|dytte}}, {{t|no|skubbe}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|scufan|alt=scūfan|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|هل دادن|tr=hol dādan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: [[pchnąć]], [[popchnąć]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|empurrar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|împinge}}, {{t+|ro|apăsa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|толкать|tr=tolkát’}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|толкнуть|tr=tolknút’}} {{pf}}
* [[Samoan]]: {{t|sm|smatgar|xs=Samoan}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|stob|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[potiskati]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|empujar}}
* Swahili: [[kusukuma]]
* Swedish: {{t|sv|skjuta på}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[నెట్టు]] (neTTu), [[తోయు]] (tOyu)
* Thai: {{t-|th|ดัน|tr=dan}},  {{t+|th|กด|tr=gòt}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|دھکیلنا|tr=dhakelanā|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|xô|xs=Vietnamese}},  {{t+|vi|đẩy|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|triuwe|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|continually attempt to persuade (a person)}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pohánět}}
* German: {{t+|de|drängen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[پاڵ پێوه‌نان]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|continually attempt to promote (a point of view)}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[پاڵ پێوه‌نان]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|promote (a product)}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|prosazovat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: apply force to an object so that it moves away}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|tlačit}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pousser}}
* German: {{t+|de|drücken}}, {{t+|de|schieben}}, {{t+|de|stoßen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spingere}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[پاڵ نان]]}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|stob|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: tense the muscles of the abdomen}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|tlačit}}
* German: {{t+|de|drücken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|pujar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(intrans.) continue to attempt to persuade a person into a particular course of action}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|try to skip positions in a queue}}
* German: [[drängeln]], [[sich]] [[vordrängeln]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A short, directed application of [[force]]; an act of pushing.
#: ''Give the door a hard '''push''' if it sticks.''
# An act of tensing the muscles of the abdomen in order to expel its contents.
#: ''One more push and the baby will be out.''
# A [[great]] [[effort]] (to do something).
#: ''Some details got lost in the '''push''' to get the project done.''
#: ''Let's give one last push on our advertising campaign.''
# {{military}} A [[marching]] or [[drill]] [[maneuver]]/[[manoeuvre]] performed by moving a [[formation]] (especially a [[company front]]) [[forward]] or [[toward]] the [[audience]], usually to accompany a dramatic [[climax]] or [[crescendo]] in the music.
# A wager that results in no loss or gain for the bettor as a result of a tie or even score
# {{internet}} {{uncountable}} The situation where a [[server]] sends data to a [[client]] without waiting for a request, as in ''server push'', ''push technology''.

====Derived terms====
* [[give someone the push]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|short, directed application of force; act of pushing}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|ধাক্কা|tr=dhakka|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duw|m}}
* German: [[Schubs]] {{m}}, [[Stoß]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[پاڵ]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|empurrão|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|empujón|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of tensing the muscles of the abdomen in order to expel its contents}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|great effort (to do something)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: marching or drill maneuvre}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:push]]
[[et:push]]
[[el:push]]
[[es:push]]
[[fa:push]]
[[fr:push]]
[[ko:push]]
[[hr:push]]
[[io:push]]
[[it:push]]
[[kk:push]]
[[ku:push]]
[[li:push]]
[[hu:push]]
[[ml:push]]
[[nl:push]]
[[ja:push]]
[[pl:push]]
[[pt:push]]
[[ru:push]]
[[simple:push]]
[[fi:push]]
[[sv:push]]
[[ta:push]]
[[te:push]]
[[th:push]]
[[tr:push]]
[[vi:push]]
[[zh:push]]