==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|head=to [[put]] [[up]]|puts up|putting up|put up}}

# {{transitive}} To place in a high [[location]].
#: ''Please '''put up''' your luggage in the overhead bins.''
# {{transitive}} To [[hang]] or [[mount]].
#: ''Many people '''put up''' messages on their refrigerators.''
# {{transitive|idiomatic}} To [[cajole]] or [[dare]] to do something.
#: ''I think someone '''put''' him '''up''' to it.''
# {{transitive|idiomatic}} To [[store]] away.
#: ''Be sure to '''put up''' the tools when you finish.''
# {{transitive|idiomatic}} To house, [[shelter]], or take in.
#: ''We can '''put''' you '''up''' for the night.''
# {{transitive|idiomatic}} To [[present]], ''especially in'' "put up a fight".
#: ''That last fighter '''put up''' quite a fight.''
#: ''They didn't '''put up''' much resistance.''
# {{transitive}} To [[endure]], [[put up with]],[[tolerate]].
#* '''1621''', Robert Burton, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', II.3.7:
#*: Dionysius of Syracuse, in his exile, was made to stand without dore [...]; he wisely '''put''' it '''up''', and laid the fault where it was, on his own pride and scorn, which in his prosperity he had formerly showed others.

====Usage notes====
* The object in senses 1-5 can come before or after the particle. If it is a pronoun, then it ''must'' come before the particle. 
* In sense 6 the object must always come ''after'' the particle.

====Derived terms====
* [[put up or shut up]]
* [[put up with]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to place in a high location}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nostaa}}
* {{trreq|French}}
* Polish: [[podnosić]] / [[podnieść]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ставить|tr=stávitʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|наве́рх}}
* {{trreq|Spanish}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|koymak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hang or mount}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ripustaa}}, {{t+|fi|kiinnittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cajole}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yllyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to store away}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|paikoilleen|alt=panna paikoilleen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to house, shelter}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|majoittaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|abriter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to present}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|panna pystyyn}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|to put up with|put up with}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (up)]]
[[Category:English simple past forms]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English palindromes]]

[[et:put up]]
[[el:put up]]
[[fr:put up]]
[[it:put up]]
[[kn:put up]]
[[mg:put up]]
[[pl:put up]]
[[sv:put up]]
[[ta:put up]]