{{also|putout|put-out}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|En-uk-to put out.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|baseball}} The [[statistic]] of the number of [[out]]s a [[defensive]] [[player]] directly caused.
#: ''Jones recorded 15 '''put outs''' in the first half of the season.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|baseball statistic}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|eliminació|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Taking [[offense]]; [[indignant]].
#: ''He was '''put out''' at the mere suggestion of misconduct.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|taking offense}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontzet}}, {{t+|nl|verontwaardigd}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vexé}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|satt ut}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|puts out|putting out|put out}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[place]] [[outside]] or [[eject]].
#: ''Don’t forget to '''put out''' the cat.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[produce]].
#: ''The factory '''puts out''' 4000 units each day.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[injure]] a part of the body, especially a [[joint]].
#: ''Don’t '''put out''' your back trying to lift that.''
#: ''Be careful with those scissors, or you'll '''put''' your eye '''out'''!''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[extinguish]] (a [[flame]] or light).
#: ''They worked for days to '''put out''' the brushfire.''
#* '''1898''', {{w|J. Meade Falkner}}, {{w|Moonfleet}} Chapter 3
#*: When I saw the coffin I knew that I was respited, for, as I judged, there was space between it and the wall behind enough to contain my little carcass; and in a second I had '''put out''' the candle, scrambled up the shelves, half-stunned my senses with dashing my head against the roof, and squeezed my body betwixt wall and coffin.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[eliminate]] from a competition.
#* {{quote-journal
|date=October 1, 2011
|author=Tom Fordyce
|title=Rugby World Cup 2011: England 16-12 Scotland
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/rugby_union/15124512.stm
|page=
|passage=England stumbled into the World Cup quarter-finals and almost certainly '''put Scotland out''' after an error-ridden victory at Eden Park.}}
# {{lb|en|slang|intransitive}} To [[consent]] to [[sex]].
#* '''1991''', R S Perinbanayagam, ''Discursive Acts''
#*: He had been going out with this girl &mdash; I think her name was Karol &mdash; for a couple of months... and she wouldn't '''put out''' for him... kept on saying no.
#* '''2005''', William Heffernan, ''A Time Gone By''
#*: This Grosso dated this woman a couple of times, and then, when she wouldn't '''put out''' for him, he beat her up and forced her.
# {{lb|en|baseball}} To cause a player on the offense to be [[out]], especially of men on [[base]].
# {{lb|en|cricket}} To cause a [[batsman]] (a player on the batting team) to be [[dismissed]] or [[out]].
# To sail away, to depart.
#* '''about 1900''', O. Henry, ''[[s:The Missing Chord|The Missing Chord]]''
#*: Along about Tuesday Uncle Cal '''put out''' for San Antone on the last wagonload of wool.

====Usage notes====
* The object in all transitive senses can come before or after the particle. If it is a pronoun, then it ''must'' come before the particle.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|output}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|place outside or eject}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|buitenzetten}}, {{t+|nl|uitwerpen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|eligi}}, {{t|eo|forigi}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laittaa ulos}}
* German: {{t|de|rausbringen}}, {{t|de|raussetzen}}, {{t|de|rauswerfen}}
*: Old High German: {{t|goh|úzón}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|sette ut}}, {{t|no|slippe ut}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|ūtian}}, {{t|ang|geūtian}}
* Old Frisian: {{t|ofs|útia}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|[[colocar]]/[[botar]]/[[pôr]] [[para]] [[fora]]}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выкла́дывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́ложить|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sacar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|produce}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَنْتَجَ}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|制造|tr=zhìzào|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|生產|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|生产|tr=shēngchǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|produceren}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|produkti}}, {{t|eo|eligi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuottaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|produire}}
* German: {{t+|de|produzieren}}, {{t+|de|herstellen}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|生産|tr=せいさんする, seisan-surú|alt=生産する|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|lage}}, {{t+|no|produsere}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|produzir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|производи́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|произвести́|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|injure a joint in the body}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kwetsen}}, {{t+|nl|blesseren}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|misfleksi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vahingoittaa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выви́хивать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́вихнуть|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extinguish}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|astingu}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|apagar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|熄滅|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|熄灭|tr=xīmiè|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|撲滅|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|扑灭|tr=pūmiè|sc=Hani}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|stotur}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|slukke}}
* Dutch: {{qualifier|fire}} {{t+|nl|blussen}}, {{qualifier|light, candle}} {{t+|nl|uitdoen}}, {{t+|nl|doven}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|estingi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sammuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|éteindre}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|distudâ}}
* German: {{t+|de|löschen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σβήνω}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|estinguere}}, {{t+|it|spegnere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|消す|tr=けす, kesu|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|slokke}}, {{t|no|slukke}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|astudar}}, {{t+|oc|esténher}}, {{t|oc|esténger}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wygaszać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apagar}}, {{t+|pt|extinguir}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|stinge}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|stüder}}, {{t|rm|stüzzer}}, {{t|rm|stidar}}, {{t|rm|stizar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|туши́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|потуши́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|гаси́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|погаси́ть|pf}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|studai}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|astutari}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|extinguir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|consent to sex}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|toegeven}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|konsenti}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|antaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|écarter les cuisses}}
* German: {{t+|de|ranlassen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dawać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|dać|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dar}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|ru|дава́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|дать|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|дати|tr=dati}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|vermek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|output}}

[[Category:English idioms]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English verb forms using redundant wikisyntax]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (out)]]
[[Category:English verb simple past forms]]
[[Category:English verb forms using redundant wikisyntax]]
[[Category:en:Sex]]

[[ca:put out]]
[[et:put out]]
[[el:put out]]
[[eo:put out]]
[[fr:put out]]
[[it:put out]]
[[ku:put out]]
[[mg:put out]]
[[pl:put out]]
[[ru:put out]]
[[fi:put out]]
[[sv:put out]]
[[ta:put out]]
[[te:put out]]
[[tr:put out]]
[[zh:put out]]