{{also|putdown|put-down}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From [[put]] + [[down]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|puts down|putting down|put down}}

# {{&lit|put|down|lang=en}}
#: ''Why don't you '''put down''' your briefcase and stay awhile?''
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 1
#*: "There he is!" cried Mrs. Flanders, coming round the rock and covering the whole space of the beach in a few seconds. "What has he got hold of? '''Put it down''', Jacob! Drop it this moment!
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To insult, [[belittle]], or [[demean]].
#: ''They frequently '''put down''' their little sister for walking slowly.''
#* '''1965''', {{w|The Who}}, {{w|My Generation}}
#*: People try to '''put us down''' / Just because we get around.
# {{lb|en|of money as deposit}} To pay.
#: ''We '''put down''' a $1,000 deposit.''
# To [[halt]], eliminate, stop, or [[squelch]], often by force.
#: ''The government quickly '''put down''' the insurrection.''
#* '''22 March 2012''', Scott Tobias, AV Club ''The Hunger Games''[http://www.avclub.com/articles/the-hunger-games,71293/]
#*: For the 75 years since a district rebellion was '''put down''', The Games have existed as an assertion of the Capital’s power, a winner-take-all contest that touts heroism and sacrifice—participants are called “tributes”— while pitting the districts against each other.
# {{lb|en|euphemistic}} To [[euthanize]] (an animal).
#: ''Rex was in so much pain, they had to '''put''' him '''down'''.''
#* '''2016''', "[http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-tees-37708831 Dog found buried alive in Redcar with nail in head]", BBC:
#*: {{quote|en|A couple walking in Kirkleatham Woods, Redcar, heard whimpering and found the terrier-type animal in a mound of earth at about midday. It was rushed to a vet but its injuries were so serious it had to be '''put down'''.}}
# To [[write]] (something).
#: '''''Put down''' the first thing you think of on this piece of paper.''
# {{lb|en|of a telephone}} To terminate a call; to [[hang up]].
#: ''Don't '''put''' the phone '''down'''. I want a quick word with him,too.''
# To add a name to a [[list]].
#: ''I've '''put''' myself '''down''' for the new Spanish conversation course.''
# To make [[prices]], or [[taxes]], [[lower]].
#: ''BP are '''putting''' petrol and diesel '''down''' in what could be the start of a price war.''
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To place a baby somewhere to sleep.
#: ''I had just '''put''' Mary '''down''' when you rang. So now she's crying again.''
# {{lb|en|idiomatic|of an aircraft}} To [[land]].
#: ''The pilot managed to '''put down''' in a nearby farm field.''
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To [[drop off|drop someone off]], or let them out of a vehicle.
#: ''The taxi '''put''' him '''down''' outside the hotel.''
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To [[cease]], temporarily or permanently, [[read]]ing (a book).
#: ''I was unable to '''put down''' ''The Stand'': it was that exciting.''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|add a name to a list}} {{l|en|register}}
* {{sense|land an aircraft}} {{l|en|touch down}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|set down, stop carrying}}
* Biatah Bidayuh: {{t|bth|pasan}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|擺低|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|摆低|tr=baai2 dai1|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|放低|tr=fong3 dai1|sc=Hani}}
*: Hakka: {{t|hak|放下|tr=piong-hâ|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|放下|tr=fàngxià|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t|nan|放下|tr=pàng-hē|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poser}}, {{t+|fr|déposer}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|depoze}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|내려놓다}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|meletakkan}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|așeza}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ста́вить|impf}}, {{t+|ru|поста́вить|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|belittle, or demean}}
* French: {{t+|fr|médire}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatīkai}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pay a deposit}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déposer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|halt, eliminate, often by force}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mater}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|administer euthanasia to an animal}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lopettaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|endormir}}
* German: {{t+|de|einschläfern}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbattere}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|усыпля́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|усыпи́ть|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|terminate a telephone conversation}}
* French: {{t+|fr|reposer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|add a name to a list}}
* French: {{t+|fr|inscrire}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|drop someone off}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déposer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cease reading a document}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|letesz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|put down as}}
* {{l|en|put down for}}
* {{l|en|put down to}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|put up}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{alternative spelling of|put-down|lang=en}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (down)]]
[[Category:en:Death]]