{{also|putaway}}
==English==

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb|head=[[put]] [[away]]}}

#{{lb|en|transitive}} To [[place]] [[out of the way]], [[clean up]].
#:{{ux|en|Please '''put away''' the tools when you {{nowrap|are finished.}}&emsp; {{nowrap|I '''put''' the clothes '''away''' so as to neaten the room.}}}}
#*{{RQ:RJfrs AmtrPqr|1|030}}
#*:They burned the old gun that used to stand in the dark corner up in the garret, close to the stuffed fox that always grinned so fiercely. Perhaps the reason why he seemed in such a ghastly rage was that he did not come by his death fairly. Otherwise his pelt would not have been so perfect. And why else was he '''put away''' up there out of sight?&mdash;and so magnificent a brush as he had too.
#{{lb|en|transitive}} To [[store]], add to one's stores for later use.
#:{{ux|en|Preparing for the worst, they '''put away''' food for the winter.}}
#{{lb|en|transitive|colloquial}} To [[consume]] (food or drink), especially in large quantities.
#:{{ux|en|You wouldn't think such a small person could '''put away''' so much food.}}
#{{lb|en|transitive}} To send (someone) to [[prison]].
#:{{ux|en|He was convicted and they '''put''' him '''away''' for 10 years.}}
#{{lb|en|transitive|now|_|formal|_|or|_|literary}} To [[discard]], divest oneself of.
#*'''1611''', The Bible (Authorized Version), {{w|First Epistle to the Corinthians|1&nbsp;Corinthians}} XIII.11:
#*:When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I '''put away''' childish things.
#{{lb|en|obsolete|transitive}} To [[fend off]], [[deflect]]; to [[dismiss]].
#*{{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|6.1|2|IV|j}}:
#*:Also he told kynge Arthur that he shold mysse hym / yet had ye leuer than al your landes to haue me ageyne / A sayd the kynge / syn ye knowe of your aduenture puruey for hit / and '''put awey''' by your craftes that mysauenture / Nay said Merlyn it wylle not be / soo he departed from the kynge
<!--Prior quote:#*:A sayd the kynge, syn ye knowe of your aduenture puruey for hit, and '''put awey''' by your craftes that mysauenture.-->
#{{lb|en|archaic|transitive}} To [[divorce]].
#*'''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', {{w|Gospel of Mark|Mark}} X:
#*:And the pharyses cam and axed hym a question: whether it were laufull for a man to '''putt awaye''' hys wyfe.
#{{lb|en|baseball}} To [[strike out]] a [[batter]].
#{{lb|en|baseball}} To catch a [[fly ball]] or [[tag out]] a [[baserunner]].
#{{lb|en|baseball}} To take a large lead in a game.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to place out of the way}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|收拾|tr=shōushí|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|paikoilleen|alt=panna paikoilleen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ranger}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|wegräumen}}, {{t+|de|weglegen}}, {{t+|de|aufräumen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|片付ける|tr=かたづける, katazukeru|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|しまう|tr=shimau|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guardar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|убирать|impf|tr=ubirátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|убрать|pf|tr=ubrátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to store for later use}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|panna}}, [[laittaa#Finnish|laittaa]] + {{t|fi|talteen}}, {{t|fi|syrjään}}, {{t|fi|sivuun}}, {{t|fi|säästöön}} {{qualifier|any combination will do}}, {{t+|fi|säästää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|weglegen}}, {{t|de|zurücklegen }}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|estocar}}, {{t+|pt|armazenar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consume in large quantities}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ahmia}}, {{t+|fi|törsätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|wegzetten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|formeti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
[[pack away]]

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (away)]]

[[de:put away]]
[[et:put away]]
[[fr:put away]]
[[hu:put away]]
[[mg:put away]]
[[ml:put away]]
[[pl:put away]]