==English==

===Etymology===
From {{prefix|en|pycno-}}.
{{etystub|en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|organic chemistry}} Any of a group of [[flavonoid]]s extracted from the [[bark]] of [[pine]] trees, especially [[proanthocyanidin]]s.
#* '''1981''', J. L. Beal, ''Natural products as medicinal agents'':
#*: On the other hand, '''pycnogenols''', widely found in old empirical antiscorbutic remedies, seem more appropriate...
#* '''1987''', Masquelier; Jack, "US Patent 4,698,360 - Plant extract with a proanthocyanidins content as therapeutic agent having radical scavenger effect and use thereof":
#*: Proanthocyanidins are included in the '''pycnogenols''', a plant polyphenol chemical group, whose physical, chemical and biological properties have been studied in numerous works (see more especially J. Masquelier, J. Michaud, J. Laparra, and M. C. Dumon, Internat. J. Vit. Nutr. Res. 1979, 49, 307-311).
#* '''1993''', Hans J. Kugler, David Steinman, ''Life extenders and memory boosters!'':
#*: He has found that '''pycnogenols''' not only prevent free radical damage to internal organs but also help prevent skin wrinkling.
#* '''1994''', Lerner; Sheldon, "US Patent 5,470,874 - Ascorbic acid and proanthocyanidine composition for topical application to human skin":
#*: The second embodiment of the invention includes the pine bark extract known as proanthocyanidine, also known as '''pycnogenol'''.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1997|author=Fereidoon Shahidi|title=Natural antioxidants: chemistry, health effects, and applications|page=154|passage=Masquelier (34,35) was perhaps one of the first to recognize the potential of this class of compounds, referring to them as '''pycnogenols''' or proanthocyanidols.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1998|author=Joe M. Elrod|title=Supplements for Fibromyalgia|page=26|passage=Human trials have shown that the flavonoids of '''pycnogenol''' can prevent peripheral hemorrhage, swelling of legs due to water retention, diabetic retinopathy, and high blood pressure.}}
#* '''1999''', Corinne T. Netzer, ''Corrine T. Netzer's Big Book of Miracle Cures'':
#*: As study after study has shown, nutrients such as grape seed extract and '''pycnogenols''' are great all-around helpers for capillaries, veins, and arteries.
#* '''1999''', Mary Ann Liebert, ''Alternative & complementary therapies'', ''volume 5'':
#*: ...vitamin A (2500 international units [IU]); vitamin C (250 mg); pantothenic acid (200 mg); zinc (10 mg); '''pycnogenols''' (5 mg); stinging nettle ( 1 00 mg); cayenne (20 mg).
#* '''2001''', Medical Economics Company, David Rorvik, Sheldon Saul Hendler, ''PDR for Nutritional Supplements'', page 387:
#*: The extent of the antioxidant potential of '''pycnogenol''' in vivo is unclear.
#* '''2004''', James J. Gormley, Shari Lieberman, ''User's Guide to Brain-Boosting Nutrients'', page 55:
#*: Masquelier developed a process to extract these compounds — both from pine bark (in 1951) and from grape seeds (1970). He used the term '''pycnogenol''' to refer to this whole family of OPCs.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2004|author=R. A. S. Hemat|title=Orthomolecularism: Principles And Practice|page=371|passage=As histidine decarboxylase inhibitors, '''pycnogenols''' lower the histamine level in the aortic endothelium...}}
#* '''2005''', Midori Hiramatsu, Toshikazu Yoshikawa, Lester Packer, ''Molecular Interventions in Lifestyle Related Diseases'', page 97:
#*: This may be due to the phenomenon in which '''pycnogenol''' at high concentrations blocks the filter channels.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2008|author=Noboru Motohashi|title=Bioactive Heterocycles V: Flavonoids and Anthocyanins in Plants, and Latest Bioactive Heterocycles|page=35|passage=Among three fractions of '''pycnogenol''', fraction 3 (oligomeric procyanidins) significantly enhanced the potent EDR activity.}}
# An [[antioxidant]] [[dietary supplement]] containing such an extract.

====Synonyms====
* [[OPC]]
* [[proanthocyanidin]]

===See also===
* [[grape seed extract]]
* {{pedia|Proanthocyanidin}}
* {{pedialite|Grape seed extract}}