<!--{{also|覀}} may be replaced by zh-forms -->
{{also|四|酉|襾}}

==Translingual==
{{stroke order|type=animate}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[㢴]] (based on the small seal script form of the character)

===Etymology===
{{Han etyl}}
{{liushu|p}}: a [[bag]] or [[basket]], borrowed for phonetic value. Compare [[東]] (originally "[[bundle]]", now "[[east]]"). Traditionally explained as a pictogram of a bird settling into its nest, which by analogy with the setting of the sun means "west". This etymology has been disputed<ref>[http://www.chineseetymology.org/CharacterEtymology.aspx?characterInput=%E8%A5%BF Chinese Etymology], Richard Sears</ref> but Sagart stands by it.<ref>Laurent Sagart. The Chinese names of the four directions. Journal of the American Oriental Society, 2004, 124 (1), pp.69-76.</ref>

===Han character===
{{Han char|rn=146|rad=西|as=00|sn=6|four=10600|canj=MCW}}

====Derived characters====
* [[Index:Chinese_radical/西]]
* [[𪎢]]

====References====
* {{Han ref|kx=1128.100|dkj=34763|dj=1595.190|hdz=42805.020|uh=897F|ud=35199|bh=A6E8|bd=42728}}
<references/>

----

==Chinese==
{{zh-forms}}

===Pronunciation===
{{zh-pron
|m=xī
|ma=y
|c=sai1
|h=pfs=sî
|mn=sai/se/si
|mn_note=sai - colloquial; se - literary; si - common
|mn-t=sai1
|w=1xi
|mc=y
|oc=y
|cat=n}}

===Noun===
{{zh-noun}}

# [[west]], [[western]]

====Coordinate terms====
* {{zh-l|東/东}}
* {{zh-l|南}}
* {{zh-l|北}}

====Compounds====
{{der-top}}
(''headwords'')
* [[西安]] (Xī'ān)
* [[西班牙]] (Xībānyá)
* [[西半球]] (Xībànqiú)
* [[西北]] (xīběi)
* [[西边]] (xībiān)
* [[西邊兒]], [[西边儿]] (xībiānr)
* [[西部]] (xībù)
* [[西餐]] (xīcān)
* [[西點]], [[西点]] (Xīdiǎn)
* [[西方]] (xīfāng)
* [[西非]] (Xīfēi)
* [[西風]], [[西风]] (xīfēng)
* [[西鳳酒]], [[西凤酒]] (Xīfèngjiǔ)
* [[西服]] (xīfú)
* [[西瓜]] (xīguā)
* [[西紅柿]], [[西红柿]] (xīhóngshì)
* [[西葫蘆]], [[西葫芦]] (xīhúlu)
* [[西化]] (xīhuà)
* [[西經]], [[西经]] (xījīng)
* [[西曆]], [[西历]] (xīlì)
* [[西米]] (xīmǐ)
* [[西面]] (xīmiàn)
* [[西南]] (xīnán)
* [[西歐]], [[西欧]] (Xī Oū)
* [[西人]] (xīrén)
* [[西薩摩亞]], [[西萨摩亚]] (Xī Sàmóyà)
* [[西曬]], [[西晒]] (xīshài)
* [[西施]] (Xī Shī)
* [[西式]] (xīshì)
* [[西天]] (Xītiān)
* [[西頭]], [[西头]] (xītóu)
{{der-mid}}
* [[西文]] (xīwén)
* [[西西里]] (Xīxīlǐ)
* [[西西里島]], [[西西里岛]] (Xīxīlǐdǎo)
* [[西学]], [[西學]] (Xīxué)
* [[西洋]] (xīyáng)
* [[西洋畫]], [[西洋画]] (xīyánghuà)
* [[西洋景]] (xīyángjǐng)
* [[西洋參]], [[西洋参]] (xīyángshēn)
* [[西藥]], [[西药]] (xīyào)
* [[西醫]], [[西医]] (xīyī)
* [[西遊記]], [[西游记]] (Xīyóu Jì)
* [[西語]], [[西语]] (xīyǔ)
* [[西域]] (Xīyù)
* [[西樂]], [[西乐]] (xīyué)
* [[西元]] (xīyuán)
* [[西裝]], [[西装]] (xīzhuāng)
* [[檳榔西施]], [[槟榔西施]] (bīnláng xīshī)

(''tailwords'')
* [[巴西]] (Bāxī)
* [[病老歸西]], [[病老归西]] (bìnglǎoguīxī)
* [[不中不西]] (bùzhōngbùxī)
* [[沉西]] (chénxī)
* [[臭東西]], [[臭东西]] (chòudōngxi)
* [[東西]], [[东西]] (dōngxi)

(''other'')
* [[抱痛西河]] (bàotòngxīhé)
* [[北大西洋]] (Běi Dàxī Yáng)
* [[賓西法尼亞]], [[宾西法尼亚]] (Bīnxīfǎníyà)
* [[玻利尼西亞]], [[玻利尼西亚]] (Bōlìníxīyà)
* [[拆穿西洋鏡]], [[拆穿西洋镜]] (chāichuān xīyángjìng)
* [[拆東牆補西牆]], [[拆东墙补西墙]] (chāidōngqiáng bǔxīqiáng)
* [[拆西補東]], [[拆西补东]] (chāixībǔdōng)
* [[法西斯]] (fǎxīsī)
* [[新西蘭]], [[新西兰]] (Xīnxīlán)
{{der-bottom}}

====Usage notes====
西 is the 146th radical of the Chinese dictionary. In its few compounds it most often appears at the top in the form 覀 as in [[覄]]. It is important to distinguish it from [[襾]] and [[酉]].

{{zh-cat|Beginning|Compass points}}

----

==Japanese==

===Kanji===
{{ja-kanji|grade=2|rs=西00}}

====Readings====
* {{ja-readings|goon=[[さい]] (sai)|kanon=[[せい]] (sei)|kun=[[にし]] (nishi)}}

====Compounds====
{{top2}}
* [[西欧]] ([[せいおう]], ''[[Seiō]]''): [[Western Europe]]
* [[西瓜]] ([[すいか]], ''[[suika]]''): [[watermelon]]
* [[西経]] ([[せいけい]], ''[[seikei]]''): [[west]] [[longitude]]
* [[西の対]] ([[にしのたい]], ''[[nishi no tai]]'')
{{mid2}}
* [[西洋]] ([[せいよう]], ''[[seiyō]]''): the [[West]], [[western]] [[countries]]
* [[西暦]] ([[せいれき]], ''[[seireki]]''): [[western]] [[calendar]]
* {{l|ja|関西|tr=[[かんさい]], Kansai}}
{{bottom}}

====Usage notes====
''nishi'' may be used as separate word. ''sei'', on the other hand, is used mainly in compounds, like [[西南]] (せいなん ''seinan'') - south west (literally "west south").

{{ja-kanjitab|にし|yomi=k}}

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|にし}}

# the [[west]]

===Proper noun===
{{ja-pos|にし|proper}}

# {{surname|lang=ja|sort=にし}}

[[Category:1000 Japanese basic words|にし]]

----

==Korean==

===Hanja===
{{ko-hanja|hangeul=서|rv=seo|mr=sŏ|y=se|eumhun=서녘|ehrv=seonyeok|ehmr=sŏnyŏk|ehy=senyekh}}
* '''Examples'''
** 서부 [[西部]] (seobu) western (part)

# {{defn|lang=ko|sort=西00}}

----

==Okinawan==
{{attention|ryu}}

===Kanji===
{{head|ryu|kanji|hiragana|いり|romaji|iri|sc=Jpan}}

===Noun===
{{head|ryu|noun|hiragana|いり|romaji|iri}}
# the [[West]]

====Compounds====
{{top2}}
* [[西風]] ([[いりかじ]], ''[[irikazi]]''): [[west wind]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Vietnamese==

===Han character===
{{vi-hantu|tây, sài|rs=西00}}
* Sơn Tây 山西
* Tây Sơn 西山
* Sài Gòn 西貢

# {{defn|lang=vi|sort=西00}}

====Readings====
* Nôm: tây, tê
* [[phía tây]] : 費西

====References====
* Thiều Chửu : Hán Việt Tự Điển Hà Nội 1942
* Trần Văn Chánh: Từ Điển Hán Việt NXB Trẻ, Ho Chi Minh Ville, 1999
* Vũ Văn Kính: Đại Tự Điển Chữ Nôm , NXB Văn Nghệ, Ho Chi Minh Ville, 1999

[[Category:CJKV radicals| ]]

[[es:西]]
[[fr:西]]
[[ko:西]]
[[ku:西]]
[[lo:西]]
[[lt:西]]
[[li:西]]
[[hu:西]]
[[mg:西]]
[[ms:西]]
[[ja:西]]
[[no:西]]
[[pl:西]]
[[pt:西]]
[[ro:西]]
[[ru:西]]
[[sv:西]]
[[ta:西]]
[[th:西]]
[[chr:西]]
[[uk:西]]
[[vi:西]]
[[zh:西]]