{{also|-safe}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
{{rank|board|associated|worse|977|safe|main|q|greatly}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} < {{etyl|fro}} {{term|lang=fro|sauf}} < {{etyl|la}} {{term|lang=la|salvus||whole, safe}}, orig. *{{term|lang=la||sarvus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/seIf/}}
* {{IPA|/seɪf/}}
* {{audio|en-us-safe.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪf}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|saf|er}}

# Not in [[danger]]; free from [[harm]]'s reach.
#: ''You’ll be '''safe''' here.''
# Free from risk; [[harmless]], [[riskless]].
#: ''It’s '''safe''' to eat this.''
#: ''If you push it to the limit, safety is not guaranteed.
# Providing [[protection]] from [[danger]]; providing [[shelter]].
#: ''We have to find a '''safe''' spot, where we can hide out until this is over.''
# {{baseball}} When a batter successfully reaches [[first base]], or when a [[baserunner]] successfully advances to the next [[base]] or returns to the base he last occupied; not [[out]].
#: ''The pitcher attempted to pick off the runner at first, but he was '''safe'''.''
# Properly secured; [[secure]].
#: ''The documents are '''safe'''.''
# {{slang}} Describing something [[wicked]] - [[cool]] - [[awesome]] - [[respectable]]
#: ''Slang/modern expression for describing nouns or verbs.
#* A regular term of approbation, non SAE. Equivalent of [[smart]], good looking, etc. (origions unknown) 1978 ''A dictionary of South African English. Edited Jean Branford. Oxford.''
#* '''SAFE''', Something is genuinely good, an agreement, a greeting. Safe can be used in many contexts whether to say thank you for something, to agree with something, another way of saying hello. Safe is a very versatile word in this sense. It is very often used by the younger generation of people.

====Synonyms====
* [[harmless]], [[riskless]]
* [[secure]]

====Antonyms====
* [[unsafe]]
* [[dangerous]]
* [[harmful]]
* [[insecure]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not in danger}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|أمين|tr='amiin}}, {{t-|ar|سالم|tr=saalim}}, {{t|ar|آمن|tr='aamin}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ապահով|tr=apahov}}, {{t-|hy|անվտանգ|tr=anvtang}}
* [[Bavarian]]: {{tø|bar|Sichar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|安全|tr=ānquán|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veilig}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvallinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sauf}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|უვნებელი|tr=uvnebeli|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|sicher}}, {{t|de|gefahrlos}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ασφαλής}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|biztonságos}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|安全な|tr=あんぜんな, anzenna}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ساغ|tr=sagh|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sikker}}, {{t-|no|trygg}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezpieczny|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|безопасный|tr=bezopásnyj}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sàbhailte|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[varen]] {{m}}, [[varna]] {{f}}, [[varno]] {{n}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|säker}}, {{t+|sv|trygg}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|ligtas|xs=Tagalog}}
* Welsh: [[diogel]]
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t|fy|feilich|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|free from risk}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|անվտանգ|tr=anvtang}}, {{t+|hy|ապահով|tr=apahov}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|安全|tr=ānquán|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|bezpečný|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veilig}}, {{t-|nl|ongevaarlijk}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvallinen}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|საიმედო|tr=saimedo|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|sicher}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ασφαλής}},  {{t|el|ακίνδυνος}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|biztonságos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[安全な]]}} ({{Jpan|[[あんぜんな]]}}, anzenna)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|ساغ|tr=sagh|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sikker}}, {{t-|no|trygg}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezpieczny|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|безопасный|tr=bezopásnyj}}
* Slovene: [[varen]] {{m}}, [[varna]] {{f}}, [[varno]] {{n}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
* Welsh: [[diogel]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|providing protection from danger}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ապահով|tr=apahov}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|安全|tr=ānquán|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veilig}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvallinen}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|უსაფრთხო|tr=usap'rt'xo|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|sicher}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|biztonságos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[安全な]]}} ({{Jpan|[[あんぜんな]]}}, anzenna)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|trygg}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezpieczny|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|безопасный|tr=bezopásnyj}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dìonach|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[varen]] {{m}}, [[varna]] {{f}}, [[varno]] {{n}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
* Welsh: [[diogel]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|properly secured}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ապահով|tr=apahov}}
* Dutch: [[veilig]], [[zekergesteld]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|turvassa}}, {{t+|fi|tallessa}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დაცული|tr=dac'uli|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|sicher}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|biztonságos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sikker}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezpieczny|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|безопасный|tr=bezopásnyj}}
* Slovene: [[varen]] {{m}}, [[varna]] {{f}}, [[varno]] {{n}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
* Welsh: [[diogel]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|describing something wicked - cool - awesome}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[veiliggesteld]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[క్షేమం]] (kshaemaM), భద్రం (bhadraM), [[పదిలం]] (padilaM), పైలం (pailaM)
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[سليم]]}} (saliim)
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[sauf]], [[sûr]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[aman]], [[selamat]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[salve]], [[secur]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[sicuro]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[안전한]] (anjeonhan)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[salvo]], [[seguro]], [[certo]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[salvo]], [[seguro]]
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[säker]]
* {{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[sefik]], [[neriskodik]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A box, usually made of metal, in which valuables can be locked for [[safekeeping]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A box, usually made of metal, in which valuables can be locked for safekeeping}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|sef|m|alt=sȅf}}, {{t-|hr|trezor|m|alt=trèzōr}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|trezor|m}}, {{t-|cs|sejf|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kluis|f}}, {{t+|nl|safe|f}}
* Finnish: [[kassakaappi]]
* French: {{t+|fr|coffre-fort|m}}
* Georgian: {[t|ka|სეიფი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Tresor|m}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|כספת|kasefet}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[cassa forte]], [[coffro]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[金庫]] ([[きんこ]], kinko)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|safe|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|cofre|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сейф|m|tr=s'ejf}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|sef|m}}
* Spanish: [[caja fuerte]] {{f}}, [[cofre]] {{m}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|uganda|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[kassaskåp]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kasa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[Coolgardie safe]]
* [[safeguard]]
* [[safekeeping]]
* [[better safe than sorry]]

===See also===
* [[save]]
* [[safety]]

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:safe]]
[[de:safe]]
[[et:safe]]
[[el:safe]]
[[es:safe]]
[[fa:safe]]
[[fr:safe]]
[[ko:safe]]
[[io:safe]]
[[it:safe]]
[[kn:safe]]
[[ka:safe]]
[[kk:safe]]
[[sw:safe]]
[[ku:safe]]
[[lo:safe]]
[[lt:safe]]
[[hu:safe]]
[[ml:safe]]
[[my:safe]]
[[nl:safe]]
[[ja:safe]]
[[pl:safe]]
[[ro:safe]]
[[ru:safe]]
[[simple:safe]]
[[fi:safe]]
[[sv:safe]]
[[ta:safe]]
[[te:safe]]
[[th:safe]]
[[tr:safe]]
[[uk:safe]]
[[vi:safe]]
[[zh:safe]]