==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|salinise}} {{qualifier|UK}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈsælɪnaɪz/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|salinizes|salinizing|salinized|salinized}}

# {{lb|en|ambitransitive}} [[become|Become]] or [[render]] [[salty]] or [[saltier]].
#* '''1920''', Henry Asbury Christian & James Mackenzie, ''The Oxford Medicine'', volume 4, part 3, [http://books.google.com/books?id=CqEwAAAAIAAJ&q=%22salinized+drinking%22&dq=%22salinized+drinking%22&as_brr=0&pgis=1 p21] (Oxford University Press, American branch)
#*: '''Salinized''' drinking water probably is the best insurance that the men will take the salt during the working hours of the day. A study from the Inland Steel Company<sup>56</sup>, in which a section of steel workers, 3,000 men, were given '''salinized''' drinking water, 0·1 per cent., showed good results as compared with the control group.
#* '''1995''', Heddwyn Jones, ''Plant Gene Transfer and Expression Protocols'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=D72kzY_4bvkC&pg=PA328&dq=salinize&sig=vabPdASnBQWbhcDJ7RsLXr6YclY p328] ([http://www.humanapress.com/index.php?option=com_bookdetails&task=bookdetails&product_code=0-89603-328-7&category=books Humana Press]; ISBN 0896033287 (10), ISBN 978-0896033283 (13))
#*: 2. Place the pipets in a drying oven at 180°C. Inject 100 μL of tributylchlorosilane (TBCS) through a port in the top of the oven, and leave to '''salinize''' for 30 min. Allow the fumes to disperse, before removing the pipets. ''Caution:'' TBCS is harmful, and this procedure should be carried out in a fume hood. Take other precautions as local safety rules require.
#* '''1997''', Stanley Desmond Smith, Jay Ennis Anderson, and Russell K. Monson, ''Physiological Ecology of North American Desert Plants'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=JLHgAxaDpIAC&pg=PA225&dq=salinize&sig=JKn1Xb2tE10Nlw1oJHjiWEuV02Q p225] ([http://www.springer.com/uk/home?SGWID=3-102-0-0-0 Springer]; ISBN 3540531130 (10), ISBN 978-3540531135 (13))
#*: The success of ''Tamarix'' relates to its ability, as a phreatophyte, to grow rapidly under mesophytic riparian conditions, but then, as a deciduous salt-pumping shrub, to '''salinize''' the floodplain ecosystems which it invades.
#* '''2004''', Dr Michael Mayerfeld Bell & Michael S. Carolan, ''An Invitation to Environmental Sociology'' (Second Edition), [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=yVydhTcadswC&pg=PA14&dq=salinize&sig=X385tv4eRqrDmyFRel6yRT9LzLs p14] ([http://www.sagepub.com/booksProdDesc.nav?prodId=Book225740 Pine Forge Press (SAGE Publications)]; ISBN 0761987754 (10), ISBN 978-0761987758 (13))
#*: Soil erosion is only one of many serious threats to farmland. Much of the twentieth century’s gains in crop production was due to irrigation. But irrigation can also '''salinize''' soils. Because most irrigation occurs in parched regions, the abundant sunlight of dry climates evaporates much of the water away, leaving salts behind.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|become or render salty or saltier}}
* French: {{t+|fr|saliniser}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|saliniza}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|salinizar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|desalinize}}
* {{l|en|saline}}
* {{l|en|salinization}}

[[ku:salinize]]