==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|salti}}, equivalent to {{suffix|en|salt|y}}.

Compare {{cog|stq|soaltig|t=salty}}, {{cog|fy|sâltich|t=salty}}, {{cog|nl|zoutig|t=salty}}, {{cog|nds-de|soltig|t=salty}}, {{cog|de|salzig|t=salty}}.

{{sense|coarse; irritated, annoyed}} Referencing the sharp, 'spicy' flavor of salt. 
{{sense|indignant}} Perhaps implying the person is a crybaby, shedding salty tears.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈsɒl.ti/}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-salty.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɒlti}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Tasting of [[salt]].
#* '''2018''' May 16, Adam Rogers, ''[[:w:Wired (magazine)|Wired]]'', "[https://www.wired.com/story/the-fundamental-nihilism-of-yanny-vs-laurel/ The Fundamental Nihilism of Yanny vs. Laurel]":
#*: A few types of molecules get sensed by receptors on the tongue. Protons coming off of [[acid]]s ping receptors for "[[sour]]." [[sugar|Sugars]] get received as "[[sweet]]." [[bitter|Bitter]], '''salty''', and the [[proteinaceous]] flavor [[umami]] all set off their own neural cascades.
# Containing [[salt]].
#* '''1957''', ''Americas (English Ed.)'':
#*: At Zipaquirá, the '''salty''' ore is taken from the mine in chunks, then thrown into large tanks of water, where the salt is dissolved out. The resulting brine is drawn off into pipelines, containers, or tank trucks and sold {{...}}
#* '''2008''', Günter Grass (original author), Michael Henry Heim (translator), ''Peeling the Onion'', Houghton Mifflin Harcourt ({{ISBN|9780156035347}}), page 223:
#*: My job was to couple the dumpers, full or empty, then uncouple them at the main shaft, and to open and close the weather door on the trip to the roof galleries, where the '''salty''' ore was dynamited and broken down.
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} Coarse, provocative, earthy; said of language.
#* '''1962''', William Henry Davenport, ''The Good Physician: A Treasury of Medicine'':
#*: In the following piece she has some characteristically '''salty''' things to say about what happens when law and medicine meet.
#* '''2010''', R. Tripp Evans, ''Grant Wood: A Life'', Knopf ({{ISBN|9780307266293}}), page 201:
#*: (In characteristically '''salty''' fashion, Sara admits: “I was no doubt a horrible little bitch&quot; at this age.)
#* '''2021''', Justin Driver, ''[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/24/opinion/supreme-court-cheerleader-brandi-levy-free-speech.html A Cheerleader Lands an F on Snapchat, but a B+ in Court]'', in: ''The New York Times'', June 24 2021
#*: The court might have been tempted to construe the First Amendment as too momentous — too consequential — to vindicate a disappointed teenager’s '''salty''' outburst after being cut from the varsity cheer squad. 
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} Experienced, especially used to indicate a veteran of the naval services; [[salty dog]] (from salt of the sea).
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2004|author=David Mitchell|title=Cloud Atlas|passage=There's a sailor's tavern at the end of the street where I could find companionship if I chose (one catches '''salty''' boys going in and out at any hour) but only music matters to me now.}}
# {{lb|en|US|_|slang}} [[irritated|Irritated]], [[annoyed]]
#* '''1946''', Mezz Mezzrow and Bernard Wolfe, ''Really the Blues'', Payback Press 1999, page 61:
#*: Ray and Fuzzy were '''salty''' with our unhip no-playing piano player, because she broke time on the piano so bad that the strings yelled whoa to the hammers.
#* '''1969''', Iceberg Slim, ''Pimp: The Story of My Life'', Holloway House Publishing, page 162:
#*: I want to beg your pardon for making you '''salty''' that night.
# {{lb|en|internet slang|derogatory}} [[indignant|Indignant]] or offended due to over-sensitivity, humourlessness, disappointment, defeat, or resentment; expressing indignation, disagreement, or [[hostility]]; [[bitchy]].
#* '''2004''', J. Ransom, ''Colla'd Greens Fuh-ya Soul'' ({{ISBN|9780595310401}}), page 39:
#*: Misery can make you blame everybody else for your '''salty''' attitude. You think people just don&#39;t get where you&#39;re coming from. How can so many people be so stupid, you think. Well, your misery is very likely self-inflicted.
#* '''2021''', SB Akshobhya, ''The Panipuri Crimes'', Sristhi Publishers & Distributors ({{ISBN|9789390441228}})
#*: "I regret being '''salty''' and bitchy towards you most of the time. Yesterday&#39;s offence is unforgivable, but can you forgive me for the day-to-day bickering in the past?” “Would you even care? Especially if you had not been caught outright{{...}}"
# {{lb|en|linguistics}} Pertaining to the [[Sardinian]] language and those dialects of [[Catalan]], spoken in the [[Balearic]] Islands and along the coast of [[Catalonia]], that use definitive articles descended from the Latin {{m|la|ipse||self}} instead of the Latin {{m|la|ille||that}}.

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|irritated attitude}} {{l|en|saltyback}}, {{l|en|sassy}}

====Derived terms====
* {{sense|experienced sailor}} {{l|en|salty dog}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|tasting of salt}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|kripur|alt=i kripur}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مَالِح}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|مالح|tr=māliḥ}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|աղի}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|saláu}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|duzlu}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|салёны}}
* Bikol Central: {{t+|bcl|maaskad}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|соле́н}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ငန်}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|salat}}
* Chechen: {{t|ce|дуьра}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|鹹}}, {{t|yue|咸|tr=haam4}}
*: Dungan: {{t|dng|хан}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鹹}}, {{t+|cmn|咸|tr=xián}}
*: Min Dong: {{t|cdo|鹹}}, {{t|cdo|咸|tr=gèng}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|鹹}}, {{t|nan|咸|tr=kiâm}}
*: Wu: {{t|wuu|鹹}}, {{t|wuu|咸|tr=hhe}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|slaný}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zout}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|sala}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|soolane}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suolainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|salé}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|salgado}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მარილიანი}}
* German: {{t+|de|salzig}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αλμυρός}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἁλυκός}}, {{t|grc|ἁλμυρός}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מָלוּחַ|tr=malúakh}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|नमकीन}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sós}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|saltur}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|asin}}
* Ingush: {{t|inh|дира}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|salato}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|塩っぱい|tr=しょっぱい, shoppai}}, {{t+|ja|塩辛い|tr=しおからい, shiokarai}}
* Javanese: {{t|jv|asin}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|тұзды|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ប្រៃ}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|짜다}}
* Kurdish:
*: Central Kurdish: {{t+|ckb|سوێر}}
*: Laki: {{t|lki|سووڵ}}
*: Northern Kurdish: {{t+|kmr|şorr}}
*: Southern Kurdish: {{t|sdh|سووڵ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|туздуу}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ເຄັມ}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|suolejs}}, {{t|ltg|syurs}}
* Latin: {{t|la|salsus}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|sāļš}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|sūrus}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|солен}}
* Maguindanao: {{t|mdh|matimus}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|masin}}, {{t|ms|asin}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|sailjey}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|totetote}}
* Maranao: {{t|mrw|matimos}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|давстай}}
* Old Javanese: {{t|kaw|hasin}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|شور|tr=šur|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|نمکین|tr=namakin}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|soltich}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|słony}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|salgado}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|qullpa}}, {{t|qu|millu}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|sărat}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|солёный}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|сла̑н}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|slȃn}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|slaný}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|slȃn}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|solny}}, {{t|dsb|słony}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|salado}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|salt}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|maalat}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|шӯр}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เค็ม}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tuzlu}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|duzly}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|со́лений}}, {{t|uk|соло́ний}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|نمکین|tr=namkīn}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|تۇزلۇق}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|tuzli}}, {{t+|uz|shoʻr}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|mặn}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|salöfik}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|hallt}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|זאַלציק}}
* Zazaki: {{t|zza|solın}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|containing salt}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مِلْحِيّ}}
* Bikol Central: {{t+|bcl|maaskad}} {{t|bcl|maasin}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|солен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|salat}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鹹|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|咸|tr=xián|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|鹽|alt=鹽的|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|盐|alt=盐的|tr=yán de|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zout}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suolainen}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|salgado}}
* German: {{t+|de|salzhaltig}}, {{t+|de|gesalzen}} {{qualifier|man-made}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αλατούχος}}, {{t+|el|αλατώδης}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἁλμυρός}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sós}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|asin}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|塩っぱい|tr=しょっぱい, shoppai}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|тұзды|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ប្រៃ}}
* Latin: {{t|la|salsus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|солен}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|bergaram}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|sailjey}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|słony}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|salgado}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|солёный}}, {{t+|ru|соляно́й}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|solny}}, {{t|dsb|słony}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|salado}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|maalat}}, {{t|tl|maasin}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tuzlu}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|salerik}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|hallt}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|זאַלציק}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of language: coarse, provocative}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пикантен}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rasvainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|ungehobelt}} {{qualifier|fig.}}, {{t+|de|rüde}}, {{t+|de|prollig}} {{qualifier|pejorative}}, {{t+|de|derb}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πνευματώδης}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|salgado}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|солёный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|picante}}, {{t+|es|saleroso}}, {{t+|es|atrevido}}, {{t+|es|escabroso}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|experienced}}
* German: {{t|de|wettergegerbt}} {{qualifier|face}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|быва́лый}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to article usage in Catalan dialects}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|salat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|salate}}
* {{ttbc|mdh}}: {{t-check|mdh|matimos}}
* {{ttbc|no}}: {{l|no|salt}}
* Romanian: {{t+check|ro|sărat}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[slaný]] (1, 2); [[pikantný]] (3)
* Swedish: {{t+check|sv|salt}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[ఉప్పు]] (uppu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Further reading===
* <!--   showing that 'irritated' etc is not dated; the citations suggest that 'irritated', 'hostile' and 'indignant' overlap   --> '''2015''', Maciej Widawski, ''African American Slang'', Cambridge University Press ({{ISBN|9781107074170}}), page 246:
*: '''salty''' ''adj.'' irritated, angry or hostile (BK, CM, GS, RK): [...] 2009 Police World: You shouldn&#39;t get salty toward me from talking down on these particular officers just because you yourself are a cop; 2013 Bitch Magazine: People are salty because she has the nerve to show her real-woman boobs on TV

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=alsty|Styal|slaty}}

[[Category:en:Emotions]]
[[Category:en:Taste]]