== Review of Elements, Simple Addition, and Compound Words ==

1 '''Elements''' are the smallest parts of written words that add meaning to the words.
There are three kinds of elements: prefixes, bases, and suffixes.

'''Prefixes''' are elements that go at the front of words and cannot stand free as words. Unand ''re-'' are prefixes in the words ''unpainted'' and 

''remixing.''

'''Bases''' are elements that can have prefixes and suffixes added at the front and back.

'''Free bases''' are bases that can stand free as words, like the bases ''paint'' and ''mix'' in the words ''unpainted'' and ''remixing.''

'''Suffixes''' are elements that go at the end of words and cannot stand free as words. In
the words ''unpainted'' and ''remixing,-ed'' and ''-ing'' are suffixes.

2 '''The Rule of Simple Addition.''' Unless you know some reason to make a change, when
you add elements together to spell a word, do not make any changes at all. Simply add
the elements together.

Add the following prefixes and suffixes to the free bases to spell words. All of the
elements combine according to the Rule of Simple Addition:

{|border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
|
{|
|width="75"|'''Prefix '''
|width="80" | '''+ Free Base'''
|width="75" | '''+ Suffix '''
|width="300"|'''= Word'''
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |un 
|width="80" | + friend 
|width="75" | + ly 
|width="300" |= ''unfriendly''
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |un 
|width="80" | + fail 
|width="75" | + ing
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |re 
|width="80" | + move 
|width="75" | + s 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |re 
|width="80" | + search 
|width="75" | + er 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |un
|width="80" | + arm 
|width="75" | + ed 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |re 
|width="80" | + arm 
|width="75" | + ing 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |un 
|width="80" | + finish 
|width="75" | + ed 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |re 
|width="80" | + finish 
|width="75" | + ed 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |un 
|width="80" | + trust 
|width="75" | + ing 
|width="300" |=
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |re 
|width="80" | + act 
|width="75" | + ing 
|width="300" |=
|}
|}

3 Now try some the other way around. Analyze each of the following words into its
elements. Most contain a prefix. All contain a free base and a suffix:

{|border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
|
{|
|width="75" |'''Word''' 
|width="30" |= 
|width="200" |
: '''Analysis'''
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |unmixed 
|width="30" |= 
|width="200" |''un + mix + ed''
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |remixing 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |searches 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |losses 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |redrawing 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |undoctored 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|-
|
{|
|width="75" |genies 
|width="30" |=
|width="200" |
|}
|}

4 '''Compound Words.''' Words like ''somebody'' that are made up of two or more shorter
words are called compound words, or just compounds.

Divide each of the following words into two parts. In some words Part 1 is a prefix and
Part 2 is a free base. In some words Part 1 is a free base and Part 2 is a suffix. Some
of the words are compounds in which both Part 1 and Part 2 are free bases.

{|border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
!width="125" |'''Word'''
!width="150" |'''Part 1''' 
!width="150" |'''Part 2'''
|- align="center"
|searchlight
|
|
|- align="center"
|remove
|
|
|- align="center"
|strikeout
|
|
|- align="center"
|gathered
|
|
|- align="center"
|landfill
|
|
|- align="center"
|inchworm
|
|
|- align="center"
|roaster
|
|
|- align="center"
|trusted
|
|
|- align="center"
|rewrap
|
|
|- align="center"
|birdcage
|
|
|- align="center"
|youths
|
|
|- align="center"
|mixer
|
|
|}

Write the five compound words from the table above into these boxes: . . .

{|border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
|width="125" height="30" |
|width="125" |
|width="125" |
|width="125" |
|width="125" |
|}


In each of the five compounds did the shorter words combine through simple addition?

_________________

Nearly all compound words combine by simple addition