{{rfc|check etymologies, the weapon probably belongs under the second one; check pronunciation; move definitions of derived terms to their own page.}}
{{wikipedia|dab=sap (disambiguation)|sap}}
==English==

{{rfc-level|check placement of Pronunciation}}
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/sæp/}}
*{{audio|en-us-sap.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{rhymes|æp}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{OE.}} ''[[sæp]]''; akin to Old High German ''[[saf]]'', German ''[[saft]]'', Dutch ''[[#Dutch|sap]]'', Icelandic ''[[safi]]''; of uncertain origin; possibly akin to Latin ''[[sapere]]'' ‘to taste, to be wise’, ''[[sapa]]'' ‘must or new wine boiled thick’; compare ''[[sapid]]'' and ''[[sapient]]''.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} The [[juice]] of [[plant]]s of any kind, especially the [[ascending]] and [[descending]] juices or [[circulating]] [[fluid]] essential to [[nutrition]].
# {{uncountable}} The [[sapwood]], or [[alburnum]], of a tree.
# {{context|slang|countable}} A [[simpleton]]; a [[saphead]]; a [[milksop]]; a [[naive]] person.
# {{countable}} A leather-covered hand [[weapon]]; a [[blackjack]].

====Derived terms====
* [[crude sap]]
* [[elaborated sap]]
* [[sap ball]]
* [[sap green]]
* [[sap poison]]
* [[sap rot]]
* [[sap sucker]]
* [[sap tube]]

<!-- from Webster 1913:
====Derived terms====
{{rfc|Derived terms at L4+ not in L3 POS section (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Derived terms)}}
*'''[[Sap ball]]''', ''{{botany}}:'' any large fungus of the genus ''[[Polyporus]]''
*'''[[Sap green]]:''' a dull light green pigment prepared from the juice of the ripe berries of the ''[[Rhamnus catharticus]]'', or [[buckthorn]]. It is used especially by water-color artists
*'''[[Sap rot]]:''' the dry rot. See under [[dry]]
*'''[[Sap sucker]],''' ''(Zoölogy):'' any one of several species of small American [[woodpeckers]] of the genus ''[[Sphyrapicus]]'', especially the yellow-bellied woodpecker ''[[Sphyrapicus varius]]'' of the Eastern United States. They are so named because they puncture the bark of trees and feed upon the sap. The name is loosely applied to other woodpeckers
*'''[[Sap tube]],''' ''{{botany}}:'' a vessel that conveys sap
-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|juice of plant}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|sap|n}}
*Finnish: [[mahla]]
*French: [[sève]] {{f}}
*German: [[Saft]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[linfa]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Korean: [[즙]] ([[汁]], jeub, jeup), [[수액]] ([[樹液]], suaeg, -aek)
*Norwegian: [[sevje]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[сок]] (sok) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[savia]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sapwood of a tree}}
*Dutch: {{t|nl|spint|n}}, {{t|nl|spinthout|n}}
*German: [[Mantelholz]] {{n}}, [[Splint]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[alburno]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[сок]] (sok) {{m}}, [[живица]] (živíca) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: saphead}}
*Dutch: {{t|nl|slappeling|m}}, {{t|nl|imbeciel|m}}, {{t|nl|idioot|m}}, {{t-|nl|simpele|m}}
*Finnish: [[hölmö]]
*Italian: [[sempliciotto]] {{m}}, [[imbecille]] {{m}}, [[stupido]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Norwegian: [[tosk]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a leather-covered hand weapon}}
*Italian: [[manganello]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[succo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{F.}} ''[[saper]]'' (compare Spanish ''[[zapar]]'' and Italian ''[[zapare]]'') from ''[[sape]]'' ‘sort of scythe’, from {{LL.}} ''[[sappa]]'' ‘sort of mattock’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{military}} A [[narrow]] [[ditch]] or [[trench]] made from the foremost [[parallel]] toward the [[glacis]] or [[covert]] way of a [[besiege]]d place by digging under [[cover]] of [[gabions]], etc.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[sap fagot]]
*[[sap roller]]
<!--From Webster 1913:
*'''Sap fagot,''' ''(Military):'' a [[fascine]] about three feet long, used in sapping, to close the crevices between the [[gabions]] before the [[parapet]] is made
*'''Sap roller,''' ''(Military):'' a large [[gabion]], six or seven feet long, filled with [[fascine]]s, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for protection from the fire of an enemy.
-->
=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|narrow ditch or trench}}
*Finnish: [[juoksuhauta]] (most often "juoksuhauta" would translate into English as "trench". In Finnish the same word covers also "sap")
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|sap|p|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[subvert]] by [[dig]]ging or [[wear away|wearing away]]; to [[mine]]; to [[undermine]]; to [[destroy]] the [[foundation]] of.
#* {{rfdate}} ''Nor safe their dwellings were, for '''sapped''' by floods, / Their houses fell upon their household gods.'' — [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
# {{context|transitive|military}} To [[pierce]] with saps.
# To make [[unstable]] or [[infirm]]; to [[unsettle]]; to [[weaken]].
#* {{rfdate}} ''Ring out the grief that '''saps''' the mind.'' — [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]]
# {{transitive}} To gradually [[weaken]].
#* ''to '''sap''' one’s conscience''
# {{intransitive}} To [[proceed]] by mining, or by secretly undermining; to [[execute]] saps — {{rfdate|provide real quote}}W. P. Craighill
#* {{rfdate}} ''Both assaults carried on by '''sapping'''''. — The Tatler

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|undermine}}
*Dutch: {{tø|n|ondermijnen}}, {{t+|nl|aantasten}}, {{t|nl|ondergraven}}
*Finnish: [[heikentää]]
*Italian: [[scalzare]], [[minare]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pierce with saps}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|make unstable; weaken}}
*Dutch: {{t|nl|verzwakken}}, {{t+|nl|aantasten}}
*Finnish: [[uuvuttaa]], [[heikentää]]
*Italian: [[indebolire]], [[fiaccare]], [[logorare]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|gradually weaken}}
*Dutch: {{t-|nl|knagen}} aan, {{t+|nl|aantasten}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|proceed by mining}}
*Dutch: {{t|nl|ondergraven}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Liquids]]
[[Category:Weapons]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun2|n|pen|je}}

# [[sap#English|sap]] (fluid in plants)
# [[juice]]

----

==Romani==

===Noun===
'''sap''' {{m}}

# [[snake]]

[[Category:Romani nouns]]

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
'''sap'''

# [[shaft]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==

===Noun===
'''sap'''

# [[wisdom]]

[[Category:Volapük nouns]]

[[ang:sap]]
[[fr:sap]]
[[io:sap]]
[[id:sap]]
[[it:sap]]
[[nl:sap]]
[[ja:sap]]
[[pl:sap]]
[[ru:sap]]
[[fi:sap]]
[[ta:sap]]
[[vi:sap]]
[[tr:sap]]
[[zh:sap]]