{{also|saxon}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} *{{m|enm||Saxon}}, {{m|enm|Saxoun}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} *{{m|fro||Saxoun}}, {{m|fro|Saxon||Saxon}}, from {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{m|la|Saxonem}}, accusative of {{m|la|Saxo||a Saxon}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*Sahsô}}, probably originally a derivative of {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*sahsą||rock, knife}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*sek-||to cut}}. Cognate with {{cog|gml|Sasse||someone speaking Saxon, i.e. (Middle) Low German}}, {{cog|ang|Seaxa||a Saxon}}, {{cog|goh|Sahso||a Saxon}}, {{cog|is|Saxi||a Saxon}}, {{cog|ang|seax||a knife, hip-knife, an instrument for cutting, a short sword, dirk, dagger}}. More at {{l|en|sax}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/sæksən/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æksən|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A member of an [[ancient]] West [[Germanic]] [[tribe]] that lived at the eastern [[North Sea]] coast and south of it.
# A [[native]] or [[inhabitant]] of [[Saxony]].
#* '''2002''', Jonathan Grix, Paul Cooke, ''East German distinctiveness in a unified Germany'', page 142:
#*: [...] in West Germany Saxony and '''Saxons''' became synonymous with Ulbricht's Communist regime, [...]
#* '''2005''', Judd Stitziel, ''Fashioning socialism: clothing, politics, and consumer culture'', page 69:
#*: The film taught that socialist competition, through encouraging the collaboration of both men and women and '''Saxons''' and Berliners, could overcome the natural antagonism between male industrial mass production and female fashion.
#* '''2008''', Eckbert Schulz-Schomburgk, ''From Leipzig to Venezuela'', page 40:
#*: Dealing with people there was different from the way I dealt with '''Saxons''', Berliners and others back in Leipzig.
# {{label|en|uncountable|US|_|printing|rare|dated}} A [[size]] of [[type]] between [[German]] and [[Norse]], 2-[[point]] [[type]].
# {{label|en|Ireland|Wales|poetic}} An English/British person.
#* '''1973''', Sean McCarthy, ''Shanagolden'' (song):
#*: Then came the call to arms, love, the heather was aflame / Down from the silent mountains, the '''Saxon''' strangers came.
# A kind of rapidly [[spin]]ning ground-based [[firework]].

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Transylvanian Saxon}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|member of Saxon tribe}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|սաքս}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|saxó|m}}, {{t|ca|saxona|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Sas|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Saks|m}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|saksi|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saksi}}
* German: {{t+|de|Sachse|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szász}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|サクソン人|tr=sakuson jin}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|Hakiana}}, {{t|mi|Hakihona}}
* Old French: {{t|fro|Saiscon|m}}
* Old Irish: {{t|sga|Saxa|m}}, {{t|sga|Saxanach|m}}, {{t|sga|Sagsach|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Sas|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saxão|m}}, {{t|pt|saxônio|m}}, {{t|pt|saxônico|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сакс|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sajón|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|saxare|c}}, {{t|sv|sachsare|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|native or inhabitant of Saxony}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|saxó|m}}, {{t|ca|saxona|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Sas|m}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|saksi|m}}, {{t|fo|sakslendingur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saksi}}, {{t|fi|saksilainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Sachse|m}}, {{t|de|Sächsin|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Sas|m}}, {{t|pl|Saksończyk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saxão|m}}, {{t|pt|saxônio|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|саксо́нец|m}}, {{t+|ru|саксо́нка|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sajón|m}}, {{t+|es|sajona|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|2-point type}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|non plus ultra}}, {{t|nl|vierde petit}}
* German: {{t|de|Non Plus Ultra}}, {{t|de|Viertelpetit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# The [[language]] of the ancient Saxons.
# The dialect of modern [[German]] spoken in [[Saxony]].
#* '''2014''', Marco Polo, ''Dresden Marco Polo Guide'' (ISBN 382970755X), page 21:
#*: Not everyone from the former GDR states are '''Saxons''' – and they do not all speak '''Saxon''', {{...}}
#* '''2014''', Gaston Dorren, ''Lingo: A Language Spotter's Guide to Europe'' (ISBN 1782831398):
#*: But does this mean that Germans nowadays speak '''Saxon'''? Far from it, in fact; '''Saxon''' is the most widely despised dialect in Germany, by a wide margin.
# {{surname}}
# {{given name|male|from=surnames}} of modern usage, from the surname, or directly from the noun Saxon.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|language of the Saxons}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|saxó|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saksi}}
* German: {{t|de|Sächsisch|n}}, {{t+|de|Altsächsisch|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|サクソン語|tr=sakuson go}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saxão|m}}, {{t|pt|saxônico|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of or relating to the Saxons.
# Of or relating to Saxony.
# Of or relating to the Saxon language.
# {{label|en|Ireland|Wales|poetic}} Of our relating to England, typically as opposed to a Celtic nationality. 

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of Saxons, Saxony or Saxon language}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|saxó}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|saksiskur}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saksilainen}}, [[saksi]]-
* German: {{t+|de|sächsisch}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|サクソン語の|tr=sakuson go no}} {{qualifier|language}}, {{t|ja|サクソン族の|tr=sakuson zoku no}} {{qualifier|of tribe}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Old Norse: {{t|non|saxlenzkr}}, {{t|non|saxneskr}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|saksoński}}, {{t+|pl|saski}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saxão}}, {{t|pt|saxônio}}, {{t|pt|saxônico}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|саксо́нский}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sajón}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|saxone}}
* Low German: {{t-check|nds|Sassen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|Saxonian}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|axons}}, {{l|en|Naxos}}

[[Category:en:Demonyms]]

[[ca:Saxon]]
[[et:Saxon]]
[[fr:Saxon]]
[[io:Saxon]]
[[hu:Saxon]]
[[pl:Saxon]]
[[pt:Saxon]]
[[ru:Saxon]]
[[sr:Saxon]]
[[fi:Saxon]]
[[zh:Saxon]]