==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=scrub}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|skrŭb}}, {{IPA|/skɹʌb/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʌb|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etystub|en}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# [[mean|Mean]]; [[dirty]]; [[contemptible]]; scrubby.
#* {{rfdate}}'' {{w|Walpole}}
#*: How solitary, how '''scrub,''' does this town look!
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|Jonathan Swift}}
#*: No little '''scrub''' joint shall come on my board.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# One who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow.
#* John Bunyan, A Pilgrim's Promise
#*: a sorry '''scrub'''
#* Oliver Goldsmith, The Vicar of Wakefield
#*: We should go there in as proper a manner possible; nor altogether like the '''scrubs''' about us.
#* '''1999''', TLC (band), ''No Scrubs'' (song)
#*: A '''scrub''' is a guy that thinks he's fly<br>And is also known as a buster<br>Always talkin' about what he wants<br>And just sits on his broke ass {{...}}
# One who is incompetent or unable to complete easy tasks.
#: {{ux|en|You are such a '''scrub'''! Instead of washing the dishes you put the used food on your face!}}
# A thicket or jungle, often specified by the name of the prevailing plant; as, oak '''scrub''', palmetto '''scrub''', etc.
#* {{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=1
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]
|passage=I stumbled along through the young pines and huckleberry bushes. Pretty soon I struck into a sort of path that, I cal'lated, might lead to the road I was hunting for. It twisted and turned, and, the first thing I knew, made a sudden bend around a bunch of bayberry '''scrub''' and opened out into a big clear space like a lawn.}}
# {{label|en|US|stock breeding}} One of the common livestock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, especially when inferior in size, etc. Often used to refer to male animals unsuited for breeding.
# Vegetation of inferior quality, though sometimes thick and impenetrable, growing in poor soil or in sand; also, [[brush]].
# One not on the first team of players, a [[substitute]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[scrubbable]]
* [[scrub game]] <!--a game, as of ball, by unpracticed players.-->
* [[scrub race]] <!--a race between scrubs, or between untrained animals or contestants.-->
* [[scrub board]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|one who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ничто́жество|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something small and mean}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|замо́рыш|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a thicket or jungle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pensaikko}}, {{t|fi|pusikko}}, {{t+|fi|puska}}, {{t+|fi|tiheikkö}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one of the common livestock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|vegetation of inferior quality}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puska}}, {{t|fi|pöheikkö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|broussaille|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gestrüpp|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|taekai}}, {{t|mi|ururua}}, {{t|mi|tahuere}}, {{t|mi|mōheuheu}}, {{t|mi|tāwhao}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|brenha|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скраб|m}}, {{t+|ru|куста́рник|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|breña|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[scrub bird]]
* [[scrub oak]]
* [[scrub robin]]

===Etymology 2===
{{wikipedia|Scrubs (clothing)|Scrubs}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|scrobben||groom a horse with a [[currycomb]]}}; From {{etyl|dum|en}} {{m|dum|schrobben||clean by scrubbing}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|scrubb}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[rub]] hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.
# {{label|en|intransitive}} To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour;
# {{label|en|intransitive|figuratively}} To be diligent and penurious; as, to '''scrub''' hard for a living.
# {{label|en|transitive}} To call off a scheduled event; to [[cancel]].
#: ''Engineers had to '''scrub''' the satellite launch due to bad weather.''
# {{label|en|databases|transitive}} To [[eliminate]] or to [[correct]] data from a set of [[record]]s to bring it inline with other similar [[dataset]]s
#: ''The street segment data from the National Post Office will need to be scrubbed before it can be integrated into our system.''
# {{label|en|audio}} To move a recording tape back and forth with a scrubbing-like motion to produce a scratching sound, or to do so by a similar use of a control on an editing system.
# {{label|en|audio|video}} To maneuver the play position on a media editing system by using a scroll bar or [[multitouch|touch-based interface]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to rub hard}}
* Arabic:
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|حك|tr=ḥək|alt=حكّ}}, {{t|ary|فرك|tr=frək|alt=فْرك}} {{qualifier|skin while washing, clothes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schrobben}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jynssätä}}, {{t|fi|jyystää}}, {{t|fi|kuurata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|crosser}}
* German: {{t|de|scheuern}}, {{t|de|schrubben}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sikál}}
* Italian: {{t|it|sfregare}}, {{t+|it|strofinare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|scrober}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|ūkui}}, {{t|mi|kōmukumuku}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skrubbe}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esfregar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скрести́|impf}}, {{t+|ru|дра́ить|impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|fregar}}, {{t+|es|tallar}} {{qualifier|Mexico}}, {{t+|es|estregar}}, {{t+|es|restregar}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|schurer}}, {{t+|wa|rischurer}}, {{t|wa|kifroyî}}, {{t+|wa|cafroter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to rub anything hard}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jynssätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sikál}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be diligent and penurious}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|puurtaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to call off a scheduled event; to cancel}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|perua}}, {{t+|fi|peruuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|annuler}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|disdire}}, {{t+|it|annullare}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|odwołać}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An instance of scrubbing.
# A [[cancellation]].
# A worn-out [[brush]].
#: {{rfquotek|Ainsworth}}
# One who scrubs.
# {{label|en|medicine|in the plural}} Clothing worn while performing surgery.
# {{label|en|by extension|in the plural}} Any medical uniform consisting of a short-sleeved shirt and pants (trousers).
#* '''2014''', Jeff Jacobson, ''Growth'' (page 23)
#*: A man dressed as a lab tech, his blue '''scrubs''' startlingly pale against the vivid red and black chaos, moved into sight from behind the SUV. He carried an assault rifle.
# An [[exfoliant]] for the body.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|clothing worn during surgery}} {{l|en|surgical gown}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|instance of scrubbing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jynssäys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|cancellation}}

{{trans-top|worn-out brush}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who scrubs}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jynssääjä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clothing worn in surgery}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[kirurgi|kirurgin]] [[asu]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[curbs#English|curbs]]

[[et:scrub]]
[[fa:scrub]]
[[fr:scrub]]
[[ko:scrub]]
[[hy:scrub]]
[[io:scrub]]
[[it:scrub]]
[[kn:scrub]]
[[ku:scrub]]
[[hu:scrub]]
[[mg:scrub]]
[[ml:scrub]]
[[my:scrub]]
[[pl:scrub]]
[[simple:scrub]]
[[sh:scrub]]
[[fi:scrub]]
[[tl:scrub]]
[[ta:scrub]]
[[te:scrub]]
[[chr:scrub]]
[[vi:scrub]]
[[zh:scrub]]