{{also|s.d.|.sd}}
===SHACKLESONS DISEASE===

Shacklesons Disease is a rare and unknown sickness that affects the brain. This disease is labeled as non-contagious and possibly fatal. The potential cause(s) are bacterial viruses which in times of stress in life causes it to react. As of Fall 2008, Scientists stated in the Medical Bulletin of Rare Diseases No. 4991, that Shacklesons Disease is non-curable and is under studies to uncover more detailed information about this miraculous disease.

Some of the effects that this disease has on the human brain include psychic abilities, increased hearing and paranormal activities. Which for some unexplainable and unknown reason this disease causes the brain to form what is known as a “sixth sense”. Also, patients with this disease have been known to have an above average intelligence quotient. On the other hand, some of the negative side effects of Shacklesons Disease is a sickness of multiple symptoms over varied periods of time, decreased immunity, dizziness, moderate to severe headaches, sleepiness/tiredness, sleep problems, paranoia, mild to moderate pains (in heart, chest, legs, feet, and hands), depression, mood swings, shaking, losing balance, and in some cases memory loss.

In honor of the few and respected people who have been diagnosed with this disease, the United States has declared that October 18th is National Shacklesons Disease Awareness Day. The total amount of people who has this disease (as of the Summer 2008) is 182 people. Scientists are seeing more known signs occurring. So by 2012, Scientists are hoping that they will be able to discover more about this astounding disease. As of right now, scientists are awaiting government funding to help aide their research of Shacklesons Disease.

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''SD'''

# Shacklesons Disease
# [[school|School]] [[district]]
# [[sheriff|Sherrif's]] [[department]]
# [[South Dakota]], a state of the [[United States of America]].
# [[standard deviation|Standard deviation]], a mathematical measure of the spread of a list of numbers
# [[Sudan]], a member state of the [[United Nations]].

[[Category:US States]]

[[fr:SD]]
[[he:SD]]
[[pl:SD]]
[[tr:SD]]