{{wikipedia|dab=Seam}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-seem.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Homophones: [[seem]]
* {{rhymes|iːm}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''seam''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[folded]] back and [[stitch]]ed piece of [[fabric]].
# A [[suture]].
# A thin [[stratum]], especially of [[coal]] or [[mineral]].
# {{cricket}} The stitched [[equatorial]] seam of a [[cricket ball]]; the [[sideways]] [[movement]] of a ball when it [[bounce]]s on the seam.
# An old English [[measure]] of [[grain]], containing eight [[bushel]]s.
# An old English measure of [[glass]], containing twenty-four [[wey]]s of five [[pound]]s, or 120 pounds.
#* '''1952''': As white glass was 6s. the 'seam', containing 24 'weys' (pise, or pondera) of 5 lb., and 2 1/2 lb. was reckoned sufficient to make one foot of glazing, the cost of glass would be 1 1/2d. leaving 2 1/2d. for labour. &mdash; [[w:en:Louis Francis Salzman|L. F. Salzman|]], ''Building in England'', p. 175.
# (Construction) A joint formed by mating two separate sections of materials. Seams can be made or sealed in a varity of ways, includiong adhesive bonding, hot-air welding, solvent welding, using adhesive tapes, sealant, etc.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|folded back and stitched piece of fabric}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կար|tr=kar}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|søm|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sauma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|couture}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Saum|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|costura|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|costura|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|suture}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կար|tr=kar}}
* Danish: {{t|da|sutur|c}},  {{t+|da|søm|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ommel}}, {{t-|fi|tikkaus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|suture|f}}
* Latin: {{t|la|sutura|f|alt=sūtūra}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sutura|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|thin stratum of mineral}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|suoni}}, {{t-|fi|juonne}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stitched seam of a cricket ball}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|measure of grain}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|measure of glass}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[zoom]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[cicatrice]] {{f}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: {{he-translation|תפר|tefer}} {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[cucitura]] {{f}} (1), costura
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[솔기]] (solgi)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[emenda]], [[rachadura]], [[cicatriz]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[seamster]]
* [[seamstress]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To put together with a seam.
# To mark with a seam.
# To crack open along a seam.
# {{cricket}} Of the ball, to move sideways after bouncing on the seam.
# {{cricket}} Of a bowler, to make the ball move thus.

[[ang:seam]]
[[fa:seam]]
[[fr:seam]]
[[io:seam]]
[[it:seam]]
[[hu:seam]]
[[ru:seam]]
[[fi:seam]]
[[ta:seam]]
[[te:seam]]
[[vi:seam]]
[[zh:seam]]