'''To see a man''', '''to see a man about a dog''', or '''to see a man about a horse''' is usually a smiling apology for one's departure or absence, used as a bland euphemism to conceal one's true purpose. The phrase has several meanings but all refer to taking one's leave for some urgent purpose, especially to go to the bathroom or going to buy a drink. During [[Prohibition in the United States]], "to see a man about a dog" often meant to go meet one's bootlegger.[http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-see1.htm] The phrase "see a dog about a man" is also sometimes used.

Examples: 
* Although they were all out, at the bases, and the rest of our nine having gone to see a man there was nobody to take the bat.<ref>''Ball Players' Chronicle'' 12 Sep.3/I, [[1867]]</ref>
* I'm in a rush—gotta see a dog about a man!<ref>''Chicago Tribune'' 21 Mar (Comics) 15, [[1948]]</ref>

The saying comes from the [[1866]] [[Dion Boucicault]] [[play]] [[Flying Scud]], in which a character knowingly breezes past a difficult situation saying, "Excuse me Mr. Quail, I can't stop; I've got to see a man about a dog." [http://www.joe-ks.com/phrases/phrasesS.htm]

The saying is also attributed to the practice in the Old West of having a horse available at each saloon to transport patrons across the often-muddy streets to the latrines.  The horse was usually kept by a boy or old man, hence the euphemism "seeing a man about a horse" arose.

==References==
* Ayto, John. ''Oxford Slang.'' 1998.
* Farmer, J.S. and W.E. Henley. ''Slang and its Analogues.'' 1986.
* Chapman, Robert L. ''Dictionary of American Slang.'' 1995.
* Matthews, Mitford M. ''A Dictionary of Americanisms.'' 1951.
* Spears, Richard A. ''Slang and Euphemism.'' 1981.
* Spears, Richard A. ''The Slang and Jargon of Drugs and Drink.'' 1986.
* Wayne, John A.

==Footnotes==
<references/>

==External links==
* [http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-see1.htm "See a man about a dog"] — [[Michael Quinion]]'s ''World Wide Words''


[[Category:Slang]]
[[Category:Sociolinguistics]]
[[Category:Figures of speech]]