==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/sɪˈmæntɪks/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{linguistics}} A branch of [[linguistics]] studying the [[meaning]] of words.
#: '''''Semantics''' is a foundation of lexicography.''
# The study of the relationship between words and their meanings.
#* '''2006''', Patrick Blackburn · Johan Bos · Kristina Striegnitz, ''[http://www.learnprolognow.org/lpnpage.php?pagetype=html&pageid=lpn-htmlse32 Learn Prolog Now!]'', &sect;8.1
#*: ''Extra arguments can also be used to build semantic representations. Now, we did not say anything about what the words in our little DCG mean. In fact, nowadays a lot is known about the [[semantics]] of natural languages, and it is surprisingly easy to build semantic representations which partially capture the meaning of sentences or even entire discourses. Such representations are usually expressions of some formal language (for example first-order logic, discourse representation structures, or a database query language) and they are usually built up compositionally. That is, the meaning of each word is expressed in the formal language; this meaning is given as an extra argument in the DCG entries for the individual words. Then, for each rule in the grammar, an extra argument shows how to combine the meaning of the two subcomponents. For example, to the rule s  -->  np,  vp we would add an extra argument stating how to combine the np meaning and the vp meaning to form the s meaning. Although somewhat more complex, the semantic construction process is quite like the way we built up the parse tree for the sentence from the parse tree of its subparts.<sup>1</sup>''
# The individual meanings of words, as opposed to the overall meaning of a passage.
#: ''The '''semantics''' of the terms used are debatable.''
#: ''The '''semantics''' of a single preposition is a dissertation in itself.''

====Derived terms====
* [[algebraic semantics]]
* [[axiomatic semantics]]
* [[computational semantics]]
* [[denotational semantics]]
* [[formal semantics]]
* [[lexical semantics]]
* [[mathematical semantics]]
* [[operational semantics]]
* [[statistical semantics]]

====Related terms====
* [[seme]]
* [[sememe]]
* [[semantic]]
* [[semasiology]]
* [[sematic]]
* [[sematology]]
* [[semiotic]]
* [[semiotics]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|science of the meaning of words}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|semantiek}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|semantikë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|علم المعاني|m|sc=Arab}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|semàntica|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|语义学|tr=yǔyìxué|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|semantika|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|sémantika|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|semantik|c}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|semantiek|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|semantiikka}}, {{t-|fi|merkitysoppi}}
* French: {{t|fr|sémantique|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|szemantika}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|semantik}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[意味論]]}} ({{Jpan|[[いみろん]]}}, imiron)
* Korean: {{t|ko|의미론|tr=uimilon|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish:
*: Kurmanji: {{t|kmr|watenasî|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|semantikk|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|علم معانی|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|معنی‌شناسی|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|semantyka|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|семантика|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=semántika}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pomenoslovje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|semántica|f}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|semantika}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|ngữ nghĩa học}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|study of the relationship between words and their meanings}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|semantika|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|semantik|c}}, {{t|da|betydningslære|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|semantiikka}}, {{t-|fi|merkitysoppi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|semantikk|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|семантика|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=semántika}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|individual meanings of words}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|semantika|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|semantik|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|semantiikka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|semantikk|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|семантика|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=semántika}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[semantiek]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[Semantik]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[semantica]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[Semantica]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|lt}}: [[semantika]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[דקדוק]]
* {{ttbc|no}}: [[semantikk]] {{c}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: [[معنی‌شناسی]] (ma'ni-shenasi)
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[semantik]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[Appendix:Glossary of semantics]]

====External links====
<!-- Note: absent in Webster 1913 and Century 1911 -->
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:en:Philosophy]]

[[et:semantics]]
[[el:semantics]]
[[fa:semantics]]
[[io:semantics]]
[[id:semantics]]
[[kn:semantics]]
[[hu:semantics]]
[[no:semantics]]
[[pl:semantics]]
[[pt:semantics]]
[[simple:semantics]]
[[fi:semantics]]
[[ta:semantics]]
[[tr:semantics]]
[[vi:semantics]]
[[zh:semantics]]