{{deadend|date=December 2007}}
{{Refimprove|date=May 2007}}
{{Wikify|date=May 2007}}
{{Original research|date=September 2007}}
{{dictdef}}
\Ser"pent*ry\

== Lead Section ==

Serpentry is a noun generally defined as a winding like a serpent's, or a place inhabited or infested by serpents.  Serpentry behavior can be attributed to snakes.  

Also, serpentry may pertain to any act or motion of a serpent or serpent like creature. These acts, such as slithering, climbing, eat, drinking, killing, sleeping, or constricting can be classified as serpentry behavior. An example of this is a corn snake, who may "slither around all serpentry like."

== First Paragraph ==

Serpentry behavior is not limited to but may be attributed to all of the following animals: corn snake, king snake, other snakes/serpent like creatures.  The process of a snake sleeping can be considered serpentry.  Any action by a serpent or serpent like creature may be called serpentry.  These creatures generally are unaware of their serpentry behavior, which often goes unnoticed to the non observant onlooker.  Serpentry behavior can be observed in areas that are popular serpent hang outs such as damp, dark, humid places.  Often, serpents may be observed at these types of locations performing serpentry like behavior.

== Description ==

Serpentry behavior was first noted in the early 1900s.  The title "Serpentry" was given because this type of behavior is exhibited by a snake (serpent).  All snakes exhibit this type of behavior and it is not invalid to say that snakes are serpentry creatures.  Since snakes spend the majority of their time sleeping, eating, drinking, slithering, all of which are characteristics of serpentrism, it can be said that snakes are always exhibiting serpentry behavior.  

== Other Examples ==

A water moccasin (cottonmouth) is another example of a snake that exhibits serpentry like behavior.  Although this snake spends the majority of its time in the water, this snake still exhibits serpentry like behavior because it swims around serpentry like.  This snake portrays serpentrism.  This snake like all others eats, drinks, and attacks.  The main difference is that the cottonmouth swims around and stalks its prey from the water.  Although this process does not take place on the land, it still can be considered serpentry and his hereby defined as serpentry like behavior. 

== Notes ==

It is very difficult to view a serpent that is not portraying serpentry behavior.  All snakes/serprents exhibit this type of behavior, which is commonly overlooked by many serpent observers.  Serpents may, however, not always exhibit serpentry like behavior.   One example of a serpent that does not portray serpent like behavior is that of a serpent that has chosen not to portray this characteristic.  This is very uncommon, however, as the serpent often does not even know that it portrays serpent like behavior.  This makes it very difficult for the serpent to hide.  Serpents are serpent like creatures, so basically everything they do can be considered serpentry.  If one were to observe a serpent, they could see the multiple types of serpent like characteristics that these animals display.  Many consider it a very interesting/eventful time to watch a serpent be serpentry.

== The Opposite of Serpentry Behavior ==

It is the easiest to define serpentry by first analyzing what it is not. Through this, we can get a holistic perspective of the entire essence of serpentryism. For example, if one were to state that a dog humping a fire hydrant was serpentry behavior, they would be wrong. Dead wrong. In fact, an example such as this is the farthest thing from serpentry behavior! This is primarily because a dog is not a serpent, and therefore could not portray serpentry behavior, and secondly because a serpent could not hump a fire hydrant. The secondary is not always the case, perhaps, because a large anaconda could hump a fire hydrant if it choose to do so. It is noted that an anaconda would not be living in a rural area and therefore there would be no fire hydrants around, so that would be considered nonsense. We then can conclude, once again, that a serpent is the only creature that could do something that is serpentry like.

{{Uncategorized|date=December 2007}}