{{also|Settle}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|sĕtʹəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈsɛtəl/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-settle.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛtəl|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From a merger of two verbs:
* {{inh|en|enm|setlen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|setlan|t=to settle, seat, put to rest}}, from {{der|en|ang|setl||seat}} (compare Dutch {{m|nl|zetelen||to be established, settle}}) and
* {{inh|en|enm|sahtlen}}, {{m|enm|seihtlen|t=to reconcile, calm, subside}}, from {{inh|en|ang|sahtlian}}, {{m|ang|ġesehtlian|t=to reconcile}}, from {{der|en|ang|saht}}, {{m|ang|seht|t=settlement, agreement, reconciliation, peace}} (see {{m|en|saught}}, {{m|en|-le}}).

====Verb====
{{en-verb|settl}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To determine (something which was exposed to doubt or question); to resolve conclusively; to [[set]] or [[fix]] (a time, an order of succession, etc).
#* {{w|Jonathan Swift}}
#*: It will '''settle''' the wavering, and confirm the doubtful.
#: {{ux|en|His fears were '''settled'''}}
#: {{ux|en|She hopes to '''settle''' and questions about the plans.}}
#: {{ux|en|The question of the succession to a throne needs to be '''settled'''.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[conclude]], to cause (a dispute) to finish.
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' a quarrel}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} In particular, to [[terminate]] (a lawsuit), usually out of court, by agreement of all parties.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To close, [[liquidate]] or [[balance]] (an account) by payment, sometimes of less than is owed or due.
#* Paul Kelly, ''Willie Blair: A Tale of True Loss and Sadness'' {{ISBN|1782345329}}:
#*: The coffee was only surface wet and looked worse than it actually was and as he returned to the Reception Desk to '''settle''' his account and give back his room key, he was met again by the young man who was still wearing his rucksack.
# {{lb|en|transitive|colloquial}} To pay (a bill).
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' a bill}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To place or arrange in(to) a desired state, or make [[final]] disposition of (something).
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' my affairs}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' her estate}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to quiet; to calm (nerves, waters, a boisterous or rebellious child, etc).
#* {{w|George Chapman}}
#*: God '''settled''' then the huge whale-bearing lake.
#* {{w|John Bunyan}}
#*: Hoping that sleep might '''settle''' his brains.
# {{lb|en|UK|dialectal}} To [[silence]], especially by force; by extension, to [[kill]].
#* '''1894-5''', Patterson, ''Man and Nature'' (in ''The Primitive Methodist Magazine''):
#*: I poured a charge of powder over the nipple so as not tu miss goin' off if possible. Click! went the match,—up jumped the flock, or tried tu. As they bunched up, Peggy blazed intu 'em, '''settlin’''' how many I didn't know, [...]
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To bring or restore (ground, roads, etc) to a smooth, dry, or passable condition.
#: {{ux|en|clear weather '''settles''' the roads}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To place in(to) a fixed or permanent condition or position or on(to) a permanent basis; to make firm, steady, or stable; to establish or fix.
#* 2 Kings VIII. 11. (Rev. Ver.):
#*: And he '''settled''' his countenance steadfastly upon him,until he was ashamed.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} In particular, to establish in life; to fix in business, in a home, etc.
#* {{quote-book|year=1700|title=[[w:Metamorphoses‎|Metamorphoses]]|author=[[w:Ovid|Ovid]]|by=[[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]|passage=The father thought the time drew on Of '''settling''' in the world his only son.}}
#* ''Bible'':
#*: But I will '''settle''' him in mine house and in my kingdom for ever.
## {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete|US}} In particular, to establish in pastoral office; to ordain or install as pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish.
##: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' a minister}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|law}} To formally, legally [[secure]] (an annuity, property, title, etc) on (a person).
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[colonize]] (an area); to migrate to (a land, territory, site, etc).
#: {{ux|en|the French first '''settled''' Canada;&nbsp; the Puritans '''settled''' New England;&nbsp; Plymouth was '''settled''' in 1620.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To move (people) to (a land or territory), so as to [[colonize]] it; to cause (people) to take residence in (a place).
#* '''2001''', Eric Nelson, ''The Complete Idiot's Guide to the Roman Empire'' {{ISBN|1101199180}}:
#*: Rome began to '''settle''' displaced or disenfranchised citizens, veterans, and allies in colonies beyond Italy.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To clear or [[purify]] (a liquid) of [[dregs]] and impurities by causing them to sink.
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' coffee, or the grounds of coffee}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to sink down or to be deposited (as dregs, sediment, etc).
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' the sediment out of the water}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To render [[compact]] or [[solid]]; to cause to become packed down.
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' the chips in the potato chip bag by shaking it}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To put into (proper) place; to make [[sit]] properly.
#* '''2012''', Nancy Gideon, ''Seeker of Shadows'' {{ISBN|143919954X}}:
#*: She twisted out from under the claim of his palm to '''settle''' her feet on the floor.
#* '''2002''', Tom Deitz, ''Warautumn'' {{ISBN|0553380710}}, page 53:
#*: Pausing only to '''settle''' his cloak and set his Regent's circlet on his hair, he strode to the rail and waited.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To fix one's residence in a place; to establish a dwelling place, home, or colony. {{q|Compare {{m|en|settle down}}.}}
#: {{ux|en|the Saxons who '''settled''' in Britain}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become [[married]], or a [[householder]].
#* {{w|Matthew Prior}}
#*: As people marry now and '''settle'''.
# {{rfv-sense|lang=en}} {{lb|en|intransitive}} To be established in a profession or in employment.
#: {{ux|en|to '''settle''' in the practice of law}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1825  |title=An Historical Discourse Delivered at West Springfield|author=William Buell Sprague |page= |ISBN= |passage=He is '''settled''' in the profession of law at Rochester, New York. }}
#* {{quote-book|year=1994 |title=Sir Hans Sloane|author=Arthur MacGregor |page= |ISBN= |passage=Following his avowed aim to '''settle''' in his profession of medicine, Sloane arranged to call on Dr Thomas Sydenham, the foremost physician of his day in London, known as 'the English Hippocrates'. }}
#* {{quote-journal|year=2016 |work=Journal of Education and Practice  |title=Differences in Mathematics Teachers' Perceived Preparedness to Demonstrate Competence in Secondary School Mathematics Content by Teacher Characteristics |volume=7 |number=18 |author=J.K. Ng'eno & M.C. Chesimet |passage=The likely explanation for this is the fact that between the two groups one is now '''settling''' in the profession while the older group is preparing to retire and are no longer keen to gain new skills.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|usually with "down", "in", "on" or another preposition}} To become stationary or fixed; to come to [[rest]].
#* {{w|Francis Bacon}}
#*: The wind came about and '''settled''' in the west.
#* {{w|John Arbuthnot}}
#*: Chyle {{...}} runs through all the intermediate colors until it '''settles''' in an intense red.
#: {{ux|en|they '''settled''' down at an inn; the hawk '''settled''' on a branch}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become calm, quiet, or orderly; to stop being agitated.
#* '''1623''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Winter's Tale}}''
#*: Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
#*: Then, till the fury of his highness '''settle''',
#*: Come not before him.
#* {{quote-journal
|date=March 14, 2017
|author=Stuart James
|title=Leicester stun Sevilla to reach last eight after Kasper Schmeichel save
|work=the Guardian
|url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2017/mar/14/leicester-city-sevilla-champions-league-match-report
|page=
|passage=With Vardy working tirelessly up front, chasing lost causes and generally making a nuisance of himself, Sevilla were never allowed to '''settle''' on a night when the atmosphere was electric inside the King Power Stadium.}}
#: {{ux|en|the weather '''settled''';&nbsp; wait until the crowd '''settles''' before speaking}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become firm, dry, and hard, like the ground after the effects of rain or frost have disappeared.
#: {{ux|en|the roads '''settled''' late in the spring.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become clear due to the sinking of sediment. {{q|Used especially of liquid. also used figuratively.}}
#* {{w|Joseph Addison}}
#*: A government, on such occasions, is always thick before it '''settles'''.
#: {{ux|en|wine '''settles''' by standing}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To sink to the bottom of a body of liquid, as dregs of a liquid, or the sediment of a reservoir.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, for example the foundation of a house, etc.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become compact due to sinking.
#: {{ux|en|the chips in the bag of potato chips '''settled''' during shipping}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement on matters in dispute.
#: {{ux|en|He has '''settled''' with his creditors.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To conclude a lawsuit by agreement of the parties rather than a decision of a court.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To make a [[jointure]] for a spouse.
#* {{w|Samuel Garth}}
#*: He sighs with most success that '''settles''' well.
# {{lb|en|transitive|of an|animal}} To [[impregnate]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1926 |title=Farmers' Bulletin - Issues 801-825|author=|page= |ISBN= |passage=Some mares do not show signs of being in heat even when tried ("teased") regularly with a stallion, but they often can be '''settled''' either by natural or artificial service, provided the approximate time of ovulation is determined and they are not suffering from either a diseased or abnormal condition of the reproductive system. }}
#* '''2010''', Heather Smith Thomas, ''Storey's Guide to Raising Horses, 2nd Edition'' {{ISBN|1603426876}}:
#*: Those sperm may still be viable, enabling the stallion to '''settle''' mares for a while until he runs out of mature sperm and has no more coming on because of the gap in production while he was sick or injured.
#* '''2012''', Cherry Hill, ''Cherry Hill's Horsekeeping Almanac'' {{ISBN|1603428372}}:
#*: However, even a stallion with low volume, poor-quality semen, if properly managed, can adequately '''settle''' mares.
# {{rfv-sense|lang=en}} {{lb|en|intransitive|of an|animal}} To become [[pregnant]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1928 |title=The journal of heredity - Volume 19 |author=|page=415 |ISBN= |passage=During March, 1926, two more mares were bred to him and on February 14, 1927 one of them foaled a perfectly formed bay stud foal. It is not known whether or not the other mare '''settled''' for she was never returned for trial. }}
#* {{quote-book|year=1977  |title=Stud Managers' Handbook - Volume 13 |author=|page=153 |ISBN= |passage=This older mare created many, many problems for us in terms of trying to get the mare to '''settle'''. She came to us in January, and her record shows fairly consistent heats, but she had numerous problems which will be outlined in Example l0. }}
#* {{quote-book|year=2017 |title=Living Legend|author=Jacob (Jack) Moorman |page= |ISBN=1635681030 |passage=There are several kinds of hormones available that may help your mare to '''settle''' properly in case she is difficult to get in foal. }}


=====Alternative forms=====
* [[sattle]] {{q|in several British dialects}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|en|adjust}}
* {{l|en|arrange}}
* {{l|en|compose}}
* {{l|en|decide}}
* {{l|en|determine}}
* {{l|en|establish}}
* {{l|en|fix}}
* {{l|en|regulate}}

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|to place in a fixed or permanent condition}} {{l|en|remove}}
* {{l|en|disturb}}
* {{l|en|agitate}}
* {{l|en|wander}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{der3|[[settle bed]] {{qualifier|British, a bed convertible into a seat}}|settle down|settle for|settle in|settle on|[[settle the land]] {{qualifier|obsolete, nautical: to cause land to appear to sink (that is, to cause it to appear lower) by receding away from it}}|settle up|settle upon|lang=en|settleable}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|settlement}}
* {{l|en|settler}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to determine}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|socraigh}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|resolver}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place in a fixed or permanent condition}}
* French: {{t+|fr|installer}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|socraigh}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|取り付ける|tr=toritsukeru}}, {{t+|ja|据える|tr=sueru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pūwhenua}}, {{t|mi|whakanoho}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|ehantsi|alt=hwehantsi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fix one's residence}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اِسْتَعْمَرَ}}, {{t+|ar|اِسْتَوْطَنَ}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|殖民|tr=zhímín|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|定居|tr=dìngjū|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|安家落戶|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|安家落户|tr=ānjiāluòhù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|[[usadit]] se}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vestigen}}, {{t+|nl|settelen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|enloĝiĝi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|s'installer}}, {{t+|fr|coloniser}}, {{t+|fr|s'habituer}}
* German: {{t+|de|siedeln}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|居着く|tr=いつく, itsuku}}, {{t|ja|落ち着く|tr=おちつく, ochitsuku}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Latin: {{t|la|sedeo}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakataiwhenua}}, {{t|mi|pūwhenua}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|bosette}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сели́ться}}, {{t+|ru|заселя́ть}}, {{t+|ru|колонизи́ровать}} {{qualifier|colonise}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yerleşmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|urovnat}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הסכים|m|tr=hiskim}}, {{t+|he|הגיע לעמק השווה|m|tr=higi`a le`emeq hashaveh}}
* Ido: {{t+check|io|quitigar}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|socraigh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|解決|alt=解決する|tr=kaiketsu suru}}, {{t|ja|鎮める|tr=shizumeru}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatatū}}
* Norman: {{t-check|nrf|settler}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{PIE root|en|sed}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|settle}}, {{m|enm|setle}}, {{m|enm|setel}}, {{m|enm|setil}}, {{m|enm|seotel}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|setl||that upon which one sits, a seat, a settle, a place to sit}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*setlaz||a seat; arm-chair}}, representing {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*sed-lo-}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*sed-||sit}}. Cognate with Dutch {{m|nl|zetel}}, German {{m|de|Sessel}}, Latin {{m|la|sella}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|archaic}} A [[seat]] of any kind.
#* Hampole:
#*: upon the '''settle''' of his majesty
#* Joshua Sylvester:
#*: If hunger drive the Pagans from their dens,
#*: One, 'gainst a '''settle''' breaketh both his shins;
#* John Richard Green:
#*: [The] Queen or eorl's wife, with a train of maidens, bore ale-bowl or mead-bowl round the hall, from the high '''settle''' of king or ealdorman in the midst to the mead benches ranged around its walls, while the gleeman sang the hero-songs
# {{lb|en|now|rare}} A long [[bench]] with a high back and arms, often with chest or storage space underneath.
#* Scott, ''Marmion'':
#*: On oaken '''settle''' Marmion sate, And view'd around the blazing hearth.
#* J. W. Palmer, ''After his Kind'':
#*: By the fireside, the big arm-chair [...] fondly cronied with two venerable '''settles''' within the chimney corner.
#* Thomas Hardy
#*: Of these, five women, wearing gowns of various bright hues, sat in chairs along the wall; girls shy and not shy filled the window-bench; four men, including Charley Jake the hedge-carpenter, Elijah New the parish-clerk, and John Pitcher, a neighboring dairyman, the shepherd's father-in-law, lolled in the '''settle'''.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower than some other part. {{q|Compare a ''[[depression]]''.}}
#* Bible, Ezekiel xliii. 14
#*: And from the bottom upon the ground, even to the lower '''settle''', shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit.

===References===
* {{R:OneLook}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|ettles|tetels}}