==English==

===Etymology===
From the {{etyl|ang|-}} sceal "I shall, I must, I owe, ought to, must"; past tense sceolde, "I should, ought". A common Germanic preterite-present verb from Proto-Germanic *skal-, *skul- meaning "to owe, be under obligation". Allied to {{etyl|ang|-}} scyld "debt, guilt" through the past tense sceolde.

Compare Dutch ''[[zal]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|stressed}} {{IPA|/ˈʃæl/}}, {{SAMPA|/"S{l/}}
* {{a|unstressed}} {{IPA|/ʃəl/}}, {{SAMPA|/S@l/}}
* {{audio|en-us-shall.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æl}}

===Verb===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-verb|inf= - |shall|-|should|-}}

# {{context|modal auxiliary verb|defective}} {{non-gloss definition|Used before a verb to indicate the simple future tense, particularly in the first person singular or plural.}}
#: ''I '''shall''' sing in the choir tomorrow''
# {{non-gloss definition|Used similarly to indicate determination or obligation, particularly in the second and third persons singular and plural.}}
#: (''determination''): ''You '''shall''' go to the ball!''
#: (''obligation''): ''Citizens '''shall''' provide proof of identity.''
# {{non-gloss definition|Used in questions to suggest a possible future action.}}
#: '''''Shall''' we go out later?''
# {{obsolete}} To [[owe]].
{{rfex}}

====Usage notes====
* ''Shall'' is about one fourth as common relative to ''will'' in North America as in the UK. Some in North America may consider it formal or even [[pompous]].
* In the past, ''will'' and ''shall'' have been used similarly as auxiliary verbs for the future tense. The simple future tense traditionally uses ''shall'' for the first person ("I" and "we"), and '''will''' for the second and third persons.
*: ''I '''shall''' go.''
*: ''You '''will''' go.''
* An emphatic future tense, with a sense of {{term|must}}, reverses the two words, using ''will'' for the first person and ''shall'' for the second and third person.
*: ''I '''will''' go.''
*: ''You '''shall''' go.''
* Usage can be reversed in questions and in dependent clauses&mdash;especially with indirect discourse. For example: '''''Shall''' you do it?'' is equivalent in meaning to '''''Will''' you do it?'' as it anticipates your response ''I '''shall''' do it.'' Or: ''he says that he '''shall''' win'' or ''he expects that he '''shall''' win'' report his saying ''I '''shall''' win'', not ''I '''will''' win.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|indicating the simple future tense}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zullen}}
* French: '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense''
*: I shall sing tomorrow - ''Je chanterai demain''
* Italian: '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense''
*: I shall sing tomorrow - ''Canterò domani''
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skulle}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ska}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|sille|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicating determination or obligation}}
* French: (''indicating determination'') '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense, which can be emphasised using "bien" or a similar adverbial construction''; (''indicating obligation'') [[devoir]], [[être]] [[obliger|obligé]] de
*: You shall go to the ball! - ''Mais tu iras bien au bal!'' or ''Ah oui, tu iras au bal!''
*: Citizens shall provide identity - ''Les citoyens doivent fournir une pièce d'identité'' or ''Les citoyens sont obligés de fournir une pièce d'identité''
* Italian: (''indicating determination'') '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense, which can be emphasised using "sì che" or a similar adverbial construction''; (''indicating obligation'') [[dovere]], [[essere]] [[obbligare|obbligato]] di
*: You shall go to the ball! - ''Sì che andrai al ballo!''
*: Citizens shall provide identity - ''I cittadini devono fornire identificazione'' or ''I cittadini sono obbligati a fornire identificazione''
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|debeo}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skulle}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|borde}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in questions to suggest a possible future action}}
* French: '''shall''' ''followed by the infinitive is translated by'' si ''and the imperfect tense, or, informally, without'' si ''and with the present tense''
*: Shall we go out later? - ''Si nous sortions plus tard?'' or ''Sortons plus tard?''
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: '''shall''' ''followed by the infinitive is translated by the present tense''
*: Shall we go out later? - ''Usciamo più tardi?''
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skulle}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ska}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[ought]]
* [[shalt]]
* [[shan't]]
* [[should]]
* [[will]]
* [[Appendix:English tag questions]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|down|good|never|100|shall|most|where|those}}

===Anagrams===
* [[halls#English|halls]]

[[Category:English auxiliary verbs]]
[[Category:English defective verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:shall]]
[[es:shall]]
[[fr:shall]]
[[ko:shall]]
[[io:shall]]
[[it:shall]]
[[ku:shall]]
[[lo:shall]]
[[la:shall]]
[[hu:shall]]
[[ml:shall]]
[[my:shall]]
[[nl:shall]]
[[ja:shall]]
[[pl:shall]]
[[simple:shall]]
[[fi:shall]]
[[sv:shall]]
[[ta:shall]]
[[te:shall]]
[[tr:shall]]
[[vi:shall]]