{{also|Shanghai|Shanghái|shānghài|Shanghaï|Shànghǎi|Shang-hai}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2008|April|23}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|slingshot}} {{l|en|shangeye}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/ˈʃæŋ.haɪ/|/ʃæŋˈhaɪ/|/ʃɑŋˈhaɪ/}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ʃæŋˈhaɪ/|/ˈʃæŋ.haɪ/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-Shanghai.wav|Audio (Southern England)}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-Shanghai2.wav|Audio (Southern England)}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-shanghai.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-shanghai.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|aɪ|s=2}}

===Etymology 1===
From the important Chinese port {{m|en|Shanghai}} (q.v.), as a verb with reference to the former practice by some shippers on the [[West Coast]] of the [[United States]] of {{l|en|press-ganging}} crews for fishing or shipping in the [[Pacific Ocean]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[force]] or [[trick]] [[someone]] to [[go]] [[somewhere]] or [[do]] [[something]] [[against one's will|against their will]] or [[interest]], ''[[particularly]]''
#* '''1974''' September 30, ‘[http://www.xfamily.org/index.php/Final_Report_on_the_Activities_of_the_Children_of_God#4._Attitude_Toward_Education Final Report on the Activities of the Children of God]',
#*: Oftentimes the approach is to '''shanghai''' an unsuspecting victim.
#* {{RQ:Atwood Handmaid|page=143|passage=Their power had a flaw to it. They could be '''shanghaied''' in toilets.}}
#* '''1999''' June 24, ‘The Resurrection of Tom Waits’, in ''Rolling Stone'', quoted in ''Innocent When You Dream'', Orion (2006), page 256,
#*: It was the strangest galley: the sounds, the steam, he's screaming at his coworkers. I felt like I'd been '''shanghaied'''.
## To [[press-gang]] [[sailor]]s, ''[[especially]]'' {{lb|en|historical}} for [[shipping]] or [[fishing]] [[work]].
##* {{quote-book|en|year=1923|chapter=2|chapterurl={{fullurl:s:en:Somewhere in the Caribbean/Chapter 2}}|title=Somewhere in the Caribbean|author=Francis Lynde|authorlink=Francis Lynde|passage=By this time I hadn't much doubt of the nature of the trap and the identity of the trapping vessel. The faint smell of alcohol in the forehold told the story. I had been sandbagged and taken aboard a bootlegging craft, '''shanghaied''' in good old-fashioned style; and the vessel was probably now on its way to the Bahamas for a cargo of spirits.}}
## {{lb|en|US|_|police|_|slang}} To [[trick]] a [[suspect]] into [[enter]]ing a [[jurisdiction]] in which they [[can]] be [[lawfully]] [[arrest]]ed.
## {{lb|en|US|_|military|_|slang}} To [[transfer]] a [[serviceman]] [[against one's will|against their will]].
##* Eugene Cunningham, "A One-Man Navy":
##*: “Why, if you so loved and cherished the armed guard,” Captain Banning continued, “did you arrange for transfer?”<br>“I never, sir! ... But he '''shanghaied''' me out of the armed guard pronto.”
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[commandeer]], [[hijack]], or [[otherwise]] ([[usually]] [[wrongfully]]) [[appropriate]] a [[place]] or [[thing]].
#: {{ux|en|Let's see if we can '''shanghai''' a room for a couple of hours.}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|shanghaier}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to force or trick into work, especially joining a ship}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|強迫}}, {{t+|cmn|誘騙}}
* Danish: {{t|da|shanghaje}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|sjanghaaien}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|shanghaijata}}
* German: {{t+|de|schanghaien}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|elrabol}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|shanghai-áil}}
* Italian: {{t|it|arruolare a forza}}
* Spanish: [[emborrachar]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sjanghaja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|often|_|capitalized|dated}} A [[breed]] of [[chicken]] with [[large]] [[bodies]], [[long]] [[leg]]s, and [[feather]]ed [[shank]]s.
#* '''1853''',  W.B. Tegetmeier, ''Profitable Poultry'', p. 19:
#*: [[Cochin]]s or '''Shanghaes'''.
# {{lb|en|US|obsolete}} A [[kind]] of [[daub]].
#* '''1880 Jan.''', ''Scribner's Monthly'', p. 365:
#*: The ‘'''shanghai'''’ is the glaring daub required by some frame-makers for cheap auctions. They are turned out at so much by the day's labor, or at from $12 to $24 a dozen, by the piece.
# {{lb|en|US|obsolete}} A [[tall]] [[dandy]].
# {{lb|en|darts|often|_|capitalized}} A [[kind]] of [[darts|dart game]] in which [[player]]s are [[gradually]] [[eliminate]]d ("[[shanghaied]]"), [[usually]] [[either]] by [[fail]]ing to [[reach]] a [[certain]] [[score]] in 3 [[quick]] [[throw]]s or during a [[competition]] to [[hit]] a [[certain]] [[prechosen]] [[number]] and [[then]] be the [[first]] to [[hit]] the [[prechosen]] [[number]]s of the [[other]] [[player]]s.
#* '''1930''', ''Anchor Magazine'', p. 196:
#*: ‘'''Shanghai'''’ may be played by teams of 8, in pairs, individually, or, in fact, any number.
#* '''1977 May 10''', ''Daily Mirror'', p. 30:
#*: The hot twenty—including local favourites George Simmons, Tony Brown, Mick Norris and Lew Walker—have to sweat through nineteen 501s, one 1,001, one 2,001, one [[round-the-board-on-doubles]], one '''shanghai''' and one [[halve-it]].

=====Usage notes=====
The chicken breed is now generally subsumed into the {{l|en|brahma}} and {{l|en|cochin}} categories.

===Etymology 2===
From Scottish {{m|en|shangan}}, from {{etyl|gd|en}} {{m|gd|seangan}}, influenced by the Chinese city.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|AU|NZ}} {{synonym of|en|slingshot}}.
#* '''1863 Oct. 24''', ''Leader'', p. 17:
#*: Turn, turn thy '''shang~hay''' dread aside,<br>Nor touch that little bird
#* '''1985''', {{w|Peter Carey}}, ''Illywhacker'', Faber and Faber 2003, p. 206:
#*: They scrounged around the camp {{...}} and held out their filthy wings to the feeble sun, making themselves an easy target for Charles's '''shanghai'''.
#* {{quote-journal|1=en|year=2020|author=Parliament of Singapore|title=Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Bill|journal=Republic of Singapore Government Gazette|url=https://www.parliament.gov.sg/docs/default-source/default-document-library/guns-explosives-and-weapons-control-bill-44-2020.pdf|page=161|text=However, certain objects are excluded from being treated as a gun. These include a longbow, crossbow, slingshot or '''shanghai''' even though it is capable of propelling a projectile by means of an explosive force.}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|AU|NZ}} To [[hit]] with a [[slingshot]].

===References===
* {{R:OED Online|shanghai|n|177470|2020}}
* {{R:OED Online|shanghai|v|177471|2019}}
* {{R:Merriam-Webster|shanghai}}
* {{R:Cambridge|shanghai}}
* {{R:Collins English Dictionary|shanghai}}.
* "[https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Twentieth_Century_Dictionary_1908/Serpet_Shilly-shally#Shanghai shanghai]" in [https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Twentieth_Century_Dictionary_1908 ''Chambers's Twentieth Century Dictionary''], 1908.
* Patridge, Eric. ''Origins: A Short Etymological Dictionary of Modern English,'' 2006, [https://books.google.com/books?id=9fbpc7iyL2UC&pg=PA613 p. 613].

[[Category:English terms derived from toponyms]]
[[Category:en:Weapons]][[Category:en:Chickens]]