==English==
{{see|in shape}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|shāp}}, {{IPA|/ʃeɪp/}}, {{SAMPA|/SeIp/}}
* {{audio|en-us-shape.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪp}}

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[sceap]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[status]] or [[condition]] of something
#:* The used bookshop wouldn't offer much due to the poor '''shape''' of the book.
# [[condition|Condition]] of personal [[health]], especially muscular health.
#:* The vet checked to see what kind of '''shape''' the animal was in.
#:* We exercise to keep in good physical '''shape'''.
# The [[appearance]] of something, especially its [[outline]].
#:* He cut a square '''shape''' out of the cake.
# A [[figure]] with unspecified appearance; especially a [[geometric]] figure.
#:* What '''shape''' shall we use for the cookies?  Stars, circles, or diamonds?

=====Derived terms=====
{{top3}}
* [[contest shape]]
* [[in no shape to]]
* [[in no way, shape, or form]]
* [[in shape]]
{{mid3}}
* [[out of shape]]
* [[shapeless]]
* [[shapely]]
* [[shape-shifter]], [[shape-shifting]]
{{mid3}}
* [[shipshape]]
* [[take shape]]
* [[the shape of things to come]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|status or condition}}
* Chinese: [[样子]] (yàngzi)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|stav|m}}, {{t-|cs|forma|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|staat}}, {{t+|nl|status}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kunto}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zustand|m}}, {{t-|de|Form|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|מצב|matsáv}} {{m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|様子|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|ようす|tr=yōsu|sc=Jpan}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|form|c}}, {{t+|sv|tillstånd|n}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|స్థితి|sc=Telu}}(sthiti)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|condition of personal health, especially muscular health}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|forma|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vorm}}, {{t+|nl|conditie}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kunto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|appearance or outline}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[شكل]]}} {{IPAchar|(šakl)}}
* Chinese: [[形狀]], [[形状]] (xíngzhuàng)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|tvar|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vorm}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muoto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|forme|f}}
* German: {{t-|de|Form|f}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|צורה|tsurá}} {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|alak}}, {{t+|hu|forma}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|forma|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[形]], [[かたち]] (katachi); [[型]], [[かた]] (kata)
* Korean: [[모양]] (moyang)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kształt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|forma|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|форма|f|tr=fórma|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|oblika|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|forma|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|form|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|ఆకారం|sc=Telu}}(aakaaram),{{t|te|ఆకృతి|sc=Telu}} (aakruti)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|figure}}
* Chinese: [[形状]], [[外形]] (wàixíng)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|tvar|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vorm}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muoto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|forme|f}}
* German: {{t-|de|Form|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|צורה|tsurá}} {{f}}
* Japanese: [[形]] ([[かたち]], katachi); [[形状]]([[けいじょう]], [[keijō]]), [[形態]], [[けいたい]] (keitai)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|oblika|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|form|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|ఆకారం|sc=Telu}}(aakaaram),{{t|te|ఆకృతి|sc=Telu}}(aakruti)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: forma
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[formo]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[formo]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bentuk]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[forma]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[forma]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
*[[Appendix:Forms and shapes]]
===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[scieppan]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|shapes|shaping|shaped|'''[[shaped]]''' or '''[[shapen]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To give something a shape and [[definition]].
#:* '''Shape''' the dough into a pretzel.
#:* For my art project, I plan to '''shape''' my clay lump into a bowl.
#* '''1932''', ''The American Scholar'', page 227, United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa
#*: The professor never pretended to the academic prerogative of forcing his students into his own channels of reasoning; he entered into and helped '''shape''' the discussion but above all he made his men learn to think for themselves and rely upon their own intellectual judgments.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{italbrac-colon|give shape}} [[form]], [[mold]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[shape up]]
* [[shape up or ship out]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to give something a [[shape]]}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[formar]]
* Chinese: 使[[成形]] (shǐ chéngxíng)
* Czech: [[utvářet]], [[formovat]]
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|formi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[muotoilla]], [[muovata]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|formen}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|לעצב|le`atsév}}
* [[Ido]]: [[formacar]]
* Irish: {{t|ga|cum}}
* Slovene: [[oblikovati]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Shapes]]

[[ang:shape]]
[[fa:shape]]
[[fr:shape]]
[[hy:shape]]
[[io:shape]]
[[it:shape]]
[[kk:shape]]
[[ku:shape]]
[[hu:shape]]
[[nl:shape]]
[[ja:shape]]
[[pl:shape]]
[[ru:shape]]
[[simple:shape]]
[[fi:shape]]
[[sv:shape]]
[[ta:shape]]
[[te:shape]]
[[vi:shape]]
[[zh:shape]]