{{also|shát}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
A late innovation, apparently by analogy with {{m|en|sit}} → {{m|en|sat}}; {{m|en|spit}} → {{m|en|spat}}, etc.<ref>Bruce L. Derwing, Royal Skousen, ''Productivity and the English Past Tense'', in ''The Reality of Linguistic Rules'', page 202</ref><ref>''Survival of the Strongest'', in ''Studies in the History of the English Language V'' (2010, {{ISBN|3110220326}}, page 101: What may come as a surprise, depending on the framework in which one operates, is that ''sit'' must have been largely responsible for the preterite ''shat'' of ''shit'' and probably the preterite ''spat'' of ''spit''. ''Shit'' should conjugate ''shite''~''shote'', and ''spit'' was originally weak (OED).</ref> First recorded in the eighteenth century.<ref name="'shit' entry at Etymology Online Dictionary">{{cite-web|url=http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=shit|title=Etymology Online Dictionary: 'shit'|last=Harper|first=Douglas|date=2001|work=Etymology Online Dictionary|publisher=Douglas Harper|accessdate=2009-04-13}}</ref>

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|en|/ʃæt/}}
* {{rhymes|en|æt}}

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|shit}}
#* '''1999''', {{w|Julian O'Neill}}, quoted in Peter Moss, "[http://workers.labor.net.au/12/b_sportspage_pete.html Let He Without Sin Kick The First Goal]", in ''Workers Online'' number 12 (1999 May 7):
#*: Hey Schlossie [=Jeremy Schloss], I just '''shat''' in your shoe.
#* {{quote-book|en|title=[[w:Every Living Thing (book)|Every Living Thing]]|author={{w|Rob Dunn}}|year=2009|passage=We all lived in small communities, hunted, and foraged. We '''shat''' in the woods.}}

===Etymology 2===
{{der|en|ar|شَطّ}}; see {{m|en|chott}}; for the spelling, compare {{l|en|Shatt al-Arab}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|en|/ʃʌt/}}<ref>{{R:Century 1914}}</ref>
* {{rhymes|en|ʌt}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{altform|en|chott}}
#* '''1902''', ''The Encyclopaedia Britannica, Tenth Edition; {{...|The New Volumes of the Encyclopaedia Britannica: Constituting in Combination with the Existing Volumes of the Ninth Edition, the Tenth Edition of that Work, and Also Supplying a New, Distinctive, and Independent Library of Reference Dealing with Recent Events and Developments}}'', page 482:
#*: All this region round the '''shats''' has been called the “Jerid” from the time of the Arab occupation.

===Etymology 3===
Sometimes said to be a shortening of an obsolete word {{m|en||(*)shattle|needle}}<!-- (compare {{m|en|shass||heap of straw}}?)-->,<ref>J. A. Cope of the Maryland State Department of Forestry, ''Loblolly Pine in Maryland: A Handbook for Growers and Users'' (1923), page 3: [...] so it frequently gets the designation of long-leaf pine, or long-needled pine, or more commonly, especially in Somerset County &quot;long-shat pine&quot; — shat, or shattle, being an obsolete word for needle.</ref><ref>Ella C. Emery of the Delaware Commission for Conservation of Forests, ‎''Report of Commission for the Conservation of Forests in Delaware'' (1926), page 27: The needles of this pine are from 6 to 8 inches long and for that reason, in the regions where it abounds, it is often called long shat pine; that being an abbreviation or contraction of the obsolete word shattle, meaning needle. It is so termed as a matter of distinguishing it from scrub pine ...</ref> but more likely a shortening of the synonymous {{m|en|shatter|(pine) shatter}}.<ref>Theophilus Tunis, ''Forestry for Profit: How the Woodlot Can be Made to Pay'' (1923), page 72: An artificial planting of loblolly pine I knew forty years ago, planted for a convenient or near-by supply of pine needles known in various localities by the various names of pine shats or shatters, pine straw or litter, [...]</ref>

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|en|/ʃæt/}}
* {{rhymes|en|æt}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|Maryland|Delaware}}<!--?--> {{synonym of|en|shatter||a pine needle}}.
#* '''1921''', ''Whitelock vs Dennis'' (decision on appeal), in the ''Reports of Cases Argued and Determined in the Court of Appeals of Maryland'', page 559:
#*: Dryden used the car that afternoon to get '''shats''' for the hog pen of Ollie Hitchens, who [...] gave Dryden a dollar for his services in getting the '''shats''' [...] some pine '''shats''' for his father.
#* '''2012''', Rob Wilgus, ''Sickle'', Trafford Publishing ({{ISBN|9781466939059}}), page 225:
#*: A small, well known, pine '''shat''' covered path pushed between two rows of trees.

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ahst|ATHs|HATs|Tash|has't|hast|hats|tash|thas}}

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]

----

==Albanian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|sq|shatë}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sqj-pro|sq}} {{m|sqj-pro|*śaktā}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*sē̆k||to cut}}.{{attention|ine-pro|is there a more standard way of spelling the ine-pro root's name? is it the same root as shat#English refers back to?}} Cognate to {{cog|la|secula||sickle}}, {{m|la|sacena||pick-axe of the pontifix}}.<ref>{{R:sq:Demiraj|page=358}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sq|/ʃat/}}

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|m|shata}}

# [[heart]]-[[shaped]] [[hoe]], [[mattock]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:sq:Tools]]

----

==Hausa==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|ha|en|shirt}}

===Noun===
{{head|ha|noun|head=shât|g=f}}

# [[shirt]]

[[Category:ha:Clothing]]

----

==Kriol==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|rop}} {{m|en|shot}}

===Noun===
{{head|rop|noun}}

# [[attempt]]