==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/SEd/}}
* {{IPA|/ʃɛd/}}
* [[w:AHD|AHD]]: /shěd/
* {{audio|en-us-shed.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*: {{rhymes|ɛd}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|sceadan|lang=ang}}, from {{Ger.}}.  Cognate with Dutch [[scheiden]], German [[scheiden]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|sheds|shedding|shed}}

# {{context|transitive|archaic}} To [[part]] or [[divide]].
#: ''A metal comb '''shed''' her golden hair.''
# {{context|transitive|archaic}} To [[pour]]; to make flow.
#: ''I have '''shed''' the blood of our enemies.''
# {{transitive}} To allow to [[flow]] or fall.
#: ''I didn't '''shed''' many tears when he left me.''
# {{transitive}} To [[radiate]], [[cast]],  [[give off]]
#: ''Can you '''shed''' any light on this problem?''
# {{context|transitive|intransitive}} To [[cast off]], to let fall, be divested of.
#: ''When we found the snake, it was in the process of '''shedding''' its skin.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to part or divide}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|splijten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|séparer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to pour; to make flow}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vergieten}}
* French: {{t+|fr|verser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|verter|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to allow to flow or fall}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|storten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|derramar|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to radiate, cast, give off}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|werpen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cast off, to let fall, be divested of}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|afwerpen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[verter]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|scead|scēad|lang=ang}}, from {{Ger.}}.  Cognate with German [[Scheitel]] ‘hair parting’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|weaving}} An area between upper and lower [[warp]] yarns through which the [[weft]] is woven.
# {{obsolete}} A [[distinction]] or dividing-line.
# {{obsolete}} A [[parting]] in the hair.
# {{obsolete}} An area of land as distinguished from those around it.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[watershed]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|area between upper and lower warp yarns}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vire}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[divisória]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Variant of ''[[shade]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small [[wooden]] [[construction]] to [[store]] [[tool]]s.
# {{context|UK|derogatory|informal}} An [[automobile]] which is old, worn-out, slow, or otherwise of poor quality.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|loods}}, {{t+|nl|schuur}}
* Finnish: [[liiteri]], [[vaja]], [[katos]]
* German: {{t+|de|Schuppen|m}}
{{mid}}
* Portuguese: [[barracão]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cobertizo|m}}
* Swedish: [[skjul]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[cabin]]
* [[hovel]]
* [[hut]]
* [[kiosk]]
* [[outbuilding]]
{{mid2}}
* [[pergola]]
* [[shack]]
* [[shanty]]
* [[stall]]
* [[storehouse]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[ar:shed]]
[[et:shed]]
[[el:shed]]
[[fr:shed]]
[[io:shed]]
[[it:shed]]
[[hu:shed]]
[[pl:shed]]
[[ru:shed]]
[[simple:shed]]
[[fi:shed]]
[[ta:shed]]
[[te:shed]]
[[vi:shed]]
[[uk:shed]]
[[zh:shed]]