==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|əʊ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|shews|shewing|shewed|'''[[shewed]]''' ''or'' '''[[shewn]]'''}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} {{alternate form of|show}}

====Quotations====
* {{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Genesis 12:1
*: Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will '''shew''' thee:
* {{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Ruth 2:19
*: And she '''shewed''' her mother in law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man's name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz. 
* {{quote-book
|year= 1774
|year_published= 
|author= 
|by= {{w|Le Page Du Pratz}}
|title= The History of Louisiana: Or of the Western Parts of Virginia and Carolina: Containing a Description of the Countries that Lie on Both Sides of the River Mississippi: with an Account of the Settlements, Inhabitants, Soil, Climate, and Products
|url= http://books.google.com/books?id=zEoUAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA42
|original= 
|chapter= The Governor surprized the Natchez with seven hundred Men.
|section= 
|isbn= 
|edition= 
|publisher= T. Becket
|location= London
|editor= 
|volume= 
|page= 42
|passage= I give it you without any other design than to '''shew''' you that I reckon nothing dear to me, when I want to do you a pleasure.
}}
* '''1786''': Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page xiv.
*: The section '''shewing''' its concavity and handle.
* '''1843''': [[:w:Thomas Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', Book 2, Ch. 5, ''Twelfth Century''
*: We have Processions, Preachings, Festivals, Christmas Plays, Mysteries '''shewn''' in the Churchyard, at which latter the Townsfolk sometimes quarrel.
* '''1884''': [[w:Edwin A. Abbott|Edwin A. Abbott]], ''[[w:Flatland|Flatland]]'', Sec. 4, ''Concerning the Women''
*: But, as I shall soon '''shew''', this custom, though it has the advantage of safety, is not without its disadvantages.
* {{quote-book
|year= 1913
|year_published= 1967
|author= {{w|John Bagnell Bury}}
|by= {{w|Carl Heinrich Becker}}
|title= The Cambridge Medieval History
|url= 
|original= 
|chapter= The Expansion of the Saracens—The East; Historical aspect of Islam
|section= The Rise of the Saracens and the foundation of the Western Empire
|isbn= 
|edition= 
|publisher= The Macmillan Company
|location= New York
|editor= {{w|Henry Melvill Gwatkin}} and {{w|James Pounder Whitney}}
|volume= 2
|page= 330
|passage= Within the Christian sphere this current '''shews''' itself more especially in the territories of the Greek and Aramaic languages, and the difference between the Greek and Latin Churches is mainly that between Asia and Europe.
}}
* '''1921''': Marcel Proust translated by C. K. Moncrieff, ''Swann's Way'', page 1.
*: I would ask myself what o'clock it could be; I could hear the whistling of trains, which, now nearer and now farther off, punctuating the distance like the note of a bird in a forest, '''shewed''' me in perspective the deserted countryside through which a traveller would be hurrying towards the nearest station: the path that he followed being fixed forever in his memory but the general excitement due to being in a strange place, to farewells exchanged beneath an unfamiliar lamp which echoed still in his ears amid the silence of the night; and to the delightful prospect of being once again at home.

===Verb===
'''shew'''

# {{qualifier|[[East Anglia]] dialect}} {{en-simple past of|show}}
#: ''As I travelled the signposts '''shew''' me the way.''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} A [[show]].

===Anagrams===
* [[hews#English|hews]]

[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[de:shew]]
[[fa:shew]]
[[hu:shew]]
[[ml:shew]]
[[my:shew]]
[[ja:shew]]
[[pl:shew]]
[[ru:shew]]
[[sv:shew]]
[[te:shew]]
[[vi:shew]]