==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʃuːt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"Su:t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-shoot.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|uːt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|sceotan|scēotan||lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|skeutanan|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|(s)keud-|lang=en}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|schieten||lang=nl}}, German {{term|schießen||lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|skjuta||lang=sv}}; and also Russian {{term|sc=Cyrl|кидать|tr=kidát'|lang=ru}} and Lithuanian {{term|skudrus|skudrùs||lang=lt}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|shoots|shooting|shot|'''[[shot]]''', or rarely '''[[shotten]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To [[fire]] a [[projectile]] or [[energy]] [[weapon]] at.
#: ''The man, in a desperate bid for freedom, grabbed his gun and started '''shooting''' anyone he could.''
# {{intransitive|usually, as imperative}} To begin to speak.
#: ''&mdash; Can I ask you a question?''
#: ''&mdash; '''Shoot.'''''
#: ''&mdash; Okay, when was the battle of Hastings fought?''
# {{transitive}} To [[hit]] with a projectile or energy beam from such a weapon.
#: ''He was '''shot''' by a police officer.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[move]] very [[quickly]] and [[suddenly]].
#: ''After an initial lag, the experimental group's scores '''shot''' past the control group's scores in the fourth week.''
#* '''1884''': {{w|Mark Twain}}, {{w|The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn}}, Chapter VII
#*: It didn't take me long to get there. I '''shot''' past the head at a ripping rate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water and landed on the side towards the Illinois shore.
# {{transitive}} To [[dismiss]] or [[do away with]].
#: ''His idea was '''shot''' on sight.''
# {{transitive}} To [[photograph]].
#: ''He '''shot''' the couple in a variety of poses.''<!--direct object: subject-->
#: ''He '''shot''' seventeen stills.''<!-- direct object: picture-->
# {{context|professional wrestling}} To deviate from [[kayfabe]], either intentionally or accidentally; to actually connect with unchoreographed fighting blows and maneuvers, or speak one's mind (instead of an agreed-to script).
# {{surveying}} To [[measure]] the [[distance]] and [[direction]] to (a point).
# {{sports}} To make the stated score.
#: ''In my round of golf yesterday I '''shot''' a 76.''
# {{slang}} To [[ejaculate]].
#: ''After a very short time, he '''shot''' his load over the carpet.''
# To go over or pass quickly through.
#: '''''shoot''' the rapids''
# {{transitive}} To tip (something, especially [[coal]]) down a [[chute]].
# {{transitive|colloquial}} To [[inject]] a [[drug]] (such as [[heroin]]) [[intravenously]].

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the verb "shoot"}}
* [[re-shoot]]
* [[shoot down]]
* [[shooter]]
* [[shoot from the hip]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[shoot from the lip]]
* [[shoot oneself in the foot]]
* [[shoot one's mouth off]]
* [[shoot the boots]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[shoot the bull]]
* [[shoot the messenger]]
* [[shoot up]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to fire a shot}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|صوب|tr=Sáwwaba}},  {{t|ar|أطلق النار|tr='aTlaqa al-naar}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կրակել|tr=krakel}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|disparar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|射|tr=shè|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|射擊|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|射击|tr=shèjī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|střelit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schieten}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pafi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ampua}}, {{t-|fi|laukaista}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* German: {{t+|de|schießen}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|ירה|tr=yaráh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lő}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|skjóta}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tembak|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|tembak|alt=menembak|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sparare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|撃つ|tr=うつ, utsu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|쏘다|tr=ssoda|sc=Hang}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|saut}}, {{tø|ltg|saudeit}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|šaut}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|šaudyti}}, {{t|lt|šauti}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skyte}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|strzelić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atirar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стрелять|tr=strelját’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|выстрелить|tr=výstrelit’}} {{pf.}}
* Slovak: [[streliť]], [[vystreliť]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|disparar}}, {{t+|es|tirar}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|kupiga risasi|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skjuta}}
* Telugu: [[కాల్చు]] (kaalchu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fire multiple shots}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|صوب|tr=Sáwwaba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կրակել|tr=krakel}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|disparar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|射|tr=shè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|střílet}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schieten}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pafi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ampua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* German: {{t+|de|schießen}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|ירה|tr=yaráh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lő}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tembak|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|tembak|alt=menembak|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sparare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|撃つ|tr=うつ, utsu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|쏘다|tr=ssoda|sc=Hang}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skyte}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|strzelać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atirar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стрелять|tr=strelját’}} {{impf}}
* Slovak: [[strieľať]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|disparar}}, {{t+|es|tirar}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|kupiga risasi|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skjuta}}
* Telugu: [[కాల్చు]] (kaalchu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hit with a shot}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|صوب|tr=Sáwwaba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կրակել|tr=krakel}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|射|tr=shè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: [[střelit]], [[zastřelit]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schieten}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pafi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[ampua]] (''+ partitive object when injuring or genitive object when killing'')
* French: {{t+|fr|tirer}}
* German: {{gloss|not killing}} [[anschießen]]; {{gloss|killing}} [[erschießen]]
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|ירה|tr=yaráh}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lő}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tembak|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|tembak|alt=menembak|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tirare}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|撃つ|tr=うつ, utsu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|쏘다|tr=ssoda|sc=Hang}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skyte}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|postrzelić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|atirar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выстрелить|tr=výstrelit’}} {{pf.}}
* Slovak: [[streliť]], [[vystreliť]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tirar}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|kupiga risasi|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skjuta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ka}}: {{t|ka|სროლა|tr=srola}}
{{checktrans-mid}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The emerging stem and embryonic leaves of a new [[plant]].
# A photography session.
# (''professional wrestling slang'') In professional wrestling, an event that is unscripted or legitimate.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|emerging stem and embryonic leaves of a new plant}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|výhonek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|verso}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pousse|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|getto|m}}, {{t+|it|germoglio}}, {{t+|it|virgulto|m}}, {{t-|it|pollone|m}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|pampinus|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|pęd|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|побег|m|tr=pobég}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|bachlag|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|ògan|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retoño|m}}, {{t-|es|vástago|m}}, {{t-|es|pimpollo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|photography session}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuvaus|p|alt=kuvaukset}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prise de photos|f}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|sesja|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|съёмка|f|tr=sjómka}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sesión fotográfica|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
[[euphemism]] for {{term|shit}}

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{non-gloss definition|A mild expletive, expressing [[disbelief]] or [[disdain]]}}
#: ''Didn't you have a concert tonight?''
#: '''''Shoot!''' I forgot! I have to go and get ready...''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|mild expletive}} [[darn]], [[dash]], [[fiddlesticks]], [[shucks]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|expressing disdain}}
<!-- Please limit to euphemisms for "shit" -->
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stik}}
* French: {{t|fr|mince}}, {{t|fr|mercredi}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|kurcze|alt=kurcze!}}, {{t|pl|kurde|alt=kurde!}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|блин|m|alt=Блин!|tr=blin}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|miércoles|m|alt=¡Miércoles!}}
{{trans-bottom}}
<!--Remove this table once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: {{t|de|Mist}}! (1), {{t|de|verdammt}}! (1), {{t|de|Los}}! (2), {{t|de|leg los}}! (2)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[hoots#English|hoots]]
* [[sooth#English|sooth]]
* [[Sotho#English|Sotho]]
* [[toosh#English|toosh]]

[[Category:English euphemisms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[cs:shoot]]
[[cy:shoot]]
[[et:shoot]]
[[el:shoot]]
[[es:shoot]]
[[eu:shoot]]
[[fa:shoot]]
[[fr:shoot]]
[[gl:shoot]]
[[ko:shoot]]
[[hr:shoot]]
[[io:shoot]]
[[id:shoot]]
[[it:shoot]]
[[kn:shoot]]
[[kk:shoot]]
[[ku:shoot]]
[[lo:shoot]]
[[lt:shoot]]
[[hu:shoot]]
[[mg:shoot]]
[[ml:shoot]]
[[my:shoot]]
[[nl:shoot]]
[[no:shoot]]
[[pl:shoot]]
[[pt:shoot]]
[[ru:shoot]]
[[simple:shoot]]
[[fi:shoot]]
[[sv:shoot]]
[[tl:shoot]]
[[ta:shoot]]
[[te:shoot]]
[[th:shoot]]
[[tr:shoot]]
[[uk:shoot]]
[[vi:shoot]]
[[zh:shoot]]