{{also|Shorty}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|shortie}}
* {{l|en|shawty}} (hip-hop)

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|short|y|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈʃɔːti/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|shorties}}

# {{lb|en|informal}} A [[short]] person.
# {{lb|en|informal}} {{non-gloss definition|A [[term of endearment]] for a child, younger sibling, shorter person, etc.}}
# {{lb|en|slang|chiefly|AAVE}} A child.
#* '''1995''', ''Vibe'', page 102:
#*: &quot;I think we loved &#39;The Bridge Is Over&#39; more than anybody else,&quot; says Nas, who  was just a '''shorty''' when he first heard the opening shot.
#* '''1997''', William Ayers, ''A kind and just parent: the children of juvenile court'', Beacon Pr:
#*: Like one day when I was just a '''shorty''' my mother was drinking a beer and a  policeman told her to pour it out. He was way too little to be saying that to my  mother. No way I was going to let him put handcuffs on her.
#* '''1997''', Robert Jackson, ''The Darkside: Chronicling the Young Black Experience'', Noble Press Incorporated:
#*: Ever since they introduced the world to Patrick Ewing and Michael  Graham, Georgetown has been the Black school of choice for every '''shorty''' [...]
#* '''2012''', Julius B. Black, ''Married To The Game'', AuthorHouse (ISBN 9781467060356), page 13:
#*: “Girl when I was just a '''shorty''', some cats from New York came through putting  down there work and muscling anybody too weak for the streets, but anyway they  shot my oldest brother, who was alright with Ju and them.
# {{lb|en|slang|chiefly|AAVE}} An attractive young female, especially one who is sexually available.
#* '''1999''', ''Vibe'':
#*: But seeing my boy on the cover of your magazine with three fine '''shorties''' made  me think twice about the assumptions I&#39;ve made.
#* '''2006''', Karen E. Quinones Miller, ''Uptown Dreams'', Simon and Schuster (ISBN 9780743296083), page 38:
#*: “Yo, man,” Vincent looked up at Sharif. “How is  it that you always have the fine '''shorties''' hanging out at your crib?”
#* {{quote-song|lyricist=|composer=|title={{w|Just Dance (song)|Just Dance}}|album={{w|The Fame}}|artist={{w|Lady Gaga}} feat. {{w|Colby O'Donis}}|year=2008|passage='''Shawty''' I can see that you got so much energy, / The way you twirling up them hips round and round}}
#* '''2015''', Ashon Thadon, ''Unpunished: some deeds go that way'', BookRix (ISBN 9783730986448):
#*: &quot;It wasn&#39;t that fine ass '''shorty''' I saw in the car earlier?&quot; Travis inquired.
# {{lb|en|slang|chiefly|AAVE}} A girlfriend.
#* '''2003''', ''Ebony'', page 34:
#*: These are the things that separate a date from a fiancee, a '''shorty''' from a wife, a one-night stand from a lifetime commitment.
#* '''2011''', A.D. King, ''"Nola's Island": Vacation From Degradation'', Trafford Publishing (ISBN 9781426994043), page 47:
#*: Demarco said pulling down his cap “Yeah, that&#39;s what I be hearing, my '''shorty''' told  me how Shelly be bragging about the time ya&#39;ll had.”
#* {{quote-song|lyricist=|composer=|title={{w|Mistletoe (Justin Bieber song)|Mistletoe}}|album={{w|Under the Mistletoe}}|artist={{w|Justin Bieber}}|year=2011|passage=I should be playin' in the winter snow, but I'ma be under the mistletoe / With you, '''shawty''' with you}}
#* '''2012''', Edd Mcnair, ''Turning Point'', Urban Books (ISBN 9781622860203), page 42:
#*: My '''shorty''' called my baby moms, I&#39;m in some shit, and all my real gear at shorty  crib.
#* '''2013''', Jah King Entertainment, ''Time 2 Set It Off!: downloadable copy'', Jah King Inc. (ISBN 9780989796200), page 90:
#*: It was my birthday weekend, and one of my '''shorties''' decided she wanted to take  a playa to Amsterdam to celebrate, we took a sightseeing tour bus and we saw  everything there was to see.
#* '''2014''', Antonio Harriston, ''Lust, Money, Envy'', iUniverse (ISBN 9781491728499), page 169:
#*: I don&#39;t give a fuck, what he wants from me, I&#39;ll give him anything to get my '''shorty''' back, I swear, he better not have hurt or touched my '''shorty''', or I&#39;m a kill &#39;em when I  see&#39;em.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a short person}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|baixinho|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʃɔʁti/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# (pair of) [[boyshorts]], [[French knickers]]

[[Category:fr:Underwear]]

[[fr:shorty]]
[[ko:shorty]]
[[ku:shorty]]
[[pl:shorty]]
[[vi:shorty]]