==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|short|lang=enm}}, {{term|schort|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|sċeort}}, {{term|scort||short|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*skurtaz||short}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*(s)k(ʷ)Art-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*(s)k(ʷ)Ard-||short}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|short|lang=sco}}, {{term|schort||short|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|scurz||short|lang=goh}} (whence {{etyl|gmh|-}} {{term|schurz|lang=gmh}}), {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|skorta||to lack|lang=non}} (whence {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|skorte|lang=da}}), Albanian {{term|shkurt||short, brief|lang=sq}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|curtus||shortened, incomplete|lang=la}}, Russian {{term|короткий||short, brief|lang=ru}}. More at {{l|en|shirt}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ʃɔːt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|shôrt}}, {{IPA|/ʃɔɹt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-short.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{a|St. Louis}} {{IPA|[ʃɑɹt]|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(ɹ)t|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Having a small distance from one end or edge to another, either [[horizontal]]ly or [[vertical]]ly.
# {{context|of a person|lang=en}} Of comparatively little [[height]].
# Having little duration; opposite of long.
#* {{quote-magazine|year=2012|month=March-April
|author=Anna Lena Phillips
|title=Sneaky Silk Moths
|volume=100|issue=2|page=172
|magazine={{w|American Scientist}}
|url=http://www.americanscientist.org/bookshelf/pub/sneaky-silk-moths
|passage=Last spring, the periodical cicadas emerged across eastern North America. Their vast numbers and '''short''' above-ground life spans inspired awe and irritation in humans—and made for good meals for birds and small mammals.}}
#: ''Our meeting was a '''short''' six minutes today. Every day for the past month it's been at least twenty minutes long.''
# {{context|followed by '''for'''|lang=en}} Of a word or phrase, constituting an abbreviation (for another) or shortened form (of another).
#: ''“Phone” is '''short''' for “telephone” and "asap" '''short''' for "as soon as possible".''
# {{context|cricket|Of a ball|lang=en}} that bounced relatively far from the batsman.
# {{context|cricket|Of a [[fielder]] or fielding [[position]]|lang=en}} that is relatively [[close]] to the [[batsman]].
# {{lb|en|of pastries and metals}} [[brittle|Brittle]], [[crumbly]], especially due to the use of too much [[shortening]]. {{qualifier|See ''[[shortbread]]'', ''[[shortcake]]'', ''[[shortcrust]]''.}}
#* '''2013''', ''Historic Heston'' (ISBN 1620402343), page 122:
#*: I chose to interpret the references to butter and sugar as indicating that a '''short''' pastry was required. (Later editions suggest a biscuit-like texture.)
# Abrupt; brief; pointed; petulant.
#: ''He gave a '''short''' answer to the question.''
# Limited in quantity; inadequate; insufficient; scanty.
#: ''a '''short''' supply of provisions''
# Insufficiently provided; inadequately supplied; scantily furnished; lacking.
#: ''to be '''short''' of money''
#: ''The cashier came up '''short''' ten dollars on his morning shift.''
# Deficient; less; not coming up to a measure or standard.
#: ''an account which is '''short''' of the truth''
#* Landor
#*: Hardly anything '''short''' of an invasion could rouse them again to war.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Not distant in time; near at hand.
#* Spenser
#*: Marinell was sore offended / That his departure thence should be so '''short'''.
#* Clarendon
#*: He commanded those who were appointed to attend him to be ready by a '''short''' day.
# In a financial investment position that is structured to be profitable if the price of the underlying security declines in the future.
#: ''I'm '''short''' General Motors because I think their sales are plunging.''

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|having a small distance between ends or edges}} {{term|short|Short}} is often used in the positive [[vertical]] dimension and used as is {{term|shallow}} in the negative vertical dimension; in the horizontal dimension {{term|narrow}} is more commonly used.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|having a small distance between ends or edges}} [[low]], [[narrow]], [[slim]], [[shallow]]
* {{sense|of a person, of comparatively little height}} [[little]], [[pint-sized]], [[petite]], [[titchy]] {{qualifier|slang}}
* {{sense|having little duration}} [[brief]], [[concise]]
* {{sense|constituting an abbreviation (for)}} an [[abbreviation]] of, a [[short form]] of

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|having a small distance between ends or edges}} [[tall]], [[high]], [[wide]], [[broad]], [[deep]], [[long]]
* {{sense|of a person, of comparatively little height}} [[tall]]
* {{sense|having little duration}} [[long]]
* {{sense|cricket|of a fielder or fielding position|relatively close to the batsman}} [[long]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having a small distance between ends or edges}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|kort}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|shkurtër|alt=i shkurtër}}
* Alviri-Vidari: {{qualifier|Vidari}} {{t|avd|کله|tr=kole}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|قصير|tr=qaṣīr|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|قصير|tr=’uSáyyar|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կարճ|tr=karč̣}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|shcurtu}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|qısa}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ҡыҫҡа|sc=Cyrl}}, {{qualifier|Eastern Bashkir}} {{t|ba|тоҡор|sc=Cyrl}}
* Belarusian: {{t+|be|кароткі|tr=karótki|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|কম|tr=kôm|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|къс|m|tr=kǎs|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|кратък|tr=krátǎk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|တို|tr=tui|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|curt}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|c̈hijtawa}} (''vertically'')
* Chinese:
*: Dungan: {{t|dng|җеё|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|短|tr=duǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|krátký}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|cort|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kort}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kort}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|mallonga}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|lühike}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyhyt}}
* French: {{t+|fr|court}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|curt}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მოკლე|tr=mokle|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|kurz}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|קצר}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|कम|tr=kam|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|नाटा|tr=nāṭā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|rövid}}, {{t+|hu|kurta}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|kurta}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|gearr}}, {{t|ga|gairid}}
*: Old Irish: {{t|sga|gerr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corto}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|短い|tr=みじかい, mijikai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ខ្លី|tr=kləy|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|짧다|alt=짧은|sc=Kore}} (''attributive'')
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|kurt|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ສັ້ນ|tr=sȁn|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|eiss}}
* Latin: {{t|la|curtus}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|īss}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|trumpas}}
* Lojban: {{t+|jbo|cinla}}, {{t+|jbo|cmalu}}, {{t+|jbo|tordu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|краток|m|tr=krátok}}, {{t|mk|кус|m|tr=kus}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|curto}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|kurti}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کوتاه|tr=kutâh|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|krótki}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|curto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|scurt}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|короткий|m|tr=korótkij}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|goirid}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|кратак}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|kratak}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|curtu}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|krátky}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kratek}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|krotki}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corto|m}}
* Sundanese: {{t|su|pondok}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kort}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|สั้น|tr=sân|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kısa}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|короткий|tr=korótkyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|đoản}} ({{t|vi|短}}), {{t+|vi|ngắn}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|brefik}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|court}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|byr|m}}, {{t|cy|ber|f}}, {{t+|cy|byrion|m-p|f-p}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|קורץ|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|constituting an abbreviation (for)}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կրճատ|tr=krč̣at}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|съкратено|n|tr=sǎkraténo|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkrácený}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kort}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lyhennys}}, {{t|fi|lyhyt muoto}}
* German: {{t+|de|kurz}} (für)
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|noun}} {{t+|ja|略語|tr=ryakugo}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|kurtî|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|kurti}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|краткий|m|tr=krátkij}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kort}}, {{t+|sv|förkortning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a person, of comparatively little height}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ցածրահասակ|tr=c'açrahasak}}, {{t|hy|կարճահասակ|tr=karč̣ahasak}}, {{t|hy|կոլոտ|tr=kolot}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|нізкі|tr=nízki|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|нисък|m|tr=nísǎk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ပု|tr=pu.|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|baix}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|na'yechoma}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|矮|tr=ǎi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|malý}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|lav}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|klein}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|malalta}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|lühike}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyhyt}}
* French: {{t+|fr|petit}}, {{t+|fr|bref|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|klein}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοντός|tr=kontós}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|alacsony}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|lágur|m}}, {{t|is|lágvaxinn|m}}, {{t+|is|stuttur|m}}, {{t|is|stuttvaxinn|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|beag}}
*: Old Irish: {{t|sga|berr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|piccolo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|低い|tr=ひくい, hikui}}, {{t|ja|小柄|tr=こがら, kogara|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|낮다|sc=Kore}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|eiss|m}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|īss|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|низок|m|tr=nízok}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pendek}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|намхан|sc=Cyrl}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|kurti}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|baixo|m}}
* Rapa Nui: {{t|rap|poto}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|scund}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|низкий|tr=nízkij}}, {{t+|ru|невысокий|tr=nevysókij}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|beag}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|majhen|m}}, {{t|sl|majhna|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bajo|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kort}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|низький|tr=nýzʹkyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|byr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having little duration}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|قصير|tr=qaSiir|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կարճ|tr=karč̣}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|кратък|tr=krátǎk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|တို|tr=to|sc=Mymr}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|短|tr=duǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|krátký}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyhyt}}
* French: {{t+|fr|court}}, {{t+|fr|bref|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|rövid}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|breve}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|gearr}}, {{t|ga|gairid}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corto}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|短い|tr=みじかい, mijikai}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|краток|m|tr=krátok}}, {{t|mk|кус|m|tr=kus}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|pendek}}, {{t|ms|singkat}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|uriuri}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|krótki}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|curto}}, {{t+|pt|breve}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|scurt}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|короткий|m|tr=korótkij}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|goirid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|corto}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kort}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|court}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{qualifier|1}} {{t+check|nl|kort}}, {{qualifier|1}} {{t+check|nl|korte}}, {{qualifier|1}} {{t+check|nl|dicht}}, {{qualifier|1}} {{t+check|nl|dichte}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|mallonga}}
* Hindi: {{t+check|hi|छोटा|tr=chotā|sc=Deva}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|pendek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+check|ko|짧다|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish: {{t+check|ku|kurt}}, {{t+check|ku|kin}}, {{t+check|ku|qut}}, {{t+check|ku|quse}}, {{t+check|ku|کورت}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+check|lt|trumpas}}
* Sanskrit: {{t-check|sa|laghu|sc=Deva}}
* Swedish: {{t+check|sv|kort}}
* Telugu: {{t+check|te|పొట్టి|tr=poTTi|sc=Telu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# [[abruptly|Abruptly]], [[curtly]], [[briefly]].
#: ''They had to stop '''short''' to avoid hitting the dog in the street.''
#: ''He cut me '''short''' repeatedly in the meeting.''
#: ''The boss got a message and cut the meeting '''short'''.''
# [[unawares|Unawares]].
#: ''The recent developments at work caught them '''short'''.''
# Without achieving a [[goal]] or [[requirement]].
#: ''His speech fell '''short''' of what was expected.''
# {{context|cricket|of the manner of bounce of a [[cricket ball]]|lang=en}} Relatively [[far]] from the [[batsman]] and hence bouncing higher than normal; opposite of [[full]].
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} With a [[negative]] [[ownership]] position.
#: ''We went '''short''' most finance companies in July.''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[short circuit]].
# A short [[film]].
#* '''2012''' July 12, Sam Adams, AV Club ''Ice Age: Continental Drift''[http://www.avclub.com/articles/ice-age-continental-drift,82358/]
#*: Preceded by a Simpsons '''short''' shot in 3-D—perhaps the only thing more superfluous than a fourth Ice Age movie—Ice Age: Continental Drift finds a retinue of vaguely contemporaneous animals coping with life in the post-Pangaea age.
# {{non-gloss definition|Used to indicate a short-length version of a size}}
#: ''38 '''short''' suits fit me right off the rack.''
#: ''Do you have that size in a '''short'''.''
# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} A [[shortstop]].
#: ''Jones smashes a grounder between third and '''short'''.''
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} A [[short seller]].
#: ''The market decline was terrible, but the '''shorts''' were buying champagne.''
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} A [[short sale]].
#: ''He closed out his '''short''' at a modest loss after three months.''
# A summary account.
#* Shakespeare
#*: The '''short''' and the long is, our play is preferred.
# {{context|phonetics|lang=en}} A short [[sound]], [[syllable]], or [[vowel]].
#* H. Sweet
#*: If we compare the nearest conventional '''shorts''' and longs in English, as in "bit" and "beat", "not" and "naught", we find that the short vowels are generally wide, the long narrow, besides being generally diphthongic as well.
# {{label|en|programming}} An {{l/en|integer}} {{l/en|variable}} shorter than normal integers; usually two bytes long.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a short circuit}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkrat|m}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|lühis}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|短絡|tr=tanraku}}, {{t+|ja|ショート|tr=shōto}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|краток спој|m|tr=krátok spoj}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|curto-circuito|m}}
* Spanish: {{qualifier|abbrev.}} {{t+|es|corto|m}}, {{qualifier|formally}} {{t+|es|cortocircuito|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kortslutning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: shortstop}}
* Danish: {{t|da|kortslutning}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ショート|tr=shōto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To cause a [[short circuit#Noun|short circuit]] in (something).
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} Of an [[electrical]] [[circuit]], to [[short circuit#Verb|short circuit]].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[shortchange]].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To provide with a smaller than agreed or labeled amount.
#: ''This is the third time I've caught them '''shorting''' us.''
# {{context|transitive|business|lang=en}} To sell something, especially [[security|securities]], that one does not own at the moment for delivery at a later date in hopes of profiting from a decline in the price; to [[sell short]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To shorten.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|transitive: to cause a short circuit}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkratovat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|kortslutte}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|lühistama}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|oikosulkea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|court-circuiter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|kurzschließen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|短絡|alt=短絡する|tr=tanraku suru}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|закорачивать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|закоротить|pf}}, {{t+|ru|замыкать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|замкнуть|pf}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kortsluta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: to short circuit}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkratovat|alt=zkratovat se}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|lühistuma}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mennä}} {{t+|fi|oikosulku|alt=oikosulkuun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kortsluta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|shortchange}}

{{trans-top|to provide with smaller than agreed quantity}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ускратува|tr=uskrátuva}}, {{t|mk|крати|tr=kráti}}, {{t|mk|кине|tr=kíne}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|business: to sell something one does not own at the moment}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|myydä}} {{t+|fi|lyhyt|alt=lyhyeksi}}, {{t+|fi|shortata}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|fupi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blanka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# Deficient in.
#: ''We are '''short''' a few men on the second shift.''
#: ''He's '''short''' common sense.''
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} Having a negative position in.
#: ''I don't want to be '''short''' the market going into the weekend.''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|deficient in}} [[lacking]], [[short]] [[on]]

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the adjective, adverb, noun, verb, or preposition ''short''}}
* [[cold short]]
* [[for short]]
* [[hot short]]
* [[in short]]
* [[short-arse]]
* [[short back and sides]]
* [[short of]]
* [[short-change]], [[shortchange]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[shorten]]
* [[short end of the stick]]
* [[shortie]]
* [[shortfall]]
* [[shorthand]]
* [[short strokes]]
* [[shorty]]
* [[the long and short]]

{{rel-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|different|care|war|390|short|able|five|need}}

===Anagrams===
* [[horst#English|horst]]
* [[thors#English|thors]]
* [[trosh#English|trosh]]

[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|sq}} {{term|sors|lang=la}}, ''sortem''.

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|g=m}}

# [[drawing]] (action where the outcome is selected by chance using a draw)
# [[sweepstakes]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-short.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{IPA|/ʃɔʁt/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[shorts]], [[short trousers]] {{qualifier|UK}}
#: ''Avec un pantalon, j'ai moins froid aux jambes qu'avec un '''short'''.''
#:: “With trousers on, my legs are not as cold as with shorts on.”

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[Category:fr:Clothing]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[#English|short]] (short film etc)

----

==Portuguese==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|pt|shorts}}

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{l|en|shorts}} {{gloss|pants that do not go lower than the knees}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|pt|calção}}

{{catlangcode|pt|Clothing}}

[[ar:short]]
[[az:short]]
[[ca:short]]
[[cs:short]]
[[cy:short]]
[[de:short]]
[[et:short]]
[[el:short]]
[[es:short]]
[[eo:short]]
[[eu:short]]
[[fa:short]]
[[fr:short]]
[[gl:short]]
[[ko:short]]
[[hy:short]]
[[io:short]]
[[id:short]]
[[it:short]]
[[kn:short]]
[[kk:short]]
[[sw:short]]
[[ku:short]]
[[lo:short]]
[[lv:short]]
[[lt:short]]
[[li:short]]
[[jbo:short]]
[[hu:short]]
[[mg:short]]
[[ml:short]]
[[my:short]]
[[nl:short]]
[[ja:short]]
[[uz:short]]
[[pl:short]]
[[pt:short]]
[[ro:short]]
[[ru:short]]
[[sq:short]]
[[simple:short]]
[[fi:short]]
[[sv:short]]
[[tl:short]]
[[ta:short]]
[[tt:short]]
[[te:short]]
[[th:short]]
[[chr:short]]
[[tr:short]]
[[vi:short]]
[[zh:short]]