==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ʃɒt/}}, {{SAMPA|/SOt/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ʃɑt/}}, {{SAMPA|/SAt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-shot.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɒt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|sceot|scēot|lang=ang}}, from Germanic ''*skot-''.  Cognate with German ''[[Schoß]]''.  Compare ''[[scot]]''.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{colloquial}} Worn out.
#: ''The rear axle will have to be replaced.  It's '''shot'''.''
#* {{quote-book|title=Help: The Original Human Dilemma‎|page=50|author=Garret Keizer|year=2004|passage=... but he finds it hard to resist helping the boss's sister, who also works there and whose body "is more '''shot''' than mine."}}
# (Of material, especially silk) Woven from [[warp]] and [[weft]] strands of different colours, resulting in an iridescent appearance.
# tired, weary
#: ''I have to go to bed now, I'm '''shot'''.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Worn out}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|versleten}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kulunut}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|fichu}}, {{t|fr|naze}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Woven from warp and weft strands of different colours, resulting in an iridescent appearance}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tired, weary}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitgeput}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väsynyt}}, {{t-|fi|poikki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|crevé}}, {{t|fr|naze}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[utsliten]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[result]] of launching a [[projectile]] or [[bullet]].
#: ''The '''shot''' was wide off the mark.''
# {{sports}} The [[act]] of launching a ball or similar object toward a goal.
#: ''They took the lead on a last-minute '''shot'''.''
# {{athletics}} The [[heavy]] [[iron]] [[ball]] used for the [[shot put]].
# {{uncountable}} Small metal balls used as [[ammunition]].
# An [[opportunity]] or  [[attempt]].
#: ''I'd like just one more '''shot''' at winning this game.''
# A [[remark]] or [[comment]], especially one which is [[critical]] or [[insult]]ing.
#* '''2003''', Carla Marinucci, "[http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/c/a/2003/11/16/MNG0E3376S1.DTL On inauguration eve, 'Aaaarnold' stands tall]," ''San Francisco Chronicle'', 16 Nov. (retrieved 18 Apr. 2009):
#*: Schwarzenegger also is taking nasty '''shots''' from his own party, as GOP conservatives bash some of his appointments as Kennedyesque and traitorous to party values.
# {{slang|sports|US}} A [[punch]] or other physical blow.
# A measure of [[alcohol]], usually [[spirits]], as taken either from a shot-glass or directly from the bottle, equivalent to about 44 milliliters; 1.5 ounces.  ("pony shot"= 30 milliliters; 1 fluid ounce)
# {{rfv-sense}} {{context|prison}} A [[spoon]] of [[coffee]].
# A single serving of [[espresso]].
# {{photography|film}} A single unbroken [[sequence]] of [[photographic]] [[film]] [[exposure]]s, or the digital equivalent; an [[unedited]] sequence of [[frame]]s.
# A [[vaccination]] or [[injection]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun "shot"}}
* [[armor-piercing shot]]
* [[big shot]]
* [[buckshot]]
* [[call the shots]]
* [[cow shot]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[give something one's best shot]]
* [[long shot]]
* [[parting shot]]
* [[shot-glass]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[shotgun]]
* [[shotlike]]
* [[shot put]]
* [[shot in the arm]]
* [[split-shot]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|result of launching a projectile}}
* Chinese: trad. [[發射]], simpl. [[发射]] (fāshè)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|pucanj|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|výstřel|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skud}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schot|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pafo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laukaus}},  {{t|fi|iskemä}}
* French: {{t|fr|tir}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schuss}}
* Greek: [[βολή]] (voli) {{f}}, [[πυροβολισμός]] (pirovolismos) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lövés}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sparo|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|strzał|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tiro|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выстрел|m|tr=výstr'el}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|urchair|f}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[scupittata]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skott|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|launching of a ball or similar object toward a goal}}
* Chinese: [[射]] (shè)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|pucanj|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skud}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schot|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laukaus}}
* French: {{t|fr|tir|m}}
* Greek: [[βολή]] (voli) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lövés}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tiro|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|strzał|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chute|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бросок|m|tr=brosók}}, {{t+|ru|удар|m|tr=udár}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skott|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|heavy iron ball used for the shot put}}
* Chinese: trad. [[鉛球]], simpl. [[铅球]] (qiānqiú)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|koule|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|kugle}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kogel|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuula}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|poids|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|peso|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ядро|n|tr=jadró}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small metal balls used as ammunition}}
* Chinese: trad. [[散彈]], simpl. [[散弹]] (sàndàn)
* Danish: {{t+|da|hagl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hagel|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hauli}}
* French: {{t|fr|plomb|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: [[σκάγια]] (skaya) {{n}} pl
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hagl|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дробь|f|tr=drob'}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hagel}}, {{t+|sv|skrot}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|opportunity or attempt}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mahdollisuus}}
* French: {{t|fr|coup|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|opportunità|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chance|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|попытка|f|tr=popýtka}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|chansning|c}}, {{t+|sv|försök|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|critical or insulting comment}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pisto}}, {{t+|fi|piikki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|measure of alcohol}}
* Chinese: [[小杯]] xiǎobēi
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paukku}}
* French: {{t|fr|shooter|m}}, {{t|fr|dose|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|feles}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|порция|f|tr=pórcija}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|chupito|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|shot|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|photography: single unbroken sequence of photographic exposures}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|otto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
'''shot'''

# {{past of|shoot}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A charge to [[pay|paid]], a [[scot]] or [[shout]].
#: ''Drink up. It's his '''shot'''.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|payment (of a bill), scot or shout}}
* French: {{t|fr|coup|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выплата|f|tr=výplata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kaptula|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etystub}}

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{colloquial|South Africa}} Thank you.

====Statistics====
* {{rank|shown|escape|Mr|926|shot|warm|sufficient|conduct}}

===Anagrams===
* [[host#English|host]]
* [[hots#English|hots]]
* [[Thos.#English|Thos.]]
* [[tosh#English|tosh]], [[TOSH#English|TOSH]]

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:en:Coffee]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-irreg-c|2=shotten|3=shottar}}
'''shot''' {{c}}

# [[#English|shot]]; measure of alcohol

====Usage notes====
In Sweden, the term "shot" usually refers to a measure of 4 or 6 cl of alcohol.

====Related terms====
* [[shotta]]

[[Category:sv:Alcoholic beverages]]

[[et:shot]]
[[el:shot]]
[[es:shot]]
[[eo:shot]]
[[fa:shot]]
[[fr:shot]]
[[ko:shot]]
[[io:shot]]
[[it:shot]]
[[ku:shot]]
[[li:shot]]
[[hu:shot]]
[[mg:shot]]
[[ml:shot]]
[[my:shot]]
[[pl:shot]]
[[pt:shot]]
[[ru:shot]]
[[simple:shot]]
[[fi:shot]]
[[ta:shot]]
[[te:shot]]
[[zh:shot]]