==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|shou’d}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}
* {{alter|en|shoulde}} {{qualifier|archaic}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|scholde}}, from {{inh|en|ang|scolde||}}, first and third person preterite form of {{m|ang|sculan||should,” “have to,” “to owe}}, the ancestor of {{cog|en|shall}}. Related to {{l|en|shild}} and {{l|en|shildy}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|stressed}} {{IPA|en|/ʃʊd/}}
** {{audio|en|en-US should (stressed).ogg|Audio (US; ''stressed'')}}
* {{a|unstressed}} {{IPA|en|/ʃəd/}}
** {{audio|en|en-US should (unstressed).ogg|Audio (US; ''unstressed'')}}
* {{rhymes|en|ʊd}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb}}

# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} [[ought|Ought]] to; {{n-g|indicates opinion, advice, or instruction.}}
## {{n-g|Used to issue an instruction (traditionally seen as carrying less force of authority than alternatives such as 'shall' or 'must').}}
##: {{ux|en|You '''should''' always wear a seat belt.}}
##: {{ux|en|The manual says that this switch '''should''' always be in the 'off' position.}}
## {{n-g|Used to give advice or opinion that an action is beneficial or desirable.}}
##: {{ux|en|You '''should''' go and see that film. I think you'll enjoy it.}}
##: {{ux|en|I '''should''' exercise more often, but I’m too lazy.}}
## {{n-g|In questions, asks what is correct, proper, desirable, etc.}}
##: {{ux|en|What do you think? What '''should''' I do?}}
##* {{quote-journal
|en
|date=21 August 2012
|first=Ed
|last=Pilkington
|title=Death penalty on trial: should Reggie Clemons live or die?
|newspaper=The Guardian
|url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/aug/21/death-penalty-trial-reggie-clemons?newsfeed=true
|page=
|passage=Next month, Clemons will be brought before a court presided over by a "special master", who will review the case one last time. The hearing will be unprecedented in its remit, but at its core will be a simple issue: '''should''' Reggie Clemons live or die?
}}
## {{n-g|Indicates something expected to have happened or to be the case.}}
##: {{ux|en|My fruit trees '''should''' be in flower by now, but the cold spring has set them back several weeks.}}
## {{lb|en|informal}} {{n-g|With verbs such as 'see' or 'hear', usually in the second person, used to point out something remarkable in either a good or bad way.}}
##: ''You '''should''' see his new apartment. It's like a palace!''
##: ''If you think her piano playing is bad, you '''should''' hear her sing!''
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} Will be [[likely]] to (become or do something); {{non-gloss definition|indicates a degree of possibility or probability that the stated thing will happen.}}
#: {{ux|en|They '''should''' have finished it by Friday.}}
#: {{ux|en|When you press this button, the pilot flame '''should''' ignite.}}
#: {{ux|en|You '''should''' be warm enough with that coat.}}
# {{lb|en|auxiliary|subjunctive}} {{non-gloss definition|Used to form a variant of the present [[subjunctive mood|subjunctive]], expressing a state or action that is conditional, hypothetical, potential, mandated, etc.}}
#: {{ux|en|If I '''should''' be late, go without me.}}
#: {{ux|en|'''Should''' you need extra blankets, you will find them in the closet.}}
#: {{ux|en|The man demanded that he '''should''' be allowed entry.}}
#: {{ux|en|I'm surprised that he '''should''' say that.}}
#* {{RQ:Noyes Poems|poem=The Highwayman|stanza=V|page=47|passage='One kiss, my bonny sweetheart, I'm after a prize to-night, / But I shall be back with the yellow gold before the morning light; / Yet, if they press me sharply, and harry me through the day, / Then look for me by moonlight, / Watch for me by moonlight, / I'll come to thee by moonlight, though Hell '''should''' bar the way.'}}
#* '''1922''', {{w|Margery Williams}}, ''{{w|The Velveteen Rabbit}}''
#*: It was a long weary time, for the Boy was too ill to play, and the little Rabbit found it rather dull with nothing to do all day long. But he snuggled down patiently, and looked forward to the time when the Boy '''should''' be well again, and they would go out in the garden amongst the flowers and the butterflies and play splendid games in the raspberry thicket like they used to.
#* {{RQ:Wonder Fool}}
#*:And I'd be a fool right now<br>If I '''should''' hurt you girl<br>And I'd be a fool right now<br>If I '''should''' leave you girl
#* '''2008''', Peter Michael Higgins, ''Number Story: From Counting to Cryptography'', [https://books.google.com/books?id=HcIwkWXy3CwC&pg=PA141&dq=%22should+he+be+right%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CEYQ6AEwB2oVChMIpKTWksbhyAIVU9ljCh1O2AAe#v=onepage&q=%22should%20he%20be%20right%22&f=false page 141 (Google Books view)]:
#*: He is noted for coming up with his 'wager', in which he argued that he was prepared to believe in God on the grounds that he had nothing to lose if he was wrong, and everything to gain '''should''' he be right.
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} {{en-simple past of|shall}}.
#: {{ux|en|I told him that I '''should''' be busy tomorrow.}}
#* '''1842''', {{w|Frederick Marryat}}, ''Peter Simple Frederick Marryat'', [https://books.google.com/books?id=LcLjl7ptlMAC&pg=PA19&dq=%22said+that+i+should+be%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CBwQ6AEwADgUahUKEwias9zjneTIAhVJz2MKHbyJAzA#v=onepage&q=%22said%20that%20i%20should%20be%22&f=false page 19 (Google Books view)]:
#*: I was astonished at this polite offer, which my modesty induced me to ascribe more to my uniform than to my own merits, and, as I felt no inclination to refuse the compliment, I said that I '''should''' be most happy.
# {{lb|en|auxiliary|formal|_|or|_|literary|_|outside certain combinations such as with 'imagine' or 'think'}} An alternative to ''[[would]]'' when used with first person subjects.
#: {{ux|en|I '''should''' imagine that they have arrived by now.}}
#: {{ux|en|I '''should''' think you would apologize.}}
#: {{ux|en|I '''should''' be very grateful to receive your prompt reply. ''(formal or old-fashioned)''}} 
#: {{ux|en|I '''should''' very much like to meet her. ''(formal or old-fashioned)''}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1817|author=Jane Austen|title=Northanger Abbey|passage=I '''should''' like to dine with him. I dare say he gives famous dinners.}}
#* '''1900''', {{w|L. Frank Baum}}, {{w|The Wonderful Wizard of Oz}}
#*: "If our friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, were only with us," said the Lion, "I '''should''' be quite happy."
#* '''1900''', L. Frank Baum, ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' Chapter 23
#*: "Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert," replied Glinda. "If you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em the very first day you came to this country." "But then I '''should''' not have had my wonderful brains!" cried the Scarecrow. "I might have passed my whole life in the farmer's cornfield."
## {{n-g|Used to express what the speaker would do in another person's situation, as a means of giving a suggestion or recommendation.}}
##: ''It's disgraceful the way that they've treated you. I '''should''' write and complain.''

====Usage notes====
* ''Should'' has, as its most common meaning in modern English, the sense ''ought'' as in ''I should go, but I don't see how I can''. However, the older sense as the subjunctive of the future indicative auxiliary, ''shall'', is often used with ''I'' or ''we'' to indicate a more polite form than ''would'': ''I should like to go, but I can't; Were he to arrive, I should be pleased''. In much speech and writing, ''should'' has been replaced by ''would'' In contexts of this kind, but it remains in conditional subjunctives: ''should'' (never ''would'') ''I go, I should wear my new dress; should he remain, he'd be granted asylum.''
* {{sense|obligation}} Contrast with stronger auxiliary verb {{m|en|must}}, which indicates that the speaker believes the subject is [[require]]d to execute the predicate, or [[have to]] which indicates that the speaker believes the subject is required to execute, although speaker might disagree with the principle, and [[should]] which is merely [[advice]] – take it or leave it.
* {{sense|likely}} Possibility, or probability. Contrast with stronger auxiliary verb in the affirmative {{m|en|must}}, and negative sense {{m|en|can't}}, which indicate that there is a logical imperative [[certainty]] that the subject will (or will not) execute the predicate. Also compare with the weaker {{m|en|might}}, which indicates at most a 50/50 possibility, or probability.
* {{sense|subjunctive}} In American English, the present subjunctive is commonly used instead of ''should'' (e.g., "suggest that he ''stay''"), while in British English, ''should'' is commoner (e.g., "suggest that he ''should'' stay"). Both forms of English, however, sometimes use ''should'' in certain conditionals (e.g., "If I ''should'' be in trouble, I shall call you"). Furthermore, ''should'' is not used in independent clauses with the present subjunctive, many of which clauses are now fossilized expressions (e.g., "Peace ''be'' with you", "''suffice'' it to say"; never ''should be'' or ''should suffice'').
* See the usage notes at {{m|en|shall}}.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|obligation}} {{l|en|ought}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|obligation}} {{l|en|shouldn't}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|shouldst}} (archaic second-person singular of should)
* {{l|en|should've}}, {{l|en|shoulda}} (contraction of auxiliary phrase ''should have'')
* {{l|en|one should be so lucky}}
* {{l|en|one should live so long}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expressing obligation}}
* Belarusian: {{qualifier|predicative}} {{t|be|паві́нен|m}}, {{t|be|паві́нна|f|n}}, {{t|be|паві́нны|p}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-needed|bg}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|應該|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|应该|tr=yīnggāi|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|應當|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|应当|tr=yīngdāng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|měl by}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skulle}}, {{t+|da|burde}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|moeten}}, {{t|nl|zou moeten}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|devi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pitäisi}}
* French: Conditional form of {{t+|fr|devoir}} {{q|see {{t+|fr|devrait}} and other forms}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|sollen}}, {{t+|de|sollte}}, {{t+|de|müsste}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|ὀφείλω}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|चाहिए}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|-j}} {{q|using the verb in its imperative, a.k.a. subjunctive form}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|eiga að}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|べき|alt=...べきである|tr=...beki dearu}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|해야 한다}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{qualifier|used a verb in imperfect subjunctive}} {{t+|la|essem|tr=I should be}}
* Lithuanian: subjunctive of {{t+|lt|turėti}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|тре́ба|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|patut}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|burde}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|sċulan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|powinien|m}}, {{t|pl|powinna|f}}, {{t+|pl|powinno|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dever}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|trebui|alt=ar trebui}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|до́лжен|m}}, {{t+|ru|обязанный|m|alt=обя́зан}}, ([[dative case]] + ) {{t+|ru|следовать|alt=сле́дует}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|shud}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|dejaś}}
* Spanish: Conditional form of {{t+|es|deber}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skola}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ควร}}
* Tibetan: {{t-needed|bo}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|-meli, -malı}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|повинен}}, {{t+|uk|ва́рто}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|چاہئے|tr=cāhie|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nên}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|dylu}}
* Westrobothnian: {{t|gmq-bot|liot}}, {{t|gmq-bot|wahl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expressing opinion}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|kéne}}, {{t+|hu|kellene}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|burde}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bör}}, {{t+|sv|borde}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expressing likelihood}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-needed|bg}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skulle}}
* Finnish: ''use potential mood'', {{t+|fi|pitäisi}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|dürfen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bizonyára}}, {{t+|hu|alighanem}}, {{t+|hu|feltehetőleg}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dovere}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|debeo}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|тре́ба|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|би тре́бало|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|burde}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|powinno}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dever}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|trebui|alt=ar trebui}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|должно́ быть}} (lit. should be), {{t+|ru|скоре́е всего́}} (most likely; lit. rather than anything), {{t+|ru|бу́дет}} (more certainty)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|deber}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|böra}}
* Turkish: {{t-needed|tr}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|повинно}}, {{t|uk|слід}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|dylu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|as a variant of the present subjunctive}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|véletlenül}}, {{t+|hu|esetleg}}, {{t|hu|netán}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|if; in case of}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: : {{t+|cmn|如果|tr=rúguǒ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|倘若|tr=tǎngruò|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skulle}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mochten}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sattua}} (+ ''active 3rd infinitive in illative''), ''jos'' and ''conditional mood''
* French: {{t+|fr|si}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|[[ha]] …… [[-na]]/[[-ne]]}} {{q|conditional mood}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|́ако|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|до́колку|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|skulle}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|se}}, {{t+|pt|caso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|е́сли}}, {{t+|ru|е́жели}} {{qualifier|archaic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|si}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|om}}, {{t+|sv|skulle}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|os}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|zou}}, {{t+check|nl|zouden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+check|de|sollte}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Something that ought to be the case as opposed to already being the case.
#* '''1996''', Fred Shoemaker, ''Extraordinary Golf: The Art of the Possible'' (page 88)
#*: When the golf ball is there, the whole self-interference package — the hopes, worries, and fears; the thoughts on how-to and how-not-to; the woulds, the coulds, and the '''shoulds''' — is there too.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2003|title=Overcoming Resistance in Cognitive Therapy|author=Robert L. Leahy
|passage=However, we can address maladaptive '''shoulds''' by examining the differences between prior events, causes, proximate causes, and moral responsibility.
|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=NShtFzMDJckC&lpg=PA139&dq=%22shoulds%22&pg=PA159#v=onepage&q=%22shoulds%22&f=false}}
#* '''2008''', ''Working Mother'' (volume 31, number 8, page 20)
#*: Being a list-o-maniac, I suggested we make a list of the "'''shoulds'''" and "shouldn'ts." So in the darkness of hazy sleep, I began to mentally prepare mine. The first item on the "'''should'''" side was easy: a sibling for our 3-year-old daughter.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make a statement of what ought to be true, as opposed to reality. {{rfex|en}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|precatory}}
* [[Appendix:English modal verbs]]
* [[Appendix:English tag questions]]
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Auxiliary verb}}
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Modal verb}}
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Shall and will}}

[[Category:English auxiliary verb forms]]
[[Category:English defective verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English modal verbs]]
[[Category:English verb forms using redundant wikisyntax]]