==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Shuttle}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ʌtəl|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-shuttle.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|scytel||dart, arrow|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*skutilaz}} (compare Old Norse {{term|skutill||harpoon|lang=non}}), from {{m|gem-pro|*skut-||project}} (see {{term|shoot|lang=en}}). Name for loom weaving instrument, recorded from 1338, is from a sense of being "shot" across the threads. The back-and-forth imagery inspired the extension to "passenger trains" in 1895, aircraft in 1942, and spacecraft in 1969, as well as older terms such as {{term|shuttlecock|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The part of a [[loom]] that carries the [[woof]] back and forth between the [[warp]] [[thread]]s.
#* Sandys
#*: Like '''shuttles''' through the loom, so swiftly glide / My feathered hours.
# The sliding thread holder in a sewing machine, which carries the lower thread through a loop of the upper thread, to make a [[lock stitch]].
# A [[transport]] [[service]] (such as a bus or train) that goes back and forth between two places, sometimes more.
# Such a transport vehicle; a shuttle bus; a space shuttle.
#*'''2004''', ''Dawn of the Dead,'' 1:14:20:
#*:You're saying we take the parking '''shuttles,''' reinforce them with aluminum siding and then head to the gun store where our friend Andy plays some cowboy-movie, jump-on-the-wagon bullshit. 
# Any other item that moves repeatedly back and forth between two positions, possibly transporting something else with it between those points (such as, in chemistry, a ''molecular shuttle'').
# A [[shutter]], as for a [[channel]] for [[molten]] [[metal]].

====Usage notes====
Strictly speaking, a '''shuttle''' goes back and forth between two places. However, the term is also used more generally for short-haul transport that may be one-way or have multiple stops (including shared ride or loop), particularly for airport buses; compare loose usage of {{m|en|limousine}}.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|part of a loom}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مكوك|m|tr=makūk}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|梭子|tr=suōzi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukkula}}
* French: {{t+|fr|navette|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σαΐτα|f|tr=saḯta}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|skytta|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|rocchetto|m}}, {{t+|it|bobina|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|下糸入れ|tr=したいといれ, shita-ito-ire}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skyttel|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ماکو|tr=mâku|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|naveta|f}}, {{t|pt|lançadeira|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|челнок|m|tr=čelnók}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|чунак|m|tr=čunak|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzadera|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skyttel|c}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|gwennol|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the sliding thread holder in a sewing machine}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzadera|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transport service}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مكوك|m|tr=makūk}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{qualifier|plane}} {{t|cmn|穿梭班機|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|穿梭班机|tr=chuānsuō bānjī|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|bus}} {{t+|cmn|班車|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|班车|tr=bānchē|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sukkula}}, {{t|fi|sukkulalinja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|navette|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Pendelverkehr|m}}, {{qualifier|bus}} {{t|de|Shuttlebus|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|skutla|f}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|naveto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|navetta|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|シャトル|tr=shatoru}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skytteltrafikk}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|traslado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|челнок|m|tr=čelnók}}, {{t|ru|челночный транспорт|m|tr=čelnóčnyj tránsport}}, {{qualifier|space}} {{t+|ru|шаттл|m|tr=šattl|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzadera|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skyttelbuss|c}}, {{t+|sv|skytteltrafik|c}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|กระสวย|tr=kràswǎi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|shuttl}}

# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To go [[back and forth]] between two places.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[transport]] by shuttle or by means of a shuttle service.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to go back and forth}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sukkuloida}}, {{t|fi|pendelöidä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πηγαινοέρχομαι|tr=pigainoérchomai|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t|it|fare la spola}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|to transport by shuttle}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sukkuloida}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διαβιβάζω|tr=diavivázo|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|μεταφέρω|tr=metaféro|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|skutla}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|transportar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top|Derived terms}}
* {{l|en|shuttle box}}
* {{l|en|shuttle bus}}, {{l|en|shuttlebus}}
* {{l|en|shuttle diplomacy}}
* {{l|en|shuttle driver}}
* {{l|en|shuttle race}}
* {{l|en|shuttle vector}}
* {{l|en|shuttlecock}}
* {{l|en|shuttlecraft}}
* {{l|en|shuttleless}}
* {{l|en|shuttlewise}}
* {{l|en|Space Shuttle}}, {{l|en|space shuttle}}
* {{l|en|weavers' shuttle}}
{{rel-bottom}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-shuttle.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-s|shuttletje}}

# a [[space shuttle]]
# a [[shuttlecock]]

====Synonyms====
{{checksense|lang=nl}}
* {{l|nl|pluimbal}}
* {{l|nl|vederbal}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[space shuttle]]

[[cs:shuttle]]
[[et:shuttle]]
[[eo:shuttle]]
[[fa:shuttle]]
[[fr:shuttle]]
[[ko:shuttle]]
[[hy:shuttle]]
[[io:shuttle]]
[[kn:shuttle]]
[[lo:shuttle]]
[[hu:shuttle]]
[[mg:shuttle]]
[[ml:shuttle]]
[[my:shuttle]]
[[nl:shuttle]]
[[pl:shuttle]]
[[ru:shuttle]]
[[fi:shuttle]]
[[ta:shuttle]]
[[te:shuttle]]
[[vi:shuttle]]
[[zh:shuttle]]