==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|sĭk}}, {{IPA|/sɪk/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/sIk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-sic.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|sick|Sikh}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|sic|sīc|thus, so|lang=la}}.

[[Latin]] word meaning "thus," "so," "as such," or "in such a manner." It is used when writing quoted material to indicate that an incorrect or unusual [[spelling]], [[phrase]], [[punctuation]], or meaning in the quote has been reproduced [[verbatim]] from the original and is not a [[transcription]] error (that is, it appeared ''thus'' in the original). It is normally placed within the quoted material, in square [[bracket]]s and often [[italicize]]d&mdash;[''sic'']. Alternatively it can appear after the quote in [[parentheses]] (round brackets)&mdash;(''sic'').<ref name="cgsau">{{Cite book|url=http://cup.columbia.edu/bookpreview/978-0-231-06989-2/ |chapter=sic (adv.) |title=The Columbia Guide to Standard American English|first=Kenneth G. |last=Wilson |publisher=[[Columbia University Press]] |year=1993 |accessdate=2009-11-03}} The particular entry is available in the online preview, ''via'' search.</ref> Where the quoted material is a known error, and the correct word or phrase is known, it may be included, preceded by {{term|lang=la|recte}}, Latin for "rightly"; this is common in [[palaeography]].

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}

# [[thus]]; thus written

=====Usage notes=====
The word ''sic'' may be used in brackets to show that an uncommon or [[archaism|archaic]] usage is reported faithfully: for instance, quoting the [[:w:United States Constitution|U.S. Constitution]]:
: The House of Representatives shall chuse [''sic''] their Speaker ... <!-- Note that the spelling "chuse" is the point of this quotation - do not correct it to "choose" -->
It may also be used to highlight a perceived error, sometimes for the purpose of ridicule, as in this example from ''[[:w:The Times|The Times]]'':
: Warehouse has been around for 30 years and has 263 stores, suggesting a large fan base. The chain sums up its appeal thus: "[[:wiktionary:stylish|styley]] [sic]<!-- the original is not italicised-->, confident, sexy, glamorous, edgy, clean and individual, with <!-- Don't correct this either. --> [[:wiktionary:it's|it's]] [sic]<!-- the original is not italicised--> finger on the fashion pulse."<ref>{{Cite news|first=Anne |last=Ashworth |title=Chain reaction: Warehouse |url=http://women.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,26930-2234374,00.html |work=The Times |date=2006-06-21 |accessdate=2007-01-06 }}</ref>

Since it is not an abbreviation, it does not require a following period.

=====Related terms=====
* [[sic passim]] (''Used to indicate that the preceding word, phrase, or term is used in the same manner (or form) throughout the remainder of a text.'')
* [[sic transit gloria mundi]] (''Fame is temporary.'')
* [[sic semper tyrannis]] (''Thus always to tyrants, shouted by [[:w:John Wilkes Booth|John Wilkes Booth]] after assassinating [[:w:Abraham Lincoln|Abraham Lincoln]].'')

=====See also=====
* [[shurely shome mishtake]] (''A [[jocular]] alternative to ''sic.)

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|thus, thus written}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|原文如此|sc=Hans}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sic}}
* German: {{t+|de|dasselbe}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αυτολεξεί}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sic}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ママ|tr=mama|sc=Jpan}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|کذا|tr=kazâ|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|так|tr=tak}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|tako}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sic}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sic}}, {{t+|sv|så}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|так|tr=tak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|sic|c|ing}}

# To mark with a bracketed sic.<ref name=oed>"sic, adv. (and n.)" ''Oxford English Dictionary'', Second Edition 1989. Oxford University Press.</ref>
#: ''E. Belfort Bax wrote "... the modern reviewer's taste is not really shocked by half the things he '''sics''' or otherwise castigates."''<ref name=oed/><ref>E. Belfort Bax. ''[http://www.marxists.org/archive/bax/1887/05/modcant.htm On Some Forms of Modern Cant]''. Commonweal: 7 May 1887. Marxists’ Internet Archive: 14 Jan. 2006</ref>

===Etymology 2===
Variant of {{term|seek}}.

====Alternative forms====
* [[sick]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|sic|c|ing}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[incite]] an [[attack]] by, ''especially'' a dog or dogs.
#: ''He '''sicced''' his dog on me!''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[set upon]]; to [[chase]]; to [[attack]].
#: '''''Sic''' 'em, Mitzi.''

=====Usage notes=====
* The sense of "set upon" is most commonly used as an imperative, in a command to an animal.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|incite an attack by}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|usuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|hetzen}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|siga}}, {{t-|is|etja}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|науськивать|n|tr=naúsʼkivatʼ  |sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|azuzar}}
* Turkish: (üzerine) {{t+|tr|salmak}}, {{t-|tr|saldırtmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|set upon}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[cis#English|cis]] , [[CIS#English|CIS]]
* [[CSI#English|CSI]]
* [[ICS#English|ICS]]
* [[sci#English|sci]], [[sci.#English|sci.]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|sic|sīc|thus, so|lang=la}}.

===Adverb===
{{fr-adv}}

# {{l|en|sic}}

----

==Latin==
===Etymology=== 
From {{etyl|ine-pro|la}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*so||this, that}}, same source as Old English {{term|sio||she|lang=ang}}.
===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/siːk/|lang=la}}

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|sīc|sīc|-}}

# [[thus]], so, or just like that
#* '''45 BC''', Cicero, ''{{w|Tusculanae Disputationes}}'', Book II.42
#*: ''Ut ager, quamvis fertilis, sine cultura fructuosus esse non potest, '''sic''' sine doctrina animus.''
#*:: Just as the field, however fertile, without cultivation cannot be fruitful, <u>likewise</u> the soul without education.
# [[yet]]

====Derived terms====
* [[sic transit gloria mundi]]
* [[wikipedia:sic semper tyrannis|sic semper tyrannis]]

====Descendants====
{{top2}}
* Aromanian: {{l|rup|shi}}
* French: {{l|fr|si}}, {{l|fr|ainsi}}
* Italian: {{l|it|sì}}, {{l|it|così}}
{{mid2}}
* Portuguese: {{l|pt|sim}}, {{l|pt|assim}}
* Romanian: {{l|ro|și}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|sí}} , {{l|es|así}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|stici}}

----

==Scots==

===Alternative forms===
* [[sich#Scots|sich]]

===Adjective===
{{sco-adj|-}}

# [[such]]

===Pronoun===
{{sco-pron}}

# [[such]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|sh|zic}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|de|sh}} {{term|Sitz|lang=de}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m}}

# {{context|regional|lang=sh}} [[seat]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|sh|sjedalo}}

[[ca:sic]]
[[de:sic]]
[[et:sic]]
[[el:sic]]
[[es:sic]]
[[fr:sic]]
[[ko:sic]]
[[is:sic]]
[[it:sic]]
[[ku:sic]]
[[lt:sic]]
[[li:sic]]
[[hu:sic]]
[[mg:sic]]
[[my:sic]]
[[fj:sic]]
[[nl:sic]]
[[no:sic]]
[[pl:sic]]
[[sk:sic]]
[[fi:sic]]
[[sv:sic]]
[[chr:sic]]
[[tr:sic]]
[[vi:sic]]
[[zh:sic]]