==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|de|en}} {{term|Sieg||lang=de|victory}} + {{term|Heil||lang=de|hail}}, a common [[chant]] at political rallies in [[Nazi Germany]], meaning roughly "Hail Victory!"

===Phrase===
{{en-phrase|[[Sieg#German|Sieg]] [[heil#German|Heil]]}}

# {{non-gloss definition|The greeting {{term|Sieg Heil|lang=de}}, used in the [[Third Reich]] during the Nazi era and by neo-Nazis today.}}
#* '''1971''', Sydney Morrell, ''Spheres of Influence", page 216
#*: "Ti-to! Ti-to! Ti-to!" has exactly the same rhythm and resonance as "'''Sieg Heil'''! '''Sieg Heil'''! '''Sieg Heil'''!" at the Nazi demonstrations, or "Du-ce! Du-ce! Du-ce!" in Fascist Italy.
#* '''1991''', James Davison Hunter, ''Culture Wars: The Struggle to Define America'', page 16
#*: All of a sudden a number of the militant homosexuals stood up, raised their hands in a Nazi-style salute and began to chant "'''Sieg heil'''! '''Sieg heil'''! '''Sieg heil'''!" Everyone in the room was paralyzed. How could they accuse us — those who suffered and died in the Holocaust — of being Nazis?
#* '''1995''', Terry H. Anderson, ''The Movement and The Sixties'', page 224
#*: Tear gas floated into the Hilton, up the air vents, and into the suite of the vice president, who was preparing his acceptance speech. On the street, chanting: "'''Sieg Heil, Sieg Heil, Sieg Heil,'''" and "The Whole World Is Watching." The world was watching, or at least an estimated 90 million Americans […].
#* '''2002''', John Rodden, ''Repainting the Little Red Schoolhouse: A History of Eastern German Education'', page 202
#*: And so, sometimes, did their direct effects. At many skinhead concerts, bands led fans in swastika flag-waving and chants of '''Sieg Heil'''!
#* '''2004''', Paul Taylor, ''Jews and the Olympic Games: The Clash Between Sport and Politics'', page 101
#*: Then a few voices started to chant "'''Sieg heil'''! '''Sieg heil'''!", and these were joined by more voices, and gradually the whole assembly rose to its feet.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Nazi greeting}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|زيج هايل|tr=zīg hāyl|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|勝利萬歲|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|胜利万岁|tr=shènglì wànsuì|sc=Hani}}
* German: {{t|de|Sieg Heil}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|זיג הייל|tr=zig hayl|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ジークハイル|tr=jīkuhairu|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|지크 하일|tr=jikeu hail|sc=Kore}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|درود بر پیروزی|tr=dorood bar piroozi|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|зиг хайль|tr=zig xajl’|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ziːk haɪ̯l/|lang=de}}

===Phrase===
'''[[Sieg]] [[heil#German|Heil]]'''

# {{context|archaic|lang=de}} {{n-g|A greeting; literally ''Hail, victory''!}}

====Usage notes====
'''''Sieg Heil''''' became the salute of the German National Socialist (Nazi) party in the 1920s. It developed to the so called {{w|Hitler salute}}, the use of which was later made obligatory to all Germans in the [[Third Reich]]. After [[WWII]], the public use of any form of the Hitler salute was criminalized in Germany and Austria. In Germany it is punishable with up to three years in prison.

====See also====
* [[deutscher Gruß]]
* [[Heil Hitler]]
* [[Hitlergruß]]

[[Category:German phrases]]

[[cs:Sieg Heil]]
[[ru:Sieg Heil]]
[[fi:Sieg Heil]]