==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One's [[romantic]] [[partner]], regardless of [[marital status]] or gender.
#* '''2000''' March 9, "[http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=u_ZHAAAAIBAJ&sjid=-u0DAAAAIBAJ&pg=3173,3905600&dq=significant-other+|+significant-others&hl=en Couples Working Different Shifts, Union Poll Finds]," ''Deseret News'', p. D7 <small>(retrieved 27 Oct 2013)</small>:
#*: Almost half of working women who are married or live with a partner are seeing their '''significant other''' only in passing because the two work different shifts, an AFL-CIO poll found.
#* '''2006''' Feb. 12, Michelle Singletary, "[http://www.boston.com/business/personalfinance/articles/2006/02/12/love_and_money_go_hand_in_hand/ Love and money go hand in hand]," ''Boston Globe'' <small>(retrieved 27 Oct 2013)</small>:
#*: More than half (57 percent) of consumers think it would be wonderfully romantic if their '''significant other''' booked tickets for a surprise international trip.
# A person with whom one has an [[important]] [[bond]] of some kind.
#* '''1983''' June 21, William E. Geist, "[http://www.nytimes.com/1983/06/21/nyregion/high-schools-struggle-with-coach-shortage.html High Schools Struggle with Coach Shortage]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 27 Oct 2013)</small>:
#*: Dr. Nogueira said it was always preferable to have coaches drawn from a school's staff because a coach "is a '''significant other'''" to a student.
#* '''1985''' Dec. 14, Katherine Bishop, "[http://www.nytimes.com/1985/12/14/us/ward-5b-a-model-of-care-for-aids.html Ward 5B: A Model of Care for AIDS]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 27 Oct 2013)</small>:
#*: As in the rest of the hospital, a family member or "'''significant other'''" such as a lover or close friend, is allowed to spend the night in a patient's room on a cot.
#* '''1989''' Dec. 26, Graham Vink, "[http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=FlFXAAAAIBAJ&sjid=UvADAAAAIBAJ&pg=1869,3346238&dq=significant-other+|+significant-others&hl=en Not At Home On The Range‎]," ''Spokesman-Review'', p. F1 <small>(retrieved 27 Oct 2013)</small>:
#*: If your spouse, children or other '''significant others''' are still whining about all those holiday leftovers you made them eat, maybe it's time to spruce up your culinary skills.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|romantic partner}} {{l|en|better half}}, {{l|en|other half}}, {{l|en|partner}}, {{l|en|s/o}}

====Hyponyms====
* {{sense|romantic partner}} {{l|en|boyfriend}}, {{l|en|girlfriend}}, {{l|en|husband}}, {{l|en|spouse}}, {{l|en|wife}}

====Derived terms====
* {{sense|romantic partner}} {{l|en|s/o}} {{gloss|abbreviation}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|romantic partner, regardless of marital status}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|parella|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|對象|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|对象|tr=duìxiàng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|愛人|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|爱人|tr=àiren|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|那位|tr=nàwèi|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|配偶|tr=pèi'ǒu|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|伴侶|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|伴侣|tr=bànlǚ|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wederhelft|m|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rakas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|moitié|f}} {{qualifier|literary}}, {{t+|fr|partenaire|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|compagnon|m}}, {{t+|fr|compagne|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|parella|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Lebensgefährte|m}}, {{t+|de|Lebensgefährtin|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|配偶者|tr=はいぐうしゃ, haigūsha|alt=配偶者|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|恋人|tr=こいびと, koibito|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|伴侶|tr=hanryo}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|signifikant andre|m|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sympatia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|cara-metade|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спу́тник жи́зни|m}}, {{t|ru|спу́тница жи́зни|f}}, {{t|ru|«[[второй|втора́я]] [[полови́на]]»|f}} {{qualifier|"second half", grammatical feminine but can refer to both genders}}, {{t+|ru|возлю́бленный|m}}, {{t+|ru|возлюбленный|f|alt=возлю́бленная}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|novio|m}}, {{t+|es|novia|f}}, {{t|es|media naranja|f}}
* Swedish: {{not used|sv|botfriend|girlfriend}} {{q|See [[boyfriend]], [[girlfriend]], [[husband]], [[wife]] and Swedish terms [[sambo]] and [[särbo]] instead.}}

[[Category:English gender-neutral terms]]
[[Category:en:People]]