{{also|sinécure}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2010|June|1}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|la|sine||without}} + {{m|la|cūrā||care}} in {{m|la|[[beneficium]] [[sine]] [[cūrā]]||benefice without care}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈsaɪ.nɪ.kjʊə/|/ˈsɪ.nɪ.kjʊə/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈsaɪ.nə.kjʊɹ/|/ˈsɪn.ə.kjʊɹ/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-sinecure.wav ‎|Audio (UK)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[position]] that [[require]]s no [[work]] but still gives an [[ample]] [[payment]]; a [[cushy]] job.
#* '''1848''', {{w|William Makepeace Thackeray}}, ''Vanity Fair'', Chapter 14:
#*: Miss Briggs was not formally dismissed, but her place as companion was a '''sinecure''' and a derision ...
#* '''1848''', {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay}}, ''The History of England from the Accession of James the Second'', Volume III, Chapter XI, page 35:
#*: A lucrative '''sinecure''' in the Excise was bestowed on Ferguson.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1913|author={{w|George Bernard Shaw}}|title=Pygmalion|url={{fullurl:s:en:Pygmalion}}|chapter=Appendix|chapterurl={{fullurl:s:en:Pygmalion/Appendix}}|passage=His prospects consisted of a hope that if he kept up appearances somebody would do something for him. The something appeared vaguely to his imagination as a private secretaryship or a '''sinecure''' of some sort.}}
#* '''2009''', Michael O'Connor, ''Quadrant'', November 2009, No. 461 (Volume LIII, Number 11), Quadrant Magazine Limited, page 25:
#*: In the ADF, while the numbers vary between the individual services and the reserves, employment is no comfortable '''sinecure''' for any personnel and thus does not appeal to many people, male or female, especially under current pay scales.
#* '''2010''', Mungo MacCallum, ''The Monthly'', April 2010, Issue 55, The Monthly Ptd Ltd, page 28:
#*: However, by the time of World War II (if not before), politics, at least in the federal sphere, was no longer regarded as '''sinecure''' for well-intentioned part-timers.
# {{lb|en|historical}} An [[ecclesiastical]] [[benefice]] without the care of [[soul]]s.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Ayliffe}}
#*: A '''sinecure''' is a benefice without cure of souls.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|sinecurism}}
* {{l|en|sinecurist}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a position that requires no work but still gives a payment}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|乾俸|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|干俸|tr=gānfèng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|閒職|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|闲职|tr=xiánzhí|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t|da|loppetjans|c}}, {{t|da|sinecure|c}} {{qualifier|very rare}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sinecure}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sinekuur}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laiskanvirka}}, {{t+|fi|suojatyöpaikka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sinécure}}, {{qualifier|vulgar}} {{t+|fr|planque}}
* German: {{t+|de|Sinekure|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αργομισθία|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|閑職|tr=かんしょく, kanshoku|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sinecura|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|sinecură|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|синеку́ра|f}}, {{t|ru|тёпленькое месте́чко|n}}, {{t+|ru|корму́шка|f}} {{qualifier|feeding trough}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|sinekura|f}}, {{qualifier|pejorative}} {{t|sh|uhljebljenje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|canonjía}}, {{t+|es|sinecura}}, {{qualifier|vulgar}} {{t+|es|enchufe}}, {{t+|es|prebenda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|sinecur}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To put or place in a sinecure.

===Further reading===
* {{pedia}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ceeinrsu|insecure}}

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|da|fr|sinécure}}, from {{der|da|la|sine||without}} + {{m|la|cūra||care}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|da|/sinəkyːrə/|[sinəˈkʰyːɐ]}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|n|r}}

# {{lb|da|rare}} {{l|en|sinecure}} {{gloss|a position that requires no work but still gives a payment}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|n|r}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:DDO}}