==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|sing<,,sang,sung> out}}

# To [[cry]] out in pain.
#* '''1848:''' ''The Autobiography of a Working Man'', p. 285
#*: “But I have known men '''''sing out''''' dreadfully when punished; if they had got enough of rum, it would have supported them, and they would not have '''''sung out'''''.” “Not one drop for me, Charley Hunter; I shall not '''''sing out''''', I promise you, if they cut me to pieces
#* '''1848:''' [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''[[w:Dombey and Son|Dombey and Son]]'', p. 134
#*: “My lad,” said Captain Cuttle, “don’t you '''sing out''' afore you’re hurt.
# {{lb|en|nautical}} To [[call]] out.
#* '''1836:''' Richard Weston, ''A Visit to the United States and Canada in 1833'', p. 9
#*: The pilot would '''sing out''', “Ready about ship,” and the seamen would return answer, “Ay, ay, Sir,”—again he would '''sing out''', “All ready,” and would be answered with “All ready, Sir.”
#* '''1851:''' [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''[[w:Moby Dick|Moby Dick]]'', ch. 36
#*: Vehemently pausing, he [Ahab] cried:—"What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?" "'''Sing out''' for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed voices.
#* '''1854:''' [[w:Richard Henry Dana, Jr.|Richard Henry Dana, Jr.]], ''[[w:Two Years Before the Mast|Two Years Before the Mast]]'', p. 143
#*: This was the first time I had taken a weather earing, and I felt not a little proud to sit astride of the weather yard-arm, pass the earing, and '''sing out''', “Haul out to leeward!”
# To start singing.
#* '''1971:''' [[w:Pete Townshend|Pete Townshend]], “[[w:The Song Is Over|The Song is Over]]”
#*: I’m gonna '''sing out''': / I sing my song to the wide open spaces, / I sing my heart out to the infinite sea!
# {{lb|en|computing}} To exit a user account in a computer system, so that one is not recognized until [[sing in|singing in]] again.
#: ''Please don't forget to '''sing out''' after you finish your work.''
#:{{synonyms|en|log out}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ginostu|Guintos|ousting|outings|outsing|sign out|sign-out|signout|tousing}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (out)]]