==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/saɪz/}}
* {{audio|en-us-size.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪz|-aɪz]]

===Etymology 1===
From Old French ''[[cise]], [[sise]]'', apheticism of ''[[assise]]'' ‘assize’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[dimensions]] or [[magnitude]] of a thing; how big something is.
#: ''The '''size''' of the building seemed to have increased since I was last there.''
# A specific set of dimensions for clothing etc. seen as fitting a person or set of persons.
#: ''I don't think we have the red one in your '''size'''.''
# {{graph theory}} A number of [[edges]] in a [[graph]].
# {{dialectal}} An [[assize]].

====Translations====
{{rfc-level|Translations at L3+ (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Translations)}}
{{trans-top|dimensions or magnitude of a thing}}
* Czech: [[velikost]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|méret}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|размер|m|tr=razm'ér}}, {{t|ru|величина|f|tr=v'eličiná}}, {{t|ru|объём|m|tr=objóm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a specific set of dimensions for clothing}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|méret}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|размер|m|tr=razm'ér}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a number of edges in a graph}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[حجم]]}} {{IPAchar|(ħájem)}} {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[尺寸]] (chǐcùn)
* {{ttbc|Danish}}: [[størrelse]] {{c}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[maat]] {{f}}, [[grootte]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[koko#Finnish|koko]], [[suuruus]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[taille]] {{f}}, [[grandeur]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Größe]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[misura]] {{f}}, [[taglia]] {{f}}, [[grandezza]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[大きさ]] (ōkisa), [[寸法]], [[規模]], [[サイズ]] (saizu)
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[크기]] (keugi)
* {{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[dydis]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[tamanho]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[tamaño]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[storlek]] {{c}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[పరిమాణము]] (parimaaNamu), [[సైజు]] (saiju)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|siz|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To adjust the size of; to make a certain size.
# {{transitive}} To [[classify]] or arrange by size.
# {{context|transitive|colloquial}} To approximate the dimensions, estimate the size of.

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain, perhaps related to Etymology 1, above.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A thin, weak [[glue]] used as [[primer]] for paper or [[canvas]] intended to be painted upon.
# Wallpaper [[paste]].
# The thickened crust on coagulated [[blood]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|siz|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To apply glue or other primer to a surface which is to be painted.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:size]]
[[fa:size]]
[[fr:size]]
[[io:size]]
[[it:size]]
[[kk:size]]
[[hu:size]]
[[pl:size]]
[[pt:size]]
[[ru:size]]
[[simple:size]]
[[fi:size]]
[[ta:size]]
[[te:size]]
[[vi:size]]
[[tr:size]]
[[uk:size]]
[[zh:size]]