==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ONF.|en}} {{term|escuer|lang=fro}}, {{term|eskiuer|lang=fro}}, variants of {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|eschuer|lang=fro}}, {{term|eschiver|lang=fro}}, {{term|eschever|lang=fro}}. Compare {{etyl|stq|-}} {{m|stq|skeeuw||slanting, oblique}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/skjuː/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-skew.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uː|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|mathematics|lang=en}} Neither [[perpendicular]] nor [[parallel]] (usually said of two [[line]]s).

====Derived terms====
* [[skew arch]]
* [[skew back]]
* [[skew bridge]]
* [[skew curve]]
* [[skew gearing]], [[skew bevel gearing]]
* [[skew surface]]
* [[skew symmetrical determinant]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|neither perpendicular nor parallel}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|šikmý|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skæv}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|scheef}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kald}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gauche}}, {{t+|fr|oblique}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|schräg}}, {{t+|de|schief}}, {{t+|de|windschief}}
* Italian: {{t|it|sghembo}}, {{t+|it|obliquo}}, {{t+|it|trasversale}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|skośny|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|asimétrico}}, {{t+|es|oblicuo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To change or alter in a particular direction.
#: ''A disproportionate number of female subjects in the study group '''skewed''' the results.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[shape]] or [[form]] in an [[oblique]] way; to cause to take an oblique position.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[throw]] or [[hurl]] obliquely.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To walk obliquely; to go sidling; to lie or move obliquely.
#* L'Estrange
#*: Child, you must walk straight, without '''skewing'''.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To [[start]] [[aside]]; to [[shy]], as a horse.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To look obliquely; to squint; hence, to look slightingly or suspiciously.
#: {{rfquotek|Beaumont and Fletcher}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to change or alter in a particular direction}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zkreslit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afleiden}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kallutama}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|biaiser}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|distorcere}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|отклоня́ться}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|odchýliť}}, {{t|sk|skresliť}}, {{t|sk|odkloniť}}, {{t|sk|prikloniť}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förvränga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fausser}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[skewness]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|architecture|lang=en}} A stone at the foot of the slope of a [[gable]], the offset of a [[buttress]], etc., cut with a sloping surface and with a check to receive the coping stones and retain them in place.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# Awry; obliquely; askew.

[[et:skew]]
[[fa:skew]]
[[fr:skew]]
[[ko:skew]]
[[hy:skew]]
[[io:skew]]
[[kn:skew]]
[[ku:skew]]
[[hu:skew]]
[[ml:skew]]
[[my:skew]]
[[pl:skew]]
[[fi:skew]]
[[sv:skew]]
[[ta:skew]]
[[tr:skew]]
[[vi:skew]]
[[zh:skew]]