==English==

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|sco|skift||light shower of rain or snow}}, related to {{m|en|skiff||light rain, snow, etc}} (which see for more) and {{m|en|skiffle}}.<ref>Michael Montgomery, ''From Ulster to America: The Scotch-Irish Heritage of American English'' (2006, Ulster Historical Foundation, {{ISBN|9781903688618}}), page 141</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/skɪft/}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪft}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|dialectal|including|Scotland|Shetland|and|Appalachian}} {{synonym of|en|skiff||light shower of rain or snow; light dusting of snow or ice (on ground, water, etc)}}
#* '''1834''', record quoted in '''1956''',  Norman E. Eliason, ''Tarheel Talk'', page 294:
#*: Last night we had a little '''skift''' of snow.
#* '''1857''', "A Winter in the South", in ''Harper's Magazine'', page 726:
#*: Well, there was a little '''skift''' of snow on the ground, and I follered up a ridge of the mountain {{...}}
#* '''1915''', Ed Blair, ''History of Johnson County, Kansas'', page 61:
#*: It was quite cold that morning; just a little '''skift''' of snow. We had not gone a mile from camp before we were overtaken by a score or more of boys going home to Missouri. They had been up to the Wakarusa camp — the pro-slavery troops were&nbsp;...
#* '''1919''', Peter McArthur, ''The Red Cow and Her Friends'', Createspace Independent Pub, page 244:
#*: A “Skift” of Snow <br/>LAST night we had a “skift” of snow, and it was interesting to notice the effect on the summer-born creatures of the farm. A plump young kitten that had not seen the pesky stuff before came to meet me from the stable&nbsp;...
#* '''1939''', Hall, ''Coll'':
#*: We just got out on the top and there was a little skift of snow a-fallin'.
#* '''2001''', ''Cincinnati Magazine'', page 80:
#*: [...] money from the Appalachian Community Development Association and from Cincinnati&#39;s Tall Stacks Festival, so I rented a car and stayed in a motel instead of sleeping on somebody&#39;s floor. There was just a little '''skift''' of snow on the ground.
#* '''2010''', Mark Parman, ''A Grouse Hunter’s Almanac: The Other Kind of Hunting'', page 84:
#*: A '''skift''' of snow had fallen overnight on the ski trails, and Paul had yet to groom them and erase the tracks in the new snow.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|dialectal|of rain or snow}} {{synonym of|en|skiff||fall lightly or briefly, and lightly cover the ground}}
#* '''1911''', Gene Stratton-Porter, ''The Harvester'', page 46:
#*: A mourning dove had returned to him through snow, '''skifting''' over cold earth. It settled on a limb and began dressing its plumage.
#* '''1921'''<!--original date: ?-->, Ernest Rhys, ''The Haunters & the Haunted: Ghost Stories and Tales of the Supernatural'', page 153:
#*: {{...}} Violent gusts of wind came in rapid succession down the sound of Kilbrannan ; and a '''skifting''' rain, flung fitfully but fiercely from the huge black clouds as they hurried along before the tempest that &nbsp;...
#* '''1997''', ''Southern Poetry Review'', volumes 37-38, page 20:
#*: A crest of last night's snow '''skifts''' the powerlines, lengths of it falling to clean asphalt broken and askew, shattered grammar of a landscape whose unheard mutter might explain.
#* '''2013''', Carlene Cross, ''Fleeing Fundamentalism: A Minister's Wife Examines Faith'':
#*: THE PIGEONS SCATTERED as I walked onto the University of Washington campus, crossing the snow '''skifted''' plaza of Red Square with an important document tucked under my arm.
#* '''2019''', Elizabeth Mac Donald, ''A Matter of Interpretation'', Fairlight Books ({{ISBN|9781912054732}})
#*: Surely a sound like this could only bring cold and '''skifting''' rain: it seemed past belief that such a lonely sound could come hurtling through the darkness on a breath as stifling as a furnace. No candle flickered in the windows of the large building&nbsp;...
# {{lb|en|dialectal|possibly|obsolete}} To [[shift]]; to move or [[remove]]. 
#* '''1867''', Edwin Waugh, ''Owd Blanket'', page 10: 
#*: Aw could like yo to '''skift''', afore aw {{...}}<!-- a 1900 edition has It&#39;ll be a poor crayter &#39;at&#39;s yor howd lass, I&#39;ll uphowd. Hoo&#39;s to be pitied, as wheer hon is. Come, I could like yo to skift, afore I slat th&#39; dur i&#39; yor face.-->
#* '''1875''', William Dickinson, ''Cumbriana; Or, Fragments of Cumbrian Life'', page 231:
#*: And a man mun keep watch at t mill toft / To stiddy his mouter-dish — help him to sift it, / And see it&#39;s o&#39; tidily done; / And gedder up offal, and heàmmward to '''skift''' it, / And hev sooins as sure as a gun.
#* '''1887''', Thomas Clarke, ''Specimens of the Dialect of Westmorland'', page 1:
#*: {{...}} teeap wed tak a reet good rin at em, heed brek t&#39; woes wi his heead. Bet he mud rin a gae lang while afooar heed stir a steean i&#39; oor hoose. Ya can haardly '''skift''' em [steeans] wi booarin an blastin. It&#39;s a varra lang while — a caant tell ya hoo lang — {{...}}
#* '''1900''', Halliwell Sutcliffe, ''Shameless Wayne'', page 103:
#*: Ay, he left me drunk t other neet, an&#39; he came back i&#39; a two - three minutes after sober; an&#39; when a man gets '''skifted''' out o&#39; liquor so speedy-like, he gets a sort o&#39; hatred on&#39;t. Leastways, that&#39;s what I&#39;ve noticed more nor once, an&#39; {{...}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Snow]]

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology===
{{bor|enm|non|skipta|pos=verb}} and {{bor|enm|non|skipti|pos=noun}}, from {{der|enm|gem-pro|*skiftijaną}}.

===Noun===
{{enm-noun}}

# [[share]], [[portion]], [[lot]]
#: ''There be many knyghtes that hath envy to us; Therefore whan we shall mete at the day of justis there woll be harde '''skyffte''' for us.'' &mdash; Malory
# [[fate]]
# [[effort]], [[attempt]], [[try]]
#: ''Make ye as good '''skyffte''' as ye can, ye shall bere this lady with you on horsebak unto the Pope of Rome.'' &mdash; Malory

===Verb===
{{enm-verb|stem=skift}}

# to [[divide]], [[share]], [[distribute]], divide up; also, be divided
# to [[disperse]], [[scatter]] ~ in sonder,
# to give a fair share ~ even,
#: even skifted, evenly matched in number, in equal strength
# to [[arrange]], [[ordain]], cause to occur, [[rule]], [[manage]]
#: ''Grete godd wolde so wisely skifte all thynges.'' &mdash; ''The Prose Life of Alexander''
# to [[protect]], [[save]]
# to [[evade]], be rid of.
#: be skifted of, ''She was aferde of hym..and she cowde not be '''skyfte''' … of hym by no meane.'' &mdash; Malory

====Conjugation====
{{enm-conj-wk|skift|head=skift}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology 1===
From the verb {{m|nb|skifte}}

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-n1}}

# a {{l|en|change}} {{qualifier|e.g. of clothes}}
# a {{l|en|shift}} {{qualifier|at work, in employment}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{Template:User:Donnanz/der3-u|lang=nb
|girskift
|klesskift
|nattskift
|oljeskift
|skiftarbeid
}}

===Etymology 2===

====Verb====
{{head|nb|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|nb|skifte||imp}}

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From the verb {{m|nn|skifte}}

===Noun===
{{nn-noun-n1}}

# a {{l|en|change}} {{qualifier|e.g. of clothes}}
# a {{l|en|shift}} {{qualifier|at work, in employment}}

====Derived terms====
{{Template:User:Donnanz/der3-u|lang=nn
|girskift
|klesskift
|nattskift
|oljeskift
|skiftarbeid
}}

===Verb===
{{head|nn|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|nn|skifta||imp}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n}}

# [[shift]]

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-irreg-n}}

====See also====
* [[skifta]]
* [[skifte]]

----

==West Frisian==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|fy}}

===Noun===
{{fy-noun|n|skiften|skiftsje}}

# [[order]] {{qualifier|taxonomy}}

====Further reading====
* {{R:WFT|89460}}