==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/skɪl/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/skIl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-skill.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪl}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|skilen|lang=enm}} (also {{term|schillen|lang=enm}}), partly from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|scylian|lang=ang}}, {{term|scielian||to separate, part, divide off|lang=ang}}; and partly from {{etyl|non}} {{term|skilja||to divide, separate|lang=non}}; both from {{proto|Germanic|skilōnan||skiljanan|to divide, limit|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|(s)kalǝ-||(s)kelǝ-|to split, cut|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|skille||to separate, discard|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|skilja||to distinguish, differentiate, part|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|skilja||to understand|lang=is}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|schelen||to make a difference|lang=nl}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To set apart; [[separate]].
# {{transitive|chiefly|dialectal}} To [[discern]]; have knowledge or understanding; to know how (to).
#* {{rfdate}} Herbert:
#*: I can not '''skill''' of these thy ways.
# {{intransitive}} To have knowledge or comprehension; discern.
# {{intransitive}} To have personal or practical knowledge of; be versed or practised; be expert or dextrous.
# {{intransitive|archaic}} To make a [[difference]]; [[signify]]; [[matter]].
#* {{rfdate}} Herbert:
#*: What '''skills''' it, if a bag of stones or gold / About thy neck do drown thee?
#* {{rfdate}} Sir Walter Scott:
#*: It '''skills''' not talking of it.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|skill|lang=enm}}, {{term|skille|lang=enm}} (also {{term|schil|lang=enm}}, {{term|schile|lang=enm}}), from {{etyl|ang}} {{recons|scile|lang=ang}} and {{etyl|non}} {{term|skil||a distinction, discernment, knowledge|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|skilin|separation, limit|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|(s)kalǝ-||(s)kelǝ-|to split, cut|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|skel||a separation, boundary, divide|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|skäl||reason|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|verschil||difference|lang=nl}}.{{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|schillen (verb)||to sperate the outer layer (schil) from the product|lang=nl}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# [[capacity|Capacity]] to do something well; [[technique]], [[ability]]. Skills are usually acquired or learned, as opposed to abilities, which are often thought of as innate.
# {{rfv-sense}} {{context|Call Management System}} A term referring to the identification, tagging, and distributing of calls via extensions to various individuals (e.g. agents, call-handlers, etc.) skilled in processing such calls.
#* '''2002''', Skills based routing method and system for call center:
#*: Agents can be available to take calls for several '''skills''' at the same time. For example, an agent who speaks both English and Spanish can be available simultaneously to take a call requiring either language.
#* '''2004''' CMS Skill report vs VDN report - ASA 
#*: The VDN is the usually the first entry point for a call into the Avaya switch. Each VDN has a call vector, which has a series of steps that tells the call what to do. If the first step in the call vector is the "queue to '''skill''' ###" step, the ASA would be the same. But if the "queue to '''skill''' ###" step is further down in the call vector after announcements, or prompts, etc, the ASA will be different. The ASA does not start for the split/'''skill''' until the call reaches the "queue to skill ###" step in the call vector.
=====Synonyms=====
* [[ability]]
* [[talent]]
* [[split]] (Call management systems)
* See also [[Wikisaurus:skill]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[skillset]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[skilful]], [[skillful]]
* [[skilled]]
* [[skillfulness]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|capacity to do something well}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|vaardigheid}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مهارة|f|tr=mahaara}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|habilitat|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|技巧|tr=jìqiǎo|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|技能|tr=jìnéng|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|技術|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|技术|tr=jìshù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|schopnost|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bekwaamheid|f}}, {{t+|nl|vaardigheid|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taito}}, {{t+|fi|kyky}}
* French: {{t+|fr|habileté|f}}, {{t+|fr|don|m}}, {{t+|fr|capacité|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschicklichkeit|f}},  {{t+|de|Fähigkeit|f}},  {{t+|de|Kunst|f}},  {{t+|de|Talent|n}},  {{t|de|Fertigkeit|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|יכולת}} (yekholet), {{t+|he|כישרון}} (kisharon)
* Hindi: {{t|hi|कुशलता|f|tr=kuśaltā|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|कौशल|tr=kauśal|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|निपुणता|tr=nipuṇtā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ügyesség}}, {{t+|hu|hozzáértés}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mampu|alt=kemampuan|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|ahli|alt=keahlian|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: [[habilitate]], [[talento]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|abilità|f}},  {{t+|it|capacità|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|スキル|tr=sukiru}},  {{t+|ja|技能|tr=ぎのう, ginō}},  {{t+|ja|技術|tr=ぎじゅつ, gijutsu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|기술|tr=gisul|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: {{t|la|habilitas|f}}, {{t|la|peritia|f}}, {{t|la|potestas|f}}, {{t|la|potentia}}
* Lithuanian: [[įgūdis]] {{m}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|no|ferdighet|m|f}}, {{t|no|dyktighet|m|f}}, {{t|no|talent|n}}, {{t|no|dugleik|m}}, {{t|no|ferdighet|m|f}}, {{t|no|evne|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|no|ferdigheit|f}}, {{t|no|dyktigheit|f}}, {{t|no|dugleik|m}}, {{t|no|talent|n}}, {{t|no|ferdigheit|f}}, {{t|no|evne|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|umiejętność|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|habilidade|f}}, {{t+|pt|talento|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|умение|n|tr=uménije}}, {{t+|ru|навык|m|tr=návyk}}, {{t+|ru|мастерство|n|tr=masterstvó}}, {{t|ru|сноровка|f|tr=snoróvka}}, {{t+|ru|искусство|n|tr=iskússtvo}},  {{t+|ru|способность|f|tr=sposóbnost'}},  {{t+|ru|талант|m|tr=talánt}},  {{t+|ru|дар|m|tr=dar}}
* Slovene: [[spretnost]] {{f}}, [[veščina]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|habilidad|f}}, {{t+|es|talento|m}}, {{t-|es|destreza|f}}, {{t-|es|maña|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|uhodari|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skicklighet|c}}, {{t|sv|färdighet}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|నేర్పు}}(naerpu){{t|te|నిపుణత}}(nipuNata)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{UK|slang}} [[great]], [[excellent]]
#* '''1987''', Teresa Maughan, ''Letters'' (in ''Your Sinclair'' issue 18, June 1987)
#*: Well, unfortunately for you, my dearest Waggipoos, I'm much more '''skill''' than you!
#* '''1991''', ''Wreckers'' (video game review in ''Crash'' issue 88, May 1991)
#*: This game is '''skill'''. Remember that because it's going to sound really complicated.
#* '''1999''', "Andy Smith", ''I am well '''skill''''' (on Internet newsgroup ''alt.digitiser'')
#*: And I am '''skiller''' than you.

===Anagrams===
* [[kills]]

===References===
* Skel i {{R:ODS online}}

[[am:skill]]
[[ang:skill]]
[[cs:skill]]
[[cy:skill]]
[[et:skill]]
[[el:skill]]
[[es:skill]]
[[eo:skill]]
[[fa:skill]]
[[fr:skill]]
[[ko:skill]]
[[io:skill]]
[[id:skill]]
[[it:skill]]
[[kn:skill]]
[[sw:skill]]
[[ku:skill]]
[[li:skill]]
[[hu:skill]]
[[mg:skill]]
[[ml:skill]]
[[my:skill]]
[[nl:skill]]
[[ja:skill]]
[[pl:skill]]
[[pt:skill]]
[[ru:skill]]
[[simple:skill]]
[[fi:skill]]
[[sv:skill]]
[[ta:skill]]
[[te:skill]]
[[th:skill]]
[[tr:skill]]
[[vi:skill]]
[[zh:skill]]