==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|en}} {{term|skyrta|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|skurtijōn|lang=gem-pro}}. Compare {{term|lang=en|shirt}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-skirt.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-skirt.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(r)t}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An article of [[clothing]], usually worn by [[woman|women]] and [[girl]]s, that hangs from the [[waist]] and covers the lower part of the body.
#* {{circa|1907}} {{w|O. Henry}}, ''The Purple Dress'':
#*: "I like purple best," said Maida. "And old Schlegel has promised to make it for $8. It's going to be lovely. I'm going to have a plaited '''skirt''' and a blouse coat trimmed with a band of galloon under a white cloth collar with two rows of—"
# The part of a [[dress]] or [[robe]] that hangs below the [[waist]].
#* '''1885''', {{w|Ada S. Ballin}}, ''The Science of Dress in Theory and Practice'', Chapter XI:
#*: The petticoats and '''skirts''' ordinarily worn are decidedly the heaviest part of the dress ; hence it is necessary that some reform should be effected in these.
# {{slang}} A woman.
#* '''1931''', {{w|Robert E. Howard}}, ''Alleys of Peril'':
#*: "Mate," said the Cockney, after we'd finished about half the bottle, "it comes to me that we're a couple o' blightin' idjits to be workin' for a '''skirt'''."
#*: "What d'ya mean?" I asked, taking a pull at the bottle.
#*: "Well, 'ere's us, two red-blooded 'e-men, takin' orders from a lousy little frail, 'andin' the swag h'over to 'er, and takin' wot she warnts to 'and us, w'en we could 'ave the 'ole lot. Take this job 'ere now--"
# A part that serves as a [[border]] or [[edging]].

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|article of clothing}} It was formerly common to speak of “skirts” (plural) rather than “a skirt”. In some cases this served to emphasize an array of skirts of underskirts, or of pleats and folds in a single skirt; in other cases it made little or no difference in meaning.

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[miniskirt]]
* [[prairie skirt]]
* [[rah-rah skirt]]
* [[skirt chaser]]
{{mid2}}
* [[skirted]]
* [[skirtless]]
* [[unskirted]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|clothing}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تنورة|f|tr=tannuura|sc=Arab}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|falda|f}}, {{t|ast|saya|f}}
* Baluchi: {{tø|bal|دامن|tr=dáman}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|спадніца|f|tr=spadníca|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пола|f|tr=polá|}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|faldilla|f}}
* Chamicuro: {{tø|ccc|ita'la}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|裙子|tr=qúnzi|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|裙|tr=qún|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|sukně|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|nederdel|c}}, {{t-|da|skørt|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rok|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|jupo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|hõlm}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|skjúrt|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hame}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jupe|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|saia|f}}, {{t|gl|faldra|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rock|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φούστα|f|tr=fusta}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|חצאית|f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|स्कर्ट|f|tr=skarṭ|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szoknya}}, {{t+|hu|alj}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|pils|n}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|jupo|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gonna|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|スカート|tr=sukāto|sc=Jpan}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|cotelle|f}}, {{tø|roa-jer|cotillon|m}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|치마|tr=chima|sc=Kore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Jupe|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|здолниште|n}}, {{t|mk|здолница|f}}, {{t|mk|сукња|f}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|dublett|m}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|tłʼaakał}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skjørt|n}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|scyrte|f}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|دامن|tr=dâman|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|دامن دوخت|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|spódnica|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saia|f}}
* Romani: {{tø|rom|rotya|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|fustă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|юбка|f|tr=júbka}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|сукња|f}}
*: Latin: {{t|sh|suknja|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|sukňa|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|krilo|n}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|falda|f}}, {{t|es|enaguas|f|p}} {{qualifier|Costa Rica|Nicaragua}}, {{t|es|pollera|f}} {{qualifier|Argentina|Chile|Paraguay|Uruguay}}, {{t|es|saya|f}} {{qualifier|Cuba}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kjol|c}}
* Taos: {{t|twf|yúwolaną}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|పరికిణి|tr=parikiNi}}
* Thai: {{t|th|กระโปรง|tr=grà-bprohng|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|etek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|спідниця|f|tr=spidnýcja|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|سکرٹ|f|tr=skarṭ|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|váy}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|juüp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of dress}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|faldilla|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|sukně}}
* Danish: {{t|da|nederdel|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rok|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|jupo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|niðurpartur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hame}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jupe|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rock|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φούστα|f|tr=fusta}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|alj}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|gonna}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gonna|f}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Jupe|f}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|dublett|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skjørt|n}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|læppa|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|юбка|f|tr=júbka}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|suknja|f|alt=sȕknja}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|falda|f}}, {{t|es|enaguas|f|p}} {{qualifier|Costa Rica|Nicaragua}}, {{t|es|pollera|f}} {{qualifier|Argentina|Chile|Paraguay|Uruguay}}, {{t|es|saya|f}} {{qualifier|Cuba}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kjol|c}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|juüp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something resembling a skirt}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hame}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jupe|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Rock|m}}, {{t|de|Schurz|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Jupe|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saia|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|юбка|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|сукња|f}}
*: Latin: {{t|sh|suknja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang for woman}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|фуста|f|tr=fústa|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|ženská|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hame}}
* German: {{t|de|Rock|m}}, {{t|de|Weiberrock|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ποδόγυρος|m|tr=podoyiros}}, {{t+|el|φουστάνι|f|tr=fustani}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rabo-de-saia|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|юбка|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|жена|f}}
*: Latin: {{t|sh|žena|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kjoltyg|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|border}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|reunus}}, {{t+|fi|helma}}
* German: {{t+|de|Saum|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|borda|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|граница|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top|(probably for definition 1)}}
* {{ttbc|af}}: [[rok]]
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[fund]] {{g|sq}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{Arab|[[التنورة]]}} {{f}}
* {{ttbc|az}}: [[yubka]]
* {{ttbc|eu}}: [[gona]]
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[пола]] (pola) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|et}}: [[seelik]]
* {{ttbc|fy}}: [[jûpe]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|ka}}: [[ქვედაკაბა]] (k’vedakaba)
* {{ttbc|el}}: [[φούστα]] (phoústa) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[עקף|עָקַף]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|hi}}: [[स्कर्ट]] (skart.a)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[rok]]
* {{ttbc|ga}}: [[sciorta]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|lv}}: [[stērbele]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|lt}}: [[sijonas]]
* {{ttbc|mn}}: [[банзал]] (banzal)
* {{ttbc|no}}: {{t|no|skjørt}}
* {{ttbc|pap}}: [[saya]]
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{fa-Arab|[[دامن دوخت]]}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[pulpană]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[bočnica]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|sw}}: [[skati]] ''( nc 9/10)''
* {{ttbc|tl}}: [[saya]]
* {{ttbc|th}}: {{Thai|[[กระโปรง]]}} (grà-bpronge)
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[etek]]
* {{ttbc|uk}}: [[спідниця]] (spidnýcja) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[vạt áo]]
* {{ttbc|cy}}: [[sgert]]
* {{ttbc|yi}}: [[קליידל]] (kleidel) {{n}}
* {{ttbc|zu}}: [[ingubo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To be on or form the [[border]] of.
# To move around or along the border of; to avoid the center of.
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 1
#*: An enormous man and woman (it was early-closing day) were stretched motionless, with their heads on pocket-handkerchiefs, side by side, within a few feet of the sea, while two or three gulls gracefully '''skirted''' the incoming waves, and settled near their boots.

====Related terms====
* [[skirting-board]]
* [[outskirt]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to be on or from the border of}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|begrenzen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ympäröidä}}, {{t-|fi|reunustaa}}
* German: {{t|de|umgehen}}, {{t|de|umrunden}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|costear}}, {{t|ia|contornar}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|rodear}}, {{t|pt|contornar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|ограничивать}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|граничити|alt=граничити се}}
*: Latin: {{t|sh|graničiti|alt=graničiti se}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[omeđiti]], [[ići duž]]
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[omzomen]], [[omcirkelen]]
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[preteriri]]
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[säumen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[beirar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[stirk#English|stirk]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:en:Clothing]]
[[Category:en:Skirts]]

[[ar:skirt]]
[[az:skirt]]
[[cs:skirt]]
[[de:skirt]]
[[et:skirt]]
[[el:skirt]]
[[es:skirt]]
[[eo:skirt]]
[[eu:skirt]]
[[fa:skirt]]
[[fr:skirt]]
[[ko:skirt]]
[[io:skirt]]
[[id:skirt]]
[[it:skirt]]
[[kl:skirt]]
[[kn:skirt]]
[[kk:skirt]]
[[lo:skirt]]
[[li:skirt]]
[[hu:skirt]]
[[mg:skirt]]
[[my:skirt]]
[[nl:skirt]]
[[pl:skirt]]
[[pt:skirt]]
[[ro:skirt]]
[[ru:skirt]]
[[simple:skirt]]
[[fi:skirt]]
[[sv:skirt]]
[[ta:skirt]]
[[te:skirt]]
[[th:skirt]]
[[tr:skirt]]
[[vi:skirt]]
[[zh:skirt]]