==English==
===Adjective===
{{en-adj|pos=[[slam]]-[[bang]]|-}}
# {{onomat}} Noisy, [[raucous]].
#*'''1959''', [[w:Saul Bellow|Saul Bellow]], [[w:Henderson the Rain King|''Henderson the Rain King'']], 1996 Penguin Classics edition, ISBN 0140189424, page 173,
#*:At a signal from Horko's box there was an all-out, '''slam-bang''', grand salute of the guns and with it a pounding of the deep liquid bass drums.
#*'''2001''', [[w:V. C. Andrews|V. C. Andrews]], ''Cinnamon'', Simon and Schuster, ISBN 074342171X, page 188,
#*:Their arguments weren't pleasant to hear or to watch, but they weren't yet having the all-out, '''slam-bang''' quarrels they would have when I was older.
#*'''2003''', Jacquelyn Mitchard, ''Christmas, Present'', HarperCollins, ISBN 0060565578, page 2,
#*:Fifteen years of marriage in full would cry out for a '''slam-bang''' celebration.
#Violent, forceful
#*'''1932''', [[w:P. G. Wodehouse|P. G. Wodehouse]], "Monkey Business",
#*:"If you had led the rough, tough, '''slam-bang''', every-man-for-himself life I have, you wouldn't be frightened of gorillas...."
#*'''1961''', [[w:Joseph Heller|Joseph Heller]], [[w:Catch-22|''Catch-22'']], chapter 2,
#*:"I'm a real, '''slam-bang''', honest-to-goodness, three-fisted humdinger. I'm a bona fide supraman."<!--sic 'supraman'-->
#*'''2000''', Linda Parent Lesher, ''The Best Novels of the Nineties: A Reader's Guide'', McFarland & Company, ISBN 0786407425, page 99
#*:''Temporary Agency'' begins with a tale of demonic possession and adolescent crushes and ends with a '''slam-bang''', all-out global confrontation between the forces of good and evil.
#*'''2004''', Lindsey Davis, ''Scandal Takes a Holiday'', Mysterious Press, ISBN 0892968125, page 4,
#*:The boy seemed streetwise yet clearly unaware that this was an officer whose '''slam-bang''' interrogation methods were a legend.
#*'''2007''', John Dunning, ''The Bookwoman's Last Fling: A Cliff Janeway Novel'', Simon and Schuster, ISBN 1416523391, page 2
#*:The waiter took my order, a '''slam-bang''' something with eggs and pancakes: enough cholesterol to power the whole state of Idaho.
#{{rfdef}}
#*'''2004''' March 18–24, Jack Harvey (pseudonym), "Once Again, Oscar Is King Of The Rings"<!--sic all words have initial caps-->, in ''[[w:The Onion|The Onion]]'', available in ''Embedded in America'', ISBN 1400054567, page 114,
#*:After this '''slam-bang''' production, the next is sure to be a huge letdown.
#*'''2005''', John Reed, ''The Whole'', Simon and Schuster, ISBN 1416513108, page 43,
#*:An eentsy-weentsy office with a '''slam-bang''' T1 connection that she couldn't figure out how to hook up to her '''slam-bang''' computer that she couldn't figure out how to plug in.
===Adverb===
{{en-adv|pos=[[slam]]-[[bang]]|-}}
#{{rfdef}}
#*'''19th cent.''',<!--can't find exact date, but it should be findable--> [[w:Robert Montgomery Bird|Robert Montgomery Bird]], ''Nick of the Woods'', 1967 Rowman & Littlefield edition, ISBN 0808402358, page 48,
#*:Well! as soon as I jumped out of his way, bang went his piece, and bang went another, let fly by an Injun;—down went the Major, shot right through the hips, '''slam-bang'''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
#{{onomat}} Noisy activity.
#*'''2005''', Monica Wood, ''Any Bitter Thing: A Novel'', Chronicle Books, ISBN 0811846040, page 71,
#*:From far down the hall came the staccato notes of a new term, the '''slam-bang''' of teachers flinging open cabinets, filling trash cans, stapling lists to bulletin boards, dragging desks into optimistic configurations.

===Quotations=== 
(uncertain sense)
====Noun====
#*'''1985''', Paul Theroux, "Introduction", to, Henry James, ''What Maisie Knew'', Penguin Classics, ISBN 0140432485, page 13,
#*:But James in describing the '''slam-bang''' of her upbringing has given us every reason for her turning out crazy, vengeful or anti-social.

[[vi:slam-bang]]