==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
1756, {{unk.|title=origin unknown}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|slăng}}, {{IPA|/slæŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/sl{N/}}
* {{rhymes|æŋ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Language outside of conventional usage.
# Language that is [[unique]] to a particular [[profession]] or [[subject]]; [[jargon]].
# The specialized [[language]] of a social group, sometimes used to make what is said unintelligible to those not members of the group; [[cant]].
#* '''1872''', George Eliot, ''Middlemarch''
#*: "Oh, there are so many superior teas and sugars now. Superior is getting to be shopkeepers' '''slang'''."
#*: "Are you beginning to dislike '''slang''', then?" said Rosamond, with mild gravity.
#*: "Only the wrong sort. All choice of words is '''slang'''. It marks a class."
#*: "There is correct English: that is not '''slang'''."
#*: "I beg your pardon: correct English is the '''slang''' of prigs who write history and essays. And the strongest '''slang''' of all is the '''slang''' of poets."

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|jargon}} [[vernacular]], [[jargon]], [[lingo]], [[dialect]], [[cant]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|slang}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|عامية|f|tr=`aammíyya}} (''Eastern Arabic''), {{t|ar|دارجة|f|tr=daarija}} (''Western Arabic'')
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|argot|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|俚語|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|俚语|tr=lǐyǔ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|行語|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|行语|tr=hángyǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|slang|m}}, {{t|cs|hantýrka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|slangi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|argot|m}}, {{t|fr|langue verte|f}}, {{t+|fr|jargon|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Slang|m}}, {{t+|de|Jargon|m}}, {{t+|de|Umgangssprache|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αργκό|f|tr=argkó}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szleng}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|俗語|tr=ぞくご, zokugo}}, {{t|ja|俚言|tr=りげん, rigen}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|slang|m}}, {{t+|pl|żargon|m}}, {{t+|pl|gwara|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|calão|m}}, {{t|pt|jargão|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|argou|n}}, {{t|ro|jargon|n}}, {{t|ro|slang|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сленг|m|tr=sleng}}, {{t+|ru|жаргон|m|tr=žargón}}, {{t|ru|арго|n|tr=argó}} {{indeclinable}}, {{t|ru|феня|f|tr=fénja}} (''in the criminal world''), {{t|ru|разговорная речь|f|tr=razgovórnaja reč'}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|truaill-chainnt|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|argot|m}}, {{t+|es|jerga|f}}, {{t|es|germanía|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slang}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t|tl|salitang balbal}}, {{t|tl|salitang kalye}}, {{t|tl|salitang kanto}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|argo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|jargon}}

{{trans-see|cant}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}: {{t-|hr|sleng|m}}, {{t+|hr|žargon|m}}, {{t-|hr|argo|m}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[Bargoens]] {{n}}, [[dialect]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|gergo|m}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: {{t+|he|סלנג|m|alt=סְלֶנְג|tr=sleng}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[속어]] [俗語] (sok-eo)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[gíria]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: {{t-|ro|slang|n}}
* {{ttbc|gd}}: [[truaill-chainnte]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|argot|m}}, {{t+|es|jerga|f}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: Shabdham
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive|dated}} To vocally [[abuse]], or shout at.
#* '''1888''', Also, he had to keep his temper when he was '''slanged''' in the theatre porch by a policeman — Rudyard Kipling, ‘Miss Youghal's ''Sais''’, ''Plain Tales from the Hills'' (Folio Society 2007, p. 26)

====See also====
* [[:Category:English slang]]

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[glans#English|glans]]
* [[langs#English|langs]]

----

==Czech==
{{wikipedia|lang=cs}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|slang]]

[[Category:cs:Linguistics]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{term|slange|lang=dum}}, from {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{term|slango|lang=odt}}, from {{proto|Germanic|slangô|snake, serpent|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-slang.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/slɑŋ/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=f|dim=slangetje|pl=slangen}}

# [[snake]]
# [[hose]] (flexible tube)

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|?}} [[serpent#Dutch|serpent]]

====Derived terms====
* [[stofzuigerslang]]
* [[tuinslang]]

===Anagrams===
* [[glans#Dutch|glans]], [[langs#Dutch|langs]]

[[Category:nl:Snakes]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} {{term|slang|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# English [[#English|slang]]
#: ''Twain fut un des premiers auteurs provenant des terres intérieures des États-Unis qui a su capturer la distinction, le '''slang''' comique et l'iconoclasme de sa nation.''

===See also===
* [[argot]]

----

==Limburgish==

===Etymology 1===
From Dutch.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|[slɑŋ(ɡ)]|lang=li}}

====Noun====
'''slang''' {{f}}

# [[hose]] (flexible tube)

===Etymology 2===
From English.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|[slæŋ(ɡ)]|lang=li}}

====Noun====
'''slang''' {{f}}

# [[slang#English|slang]]

[[Category:Limburgish entries lacking inflection]]
[[Category:Limburgish nouns]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|ro}} {{term|slang|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/slanɡ/|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|slanguri}}

# [[#English|slang]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-n|pl=slanguri|def=slangul}}

====Synonyms====
* [[argou]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[hose]], [[tube]], flexible [[pipe]]
# {{uncountable|lang=sv}} [[#English|slang]] (language)

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar|definitions=1}}
{{sv-noun-unc-irreg-c|2=slangen|definitions=2}}

----

==Tagalog==

===Noun===
{{tl-noun}}

# {{colloquial|informal|lang=tl}} A thick [[foreign]] [[accent]] in English.
#: Ayos ka mag-Ingles a, parang Kano, ''slang'' na ''slang''!
#:: That´s some English diction you have, like an American, with their accent!

[[af:slang]]
[[zh-min-nan:slang]]
[[br:slang]]
[[et:slang]]
[[el:slang]]
[[es:slang]]
[[eo:slang]]
[[fa:slang]]
[[fr:slang]]
[[fy:slang]]
[[gl:slang]]
[[ko:slang]]
[[io:slang]]
[[zu:slang]]
[[it:slang]]
[[kn:slang]]
[[sw:slang]]
[[ku:slang]]
[[lt:slang]]
[[li:slang]]
[[hu:slang]]
[[ml:slang]]
[[my:slang]]
[[nl:slang]]
[[no:slang]]
[[pl:slang]]
[[ru:slang]]
[[sk:slang]]
[[fi:slang]]
[[sv:slang]]
[[ta:slang]]
[[te:slang]]
[[tr:slang]]
[[vi:slang]]
[[zh:slang]]