==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=slash (disambiguation)|slash}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/slæʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A swift cut with a blade, particularly with fighting weapons as a sword, saber, knife etc.
# A swift striking movement.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 29
|author=Chris Whyatt
|title=Chelsea 1 - 0 Bolton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9309542.stm
|page=
|passage=Centre-back Branislav Ivanovic then took a wild '''slash''' at the ball but his captain John Terry saved Chelsea's skin by hacking the ball clear for a corner with Kevin Davies set to strike from just six yards out. }}
# The symbol '''[[/]]''', also called [[diagonal]], [[separatrix]], [[shilling mark]], [[solidus]], [[stroke]], [[virgule]]. Also sometimes known as a [[forward slash]], particularly in [[computing]].
# {{context|British|slang|lang=en}} A [[pee]], a trip to the toilet to urinate
#: ''Excuse me, I need to take a '''slash'''''
# [[slash fiction|Slash fiction]].
#* '''2013''', Katherine Arcement, "Diary", ''London Review of Books'', vol. 35, no. 5:
#*: Comments merely allow readers to proclaim themselves mortally offended by the content of a story, despite having been warned in large block letters of INCEST or '''SLASH''' (any kind of sex between two men or two women: the term originated with the Kirk/Spock pairing – it described the literal slash between their names).
# {{context|vulgar|slang|lang=en}} The [[female]] [[genitalia]]
# {{context|ice hockey|lang=en}} A quick and hard lateral strike with a [[hockey stick]], usually across the arms or legs.
# {{context|US|dialect|lang=en}} [[swampy]] or wet lands overgrown with bushes
#: {{rfquotek|Bartlett}}
# {{context|forestry|lang=en}} Coarse, fine woody debris generated during logging operations or through wind, snow, etc.
#: '''''Slash''' generated during logging operations may increase fire hazard.''
# {{context|fashion|lang=en}} An opening in an item of clothing to show skin or a contrasting fabric underneath.

====Derived terms====
* [[backslash]]
* [[foreslash]]
* [[forward slash]]
* [[frontslash]]
* [[front slash]]
* [[slashable]]
* [[slashy]]

====See also====
{{punctuation}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|swift cut with a blade}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|řez|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sivallus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hieb|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fendente|m}}, {{t+|it|sfregio|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|talho|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hugg|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: trip to the toilet to urinate}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|mijada|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hechar una meada|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|symbol}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|斜線號|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|斜线号|tr=xiéxiànhào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|lomítko|n}}
* Danish: {{t|da|skråstreg}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schuine streep|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vinoviiva}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bruchstrich|m}}, {{t+|de|Schrägstrich|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|δεξιότροπη κάθετος}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|לוכסן|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|barra|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|スラッシュ|tr=surasshu}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|slache|f}}, {{t|roa-jer|slache en avant|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|коса црта|f|tr=kósa c'rta}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|rītaha}}, {{t|mi|tohu rītaha}}, {{t|mi|hahae}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|skråstrek|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|ukośnik|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|barra|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|слэш|m|tr=sleš}},  {{t|ru|косая черта|f|tr=kosája čertá}},  {{t+|ru|косая|f|tr=kosája}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|barra|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|snedstreck|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bölü}}, {{t+|tr|taksim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|slash fiction}}

{{trans-top|vulgar slang: female genitalia}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viiva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|fessa|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ice hockey: quick and hard lateral strike with a hockey stick}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|seknutí|n}}, {{t+|cs|sekera|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[entaille]] {{g|f}} (3)
* Japanese: {{t-check|ja|斬撃 (ざんげき)|tr=zangeki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t-check|roa-jer|slache|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|es}}

# To [[cut]] violently across something with a blade such as [[knife]], [[sword]], [[scythe]], etc.
# {{context|ice hockey|lang=en}} to strike laterally with a [[hockey stick]]. usually across the legs or arms
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} to [[reduce]] [[sharply]]
#: ''Iran on Thursday called on [[OPEC]] to '''slash''' output by 2 million barrels per day.''
#: ''The department store '''slashed''' its prices to attract customers.''
# To [[lash]] with a [[whip]].
#: {{rfquotek|King}}
# To crack or snap (e.g. a whip).
#: {{rfquotek|Dr. H. More}}

====Derived terms====
[[slash pile]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to cut across something with a knife, sword, etc}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разсичам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|říznout}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|viiltää}}, {{t|fi|sivaltaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|entailler}}, {{t+|fr|taillader}}
* German: {{t|de|aufschlitzen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hasít}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sfregiare}}, {{t+|it|fendere}}, {{t+|it|falciare}}, {{t+|it|mietere}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|sâbrer}}, {{t|roa-jer|slachi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hae}}, {{t|mi|hahae}}, {{t|mi|hōripiripi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|полосовать|tr=polosovátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|рубить|tr=rubítʹ}}, {{t+|ru|рассекать|tr=rassekátʹ}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hugga}}, {{t+|sv|kapa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-con}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Used to connect two or more identities in a list.}}
#: ''I'm a teacher '''slash''' student.''
# {{non-gloss definition|Used to list alternatives.}}
#: ''I think I'm having hallucinations '''slash''' someone is playing tricks on me''

====See also====
* [[/]]

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]

[[de:slash]]
[[et:slash]]
[[el:slash]]
[[fr:slash]]
[[ko:slash]]
[[hy:slash]]
[[io:slash]]
[[it:slash]]
[[kn:slash]]
[[ku:slash]]
[[hu:slash]]
[[ml:slash]]
[[my:slash]]
[[nl:slash]]
[[pl:slash]]
[[pt:slash]]
[[ru:slash]]
[[simple:slash]]
[[sh:slash]]
[[fi:slash]]
[[tl:slash]]
[[ta:slash]]
[[te:slash]]
[[chr:slash]]
[[tr:slash]]
[[vi:slash]]
[[zh:slash]]