{{wikipedia|dab=slide}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/slaɪd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-slide.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪd}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[slīdan]]''

===Verb===
{{en-verb|slides|sliding|slid}}

# {{transitive}} To cause to move in continuous contact with a surface
#: ''He '''slid''' the boat across the grass.''
# {{intransitive}} To move in continuous contact with a surface.
#: ''The safe '''slid''' slowly.''
# {{intransitive}} To move on a low friction surface.
#: ''The car '''slid''' on the ice.''
# {{intransitive|baseball}} To drop down and skid into a base.
#: ''Jones '''slid''' into second.''
# {{intransitive}} To lose one’s balance on a slippery surface.
#: ''He '''slid''' while going around the corner.''
# {{intransitive}} To let pass without action.
#: ''The administrator let the minor infraction '''slide''' with only a disapproving look.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to cause to move in contact with a surface}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|滑|tr=huá|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|滑行|tr=huáxíng|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|溜|tr=liū|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|slepen}}, {{t+|nl|schuiven}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|liu'uttaa}}, {{t+|fi|työntää}}, {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|glisser}}
* German: {{t+|de|gleiten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|csúsztat}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|renna}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滑る|tr=suberu}}; {{qualifier|engineering}} {{t|ja|慴動させる|tr=shūdō saseru}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|катить|tr=katít’}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|deslizar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move in continuous contact with a surface}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|انزلق|tr=inzálaqa}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|滑|tr=huá|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|滑行|tr=huáxíng|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|溜|tr=liū|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|glijden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liukua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|glisser}}
* German: {{t+|de|gleiten}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csúszik}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|scivolare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滑る|tr=suberu}}; {{qualifier|engineering}} {{t|ja|慴動する|tr=shūdō suru}}
* Korean: [[미끄러지다]] (miggeureojida)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|deslizar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скользить|tr=skol’zít’}},  {{t|ru|катиться|tr=katít’sja}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|drseti}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|resbalar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|glida}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move with low friction}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|klouzat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|glijden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liukua}}, {{t-|fi|luisua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|glisser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|rutschen}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|scivolare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滑る|tr=suberu}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|drseti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in baseball}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syöksyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to lose balance}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitglijden}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|liukastua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|glisser}}
* German: {{t+|de|ausrutschen}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|elcsúszik}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|scivolare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滑る|tr=suberu}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|poślizgnąć się}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|поскользнуться|tr=poskol’znút’sja}}
* Slovene: [[spodrsniti]], [[zdrsniti]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|resbalar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to let pass}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mennä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: ([[neopaženo]]) [[miniti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[toy]] for [[child]]ren where they climb up and then slide, [[glide]] down again.
#: ''The long, red '''slide''' was great fun for the kids.''
# The event of large amounts of [[rubble]], [[earth]] and [[stones]] moving down the slope of a hill or from a mountain.
#: ''The '''slide''' closed the highway.''
# A [[lever]] that can be moved in two directions.
# A [[valve]] that works by sliding such as in a [[trombone]].
# A [[transparent]] [[image]], to be [[project]]ed to a [[screen]].
# {{baseball}} The act of dropping down and skidding into a base
# {{science}} A flat, rectangular piece of glass on which a prepared sample may be viewed through a [[microscope]]; a [[microscope slide]].

====Derived terms====
* [[landslide]]
* [[mudslide]]
* [[water slide]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|toy}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|skluzavka|f}}
* Dutch: [[glijbaan]] {{f}}, [[schuifaf]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liukumäki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|toboggan|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rutsche|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csúszda}}
* Icelandic: [[renna]] {{f}}, [[rennibraut]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滑り台|tr=suberidai}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zjeżdżalnia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|escorrego}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|горка|f|tr=górka}}
* Slovene: [[tobogan]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tobogán|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rubble, earth and stones moving down}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|sesuv|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lawine|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|maanvyöry}}, {{t-|fi|maanvyörymä}}
* French: [[glissement]], [[glissement de terrain]]
* German: {{t+|de|Erdrutsch|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|地滑り|tr=jisuberi}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|osuwisko}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|оползень|m|tr=ópolzen'}}
* Slovene: [[udor]]
* Spanish: [[corrimiento]] {{m}}, [[corrimiento de tierra]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lever}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schuif|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vipu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|valve in eg. a trombone}}
* Dutch: [[ventiel]] {{n}}
* Finnish: [[luisti]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|スライド|tr=suraido}}
* Slovene: [[drsalni zaklopec]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transparent image for projecting}}
* Czech: [[snímek]] {{m}} ''(about a slide in presentation software)'', [[diák]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dia|m}}, {{t+|nl|slide|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|dia}}, {{t-|fi|diapositiivi}}, {{t-|fi|kuultokuva}}
* French: {{t+|fr|diapo}}, {{t+|fr|diapositive}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Dia]] {{n}}, [[Klarsichtfolie]] {{f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|スライド|tr=suraido}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|diapozitiv|n}}
* Slovene: [[dias]], [[diapozitiv]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|diapositiva|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in baseball}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|syöksy}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|スライディング|tr=suraidingu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}

'''from verbs'''
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[glitar]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[gelincir|menggelincir]], [[gelincir|tergelincir]], [[luncur|meluncur]]

'''from noun'''
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[lumbildo]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[lumbildo]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|deils}}
* [[delis#English|delis]]
* [[ædiles#English|ædiles]]
* [[idles#English|idles]]
* [[sidle#English|sidle]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:slide]]
[[el:slide]]
[[fa:slide]]
[[fr:slide]]
[[ko:slide]]
[[io:slide]]
[[it:slide]]
[[kn:slide]]
[[kk:slide]]
[[lo:slide]]
[[hu:slide]]
[[nl:slide]]
[[pl:slide]]
[[ru:slide]]
[[simple:slide]]
[[fi:slide]]
[[ta:slide]]
[[te:slide]]
[[uk:slide]]
[[vi:slide]]
[[zh:slide]]