==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=slow}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|slaw|slāw}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/sləʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/sl@U/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/sloʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/sloU/}}
* {{audio|en-us-slow.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|əʊ}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Taking a long [[time]] to move or go a short [[distance]], or to perform an action; not [[quick]] in [[motion]]; [[proceed]]ing at a [[low]] speed.
# Not happening in a short time; [[spread]] over a comparatively long time.
#: ''These changes in the heavens, though '''slow''', produced Like change on sea and land, sidereal blast.'' --Milton
# Of reduced [[intellectual]] [[capacity]]; not quick to [[comprehend]].
#: ''John is very '''slow'''; he is ten seconds behind everybody else when it comes to math.''
# Not [[hasty]]; not [[precipitate]]; lacking in [[promptness]]; acting with [[deliberation]].
#: ''He that is '''slow''' to wrath is of great understanding.'' --Prov. xiv. 29.
# [[behind|Behind]] in time; indicating a time [[early|earlier]] than the [[true]] time.
#: ''That clock is '''slow'''.''
# Lacking [[spirit]]; [[deficient]] in [[liveliness]] or [[briskness]].

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:slow]]
* {{sense|taking a long time to move a short distance}} [[deliberate]]; [[moderate]]
* {{sense|not happening in a short time}} [[gradual]]
* {{sense|of reduced intellectual capacity}} [[dull-witted]]
* {{sense|acting with deliberation}} [[dilatory]], [[inactive]], [[tardy]], [[slothful]], [[sluggish]]
* {{sense|lacking spirit}} [[boring]], [[dull]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|taking a long time to move a short distance}} [[fast]], [[quick]], [[rapid]], [[swift]]
* {{sense|of reduced intellectual capacity}} [[prompt]], [[quick]]
* {{sense|acting with deliberation}} [[hasty]], [[precipitate]], [[prompt]]
* {{sense|lacking spirit}} [[brisk]], [[lively]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from "slow"}}
* [[slow motion]], [[slo-mo]]
* [[slow-belly]]
* [[slow burn]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[slowish]]
* [[slowly]]
* [[slowness]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[slowpoke]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not quick in motion}}
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{t|ase|OpenB@BackHand-PalmDown OpenB@BackWrist-PalmDown}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[بطيء]]}} {{IPAchar|(baʈí’)}}
* Armenian: [[դանդաղ]] (dandaġ)
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|yakameleste}}
* Chinese: [[慢]] (màn)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pomalý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|traag}}, {{t+|nl|langzaam}}, {{t+|nl|sloom}}
* Esperanto: [[malrapida]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hidas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lent|m}}, {{t+|fr|lente|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|langsam}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αργός|m|tr=argós|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|βραδύς|m|tr=vradís|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[לאט]] (la’át)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lassú}}
* Indonesian: [[lambat]], [[pelan]], [[perlahan]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|lento|m}}, {{t+|it|lenta|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[遅い]] (おそい, osoi), [[ゆっくり]] (yukkuri)
* Korean: [[느린]] (neurin)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|له‌سه‌ر خۆ|tr=leser xo|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|هێواش|tr=héwash|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wolny}}, {{t+|pl|powolny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lento}}, {{t+|pt|devagar}}
* Romanian: [[încet]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|медленный|tr=médlennyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|mall|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|pomalý}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lento}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|långsam}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[నిదానము]] (nidaanamu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yavaş}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|araf|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spread over a comparatively long time}}
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{t|ase|OpenB@BackHand-PalmDown OpenB@BackWrist-PalmDown}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pomalý|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: [[αργόσυρτος]] (argósirtos) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of reduced intellectual capacity}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pomalý|m}}
* Dutch: [[langzaam]], [[langzame]], [[sloom]], [[slome]]
* Greek: {{t+|el|καθυστερημένος|m|tr=kathisteriménos|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|αργόστροφος|m|tr=argóstrofos|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|tardo|m}}, {{t-|it|tarda|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lacking in promptness; acting with deliberation}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανέτοιμος|m|tr=anétimos|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|behind in time}}
* Greek: [[καθυστερημένος]] (kathisteriménos) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lacking spirit; boring}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To make (something) [[run]], [[move]], etc. less [[quickly]]; to [[reduce]] the [[speed]] of.
# {{transitive}} To keep from going quickly; to [[hinder]] the [[progress]] of.
# {{intransitive}} To become slow; to [[slacken]] in [[speed]]; to [[decelerate]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|keep from going quickly}} [[delay]], [[hinder]], [[retard]]
* {{sense|become slow}} [[decelerate]], [[slacken]]

====Derived terms====
* [[slower]]
* [[slow up]]
* [[slow down]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to reduce the speed of}}
* Dutch: [[vertragen]], [[ophouden]]
* French: {{t+|fr|ralentir}}, {{t+|fr|freiner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βραδύνω|tr=vradíno|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|σταματώ|tr=stamató|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to keep from going quickly, to delay}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become slow}}
* Greek: [[αργώ]] (argó)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
'''slow'''

# Someone who is slow; a [[sluggard]].
# {{music}} A slow [[song]].

===Adverb===
'''slow'''

# {{rare}} [[slowly|Slowly]] (''usually in combinations'').

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|losw}}
* [[lows]]
* [[owls]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

[[ang:slow]]
[[ar:slow]]
[[et:slow]]
[[el:slow]]
[[es:slow]]
[[fa:slow]]
[[fr:slow]]
[[ko:slow]]
[[hy:slow]]
[[io:slow]]
[[id:slow]]
[[it:slow]]
[[kk:slow]]
[[ku:slow]]
[[lo:slow]]
[[hu:slow]]
[[nl:slow]]
[[ja:slow]]
[[no:slow]]
[[pl:slow]]
[[pt:slow]]
[[simple:slow]]
[[fi:slow]]
[[sv:slow]]
[[ta:slow]]
[[te:slow]]
[[th:slow]]
[[vi:slow]]
[[uk:slow]]
[[zh:slow]]