==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[soil]], [[stain]] or [[smudge]]. [< perhaps an alteration of 'smudge']
#* {{circa|1610}}, {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Winter's Tale|The Winter’s Tale}}'', Act I, Scene{{nbsp}}2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=winterstale&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: Why, that’s my [[bawcock]]. What, hast '''smutch’d''' thy nose?
#*: They say it is a copy out of mine.
#* '''1616''', {{w|Ben Jonson}}, ''{{w|The Devil Is an Ass|The Divell is an Asse}}'', London, 1641, Act II, Scene 6, p.{{nbsp}}26,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A46228.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Have you seene but a bright Lilly grow,
#*: Before rude hands have touch’d it?
#*: Have you mark’d but the fall of Snow,
#*: Before the soyle hath '''smutch’d''' it?
#* '''1909''', {{w|O. Henry}}, “Supply and Demand” in ''Options'', New York: Harper, p.{{nbsp}}126,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/optionsohenry00henrrich]</sup>
#*: And then in came a wee girl of seven, with dirty face and pure blue eyes and a '''smutched''' and insufficient dress.
#* '''1928''', {{w|Stephen Vincent Benét}}, ''{{w|John Brown's Body|John Brown’s Body}}'', New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, “Invocation,” p.{{nbsp}}7,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/johnbrownsbody00step]</sup>
#*: Receive them all—and should you choose to touch them
#*: With one slant ray of quick, American light,
#*: Even the dust will have no power to '''smutch''' them,
#*: Even the worst will glitter in the night.
#To eat noisily, as with one's mouth open [< perhaps an alteration of [[smatch]] or [[smooch]]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A stain, smudge or [[blot]].
#* '''1629''', John Smith, ''Essex doue, presenting the world with a few of her oliue branches,'' London: George Edwardes, “An Exposition of the Lord’s Prayer,” p.{{nbsp}}124,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A12473.0001.001]</sup>
#*: As let a man sticke a Candle to a stone wall, though the Candle do not burne through it, yet it will leaue a shrewd '''smutch''' behind it, soyling the wall, so as it will not easily be wyped out. Thus it is with tentations, though they doe not all the mischiefe they would and might doe, they will yet be sure to leaue an impression of filth and staines behinde them.
#* '''1785''', {{w|William Cowper}}, ''{{w|The Task (poem)|The Task}}'', London: J. Johnson, Book 4, p.{{nbsp}}168,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004792652.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Examine well
#*: His milk-white hand. The palm is hardly clean—
#*: But here and there an ugly '''smutch''' appears.
#*: Foh! ’twas a bribe that left it.
#* '''1849''', {{w|Robert Browning}}, “The Flight of the Duchess” in ''Poems,'' London: Chapman and Hall, Volume 2, p.{{nbsp}}390,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/poemsbro02browuoft]</sup>
#*: I could favour you with sundry touches
#*: Of the paint-'''smutches''' with which the Duchess
#*: Heightened the mellowness of her cheek’s yellowness
#* '''1903''', {{w|Henry James}}, ''[[w:The Ambassadors|The Ambassadors]]'' London: Methuen, Chapter 12, page 174,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/ambassadors00jame_2]</sup>
#*: Strether felt ''his'' character receive, for the instant, a '''smutch''' from all the wrong things he had suspected or believed.
#* '''1979''', {{w|Patrick White}}, ''{{w|The Twyborn Affair}}'', Penguin, 1981, Part 3, p.{{nbsp}}411,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/twybornaffair00whit]</sup>
#*: Looking out of her window, she was alerted by a '''smutch''' of bronze light glowering on this Anglo-Flemish landscape.

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|smut}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=chmstu|schtum}}