{{rfc|does this have a plural? The military slang sense needs a definition, not just the spelling out}}
==English==
===Forms and variants===
* '''snafu'''

===Word history===
{{Wikipedia}}
<!--Note: this is not an etymology-->
The term was given to the military training cartoon character, [[w:Private Snafu|Private Snafu]], by [[w:Frank Capra|Frank Capra]] in 1942.  The stories were written by Theodor Geisel (a.k.a. [[w:Dr. Seuss|Dr. Seuss]]).  It is not clear whether the term existed before that.

In 1941, [[w:Donald Taylor (aviator)|Don Taylor]] and his [[buddy]] Johnny Paup of the [[w:Army Signal Corps|Army Signal Corps]] were making words out of five-letter code groups. SNAFU was one of those groups.

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp}} Disputed... pronunciation can be on either syllable and the first vowel is /æ/, not /ɑː/, according to dictionary.com. Regional differences may exist, so regionality labels are needed.
* {{enPR|snä'foo͞}}
* {{IPA|/ˈsnɑːfu/}}
* {{SAMPA|/"snAfu/}}

==={{acronym}}===
'''SNAFU'''

# {{context|military slang}} [[situation]] [[normal]]: [[all]] [[fuck up|fucked up]] (''or, [[euphemistically]],'' [[foul up|fouled up]])

===Noun===
'''snafu''' (''plural'' '''[[snafus]]''')

# A ridiculously [[chaotic]] [[situation]].
# A major [[glitch]] or [[breakdown]].
#*'''2007, '''Susan Glairon, ''Paperwork SNAFU'',  The Daily Times-Call, [http://www.longmontfyi.com/Local-Story.asp?id=15646, LongmontFYI]
#*: Because of a paperwork '''snafu''', he also hasn’t been able to get his Army discharge papers and is still listed as an active-duty soldier...
{{rfex}}

===Related terms===
* [[FUBAR]]

<!----
==External links==
*[http://www.snafu.com/Snafu/SnafuStory.html/ Snafu Homepage]
*[http://www.pahrahdiseonline.com/SNAFU.htm/ SNAFU- Will the Real SNAFU stand up?]
*[http://www.tultw.com/bios/snafu.htm/ Private Snafu Bio Site]
---->


[[Category:Military slang]]

[[pl:SNAFU]]