== Sneakerhead ==

A sneakerhead by definition is a person who owns multiple pairs of gym sneakers/shoes as a form of collection and fashion.  It is often manifest by the use of shoes primarily made for sports such as tennis or basketball as normal everyday clothing.  The birth of sneakerhead culture came in the late 1980's and can be attributed to two major sources.  These contributing factors were basketball and the Hip-Hop movement in music.  The boom of signature basketball shoes in the late 1980's provided the shear numbers and multiple varieties necessary to birth such a subculture while the Hip-Hop movement gave sneakers their street value as status symbols.  The major growth in the sneakerhead industry did not occurred until after the 2000 millennium.  The subculture gained notoriety thru many of its byproducts such as magazines (Sole Collector and Sneaker Freaker), boutique stores (Undefeated and Flight Club), and largely attributed to the unconventional behaviors associated with it.  The behaviors of buying/owning multiple pairs of shoes often numbering into the hundreds and lining up or camping out for multiple days outside stores awaiting the release of shoes characterize sneakerheads.

==References==
*http://freshnessmag.com/v4/new-york-city-shop-guide/
*http://www.soleredemption.com/archives/category/sneaker-culture/
*http://www.hypebeast.com

== See also ==
*[http://freshnessmag.com/v4/]
*[http://www.nike.com/nikeskateboarding/v2/main.html]
*[http://www.hypebeast.com/]
*[http://www.flightclubny.com/index.php?fc=ny]
*[http://pickyourshoes.com/]
*[http://23isback.com/]
*[http://www.issforums.com/forums/]
*[http://niketalk.com/]
*[http://www.conceptshop.com.hk/AboutUs.jsp]
*[http://www.sneaker-websites.com/sneaker-blog/hypebeast-fashion-sneaker-website/]
{{Uncategorized|date=April 2007}}