==English==

===Conjunction===
{{en-con|head=[[so]] [[that]]}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Indicates purpose}}; [[in order that]], with the result that.
#: {{ux|en|He must die '''so that''' others might live.}}
#* '''1900''', {{w|L. Frank Baum}}, {{w|The Wonderful Wizard of Oz}}
#*: He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of the wolves came on the Tin Woodman swung his arm and chopped the wolf's head from its body, '''so that''' it immediately died.
# {{non-gloss definition|Indicates purpose}}; in such a way that, with the intent that.
#: {{ux|en|He tied a complex knot '''so that''' others would find it hard to undo.}}
#* {{RQ:RnhrtHpwd Bat|I|01}}
#*: The Bat—they called him the Bat.{{nb...}}. He'd never been in stir, the bulls had never mugged him, he didn't run with a mob, he played a lone hand, and fenced his stuff '''so that''' even the fence couldn't swear he knew his face.

====Usage notes====
“So that” is used as a subordinate clause to show purpose or to give an explanation. It is used to show an action producing an intended result or a cause producing an effect. In the format Sentence 1 “so that” Sentence 2, the first sentence is the action/cause and the second is the intended result/effect. In the format “So that” Sentence 1 , Sentence 2 the first subject-verb clause is the intended result/effect and the second is the action/cause.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|in order that}}
* [[that#Conjunction|that]] {{qualifier|conjunction}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|in order}}
* {{l|en|in order for}}
* {{l|en|in order to}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in order to}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حَتَّى}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|каб|tr=kab|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|perquè}} (+ subjunctive), {{qualifier|informal Valencian}} {{t|ca|per a que}} (+ subjunctive)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|以便|tr=yǐbiàn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|為了|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|为了|tr=wèile|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|aby}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zodat}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|por ke}} (+ jussive)
* French: {{t+|fr|pour que}} (+ subjunctive), {{t+|fr|afin que}} (+ subjunctive), {{t+|fr|afin de}} (+ infinitive)
* German: {{t+|de|sodass}}, {{t+|de|damit}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ताकि|tr=tāki}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|i riocht is go}}, {{t|ga|ar nós go}}
* Italian: {{t|it|così che}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ため|tr=...tame ni|alt=...ために|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ដើម្បី|tr=daəmbəy|sc=Khmr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|ut}} ''+ subj.''
* Latvian: {{t|lv|tāpēc}}, {{t|lv|tāpēc ka}}
* Malay:
*: Rumi: {{t+|ms|agar}}, {{t|ms|supaya}}
*: Jawi: {{t|ms|اݢر|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ms|سوڤايا|sc=Arab}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|ili}} (+ subjunctive)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|aby}}, {{t+|pl|żeby}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|para que|n}}, {{t|pt|de modo que}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|что́бы|tr=štóby}}, {{t+|ru|чтоб|tr=štob}}, {{t+|ru|да́бы}} {{qualifier|archaic or poetic}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|air chor 's gu}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|aby}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|para que}} (+ subjunctive), {{t|es|de modo que}} (+ subjunctive)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|så}}, {{t|sv|så att}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|olsem na}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|щоб|tr=ščob|sc=Cyrl}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|dat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|shotta}}

[[fr:so that]]
[[hu:so that]]
[[mg:so that]]
[[pl:so that]]
[[sv:so that]]