==English==
===Etymology===
British English; Colloquial abbreviation for , via abbreviation ; earlier  (1885), also  (1889), with  attested 1888.

Compare contemporary , from , and note vulgar connotations of analogous {{m|en||*asser}} if abbreviating on first syllable. Similarly constructed coinages from the same period include: ,  and . See .

===Pronunciation===
* 
* 
* 

===Noun===
<br />

# association football
#* 
#* 
#* 
#* 
#* 

====Usage notes====
* (meaning "soccer") is more commonly used in the UK, Ireland and everywhere in the world except the US, Canada, Australia and South Africa.

====Synonyms====
* 
* 
* 

====Derived terms====
* 

====Related terms====
* 

====Translations====
===Verb===
<br />

# To kick the football directly off the ground, without using one's hands.
#*'''1990''' Geoffrey Blainey, ''A Game of Our Own: The Origins of Australian Football'', 2003, Black Inc. Publishing, p73.
#*: The rule seems to have encouraged players to '''soccer''' the ball along the ground.
#* '''2008''', John Devaney, ''Full Points Footy′s WA Football Companion'', page 334,
#*:{{...}}West Perth seemed on the verge of victory, only to succumb by 4 points after a '''soccered''' goal from Old Easts with less than half a minute remaining.
#* '''2010''' March 27, Michael Whiting, “Lions give Fev debut to remember”, ''AFL - The official site of the Australian Football League''.
#*: Fevola showed the best and worst of his play after dropping a simple chest mark, only to regather seconds later and '''soccer''' the ball through from the most acute of angles.

===References===
<references/>

===Further reading===
* 
* 

===Anagrams===
* 

[[Category:en:Football (soccer)]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* 

===Noun===
<br />

# 

====Synonyms====
* 

===See also===
* 
* 

===Anagrams===
*