==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/sɔɪl/}}, {{SAMPA|/sOIl/}}
*{{audio|en-us-soil.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|ɔɪl}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A mixture of [[sand]] and [[organic]] material, used to support plant growth.
# {{uncountable}} The unconsolidated mineral or organic material on the immediate surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land plants.
# {{uncountable}} The unconsolidated mineral or organic matter on the surface of the earth that has been subjected to and shows effects of genetic and environmental factors of: climate (including water and temperature effects), and macro- and microorganisms, conditioned by relief, acting on parent material over a period of time. A product-soil differs from the material from which it is derived in many physical, chemical, biological, and morphological properties and characteristics.
# {{uncountable|euphemistic}} Faeces or urine etc. when found on clothes.
# {{countable}} In medical terms, a bag containing soiled items.
# {{euphemism}} Country or territory.
#:''The refugees returned to their native '''soil'''.''

====Synonyms====
*{{sense|senses 1 to 3}} [[dirt]], [[earth]]
*{{sense|faeces or urine etc.}} [[dirt]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mixture of sand and organic material}}
*Chinese: [[泥土]] (nítǔ)
*Czech: [[půda]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[jord]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[grond]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[multa]]
*French: [[sol]] {{m}}
*German: [[Boden]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[föld]], [[talaj]]
*Indonesian: [[tanah]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[suolo]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[土]] (つち, tsuchi)
*[[Malayalam]]: [[മണ്ണ്]] (maNNu)
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[земля]] (z'eml'á) {{f}}, [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[suelo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mineral or organic material serving as a natural medium for the growth of land plants}}
*Czech: [[půda]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[jord]] {{c}}, [[muldjord]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[aarde]], [[grond]]
*Finnish: [[maa]]
*Hungarian: [[táptalaj]]
*Italian: [[terreno]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}, [[terra]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unconsolidated mineral or organic material on the immediate surface of the earth}}
*Danish: [[jord]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[aarde]], [[grond]]
*Finnish: [[maa]]
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|faeces or urine etc.}}
*Finnish: [[lika]], [[sonta]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Malayalam]]: [[മലമൂത്രം]] (malamoothram)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bag containing soiled items}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|country or territory}}
*Danish: [[grund]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[grond]]
*Finnish: [[maaperä]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[земля]] (z'eml'á) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}, [[mark#Swedish|mark]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[تربة]]}} {{unicode|(túrba)}} {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[土]] (tǔ)
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[terre]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Erde]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[föld]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[sulo]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[terra]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[흙]] (heuk)
*{{ttbc|Navajo}}: [[łeezh]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[خاک]]}} (xak)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[ziemia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Rohingya}}: [[meçi]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[tierra]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
*[[alluvium]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make [[dirt]]y.
# {{reflexive}} To dirty one's clothing by accidentally defecating while clothed.
#''reflexively: to '''soil''' oneself''
# To make invalid, to ruin.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make dirty}}
*Danish: [[tilsøle]], [[svine]] til, [[besudle]]
*Dutch: [[bevuilen]]
*Finnish: [[liata]]
*French: [[salir]]
*Hebrew: [[ללכלך]] (li-likhlakh)
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[sporcare]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خاکی کردن]]}} (xâki kardan)
*Swedish: [[skita ner]], [[smutsa ner]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make invalid, to ruin}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خاکی کردن]]}} (xâki kardan)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[souiller]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[soilless]]
*[[soil pipe]]
*[[solum]]
*[[topsoil]]

----

==Basque==

===Adjective===
{{infl|eu|adjective}}

# [[bald]]

----

==Rohingya==

===Etymology===
From {{Beng.|cit}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|cit|noun}}

# [[rice]]

[[zh-min-nan:soil]]
[[de:soil]]
[[fr:soil]]
[[io:soil]]
[[id:soil]]
[[it:soil]]
[[hu:soil]]
[[ja:soil]]
[[pl:soil]]
[[ru:soil]]
[[fi:soil]]
[[ta:soil]]
[[te:soil]]
[[vi:soil]]
[[zh:soil]]