{{see|Appendix:Variations of "sol"}}
==English==

{{rfc|With which word (which etymology) does this belong?}}

===Pronunciation===
* (''[[RP]]''): {{IPA|/sɒl/}}, {{SAMPA|/sQl/}}
* (''US''): {{enPR|sōl}}, {{IPA|/soʊl/}}, {{SAMPA|/s@Ul/}}

====Homophones====
* (''for US pronunciation''): [[soul]], [[sole]]

===Etymology 1===
From {{L.}} ''[[solve|sol(ve)]]'' in the hymn for St. John the Baptist all note names were take from.

====Alternative spellings====
* [[so]]
* [[soh]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/soʊl/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{music}} The fifth step in the [[solfège]] scale of C (Ut), preceded by [[fa]] and followed by [[la]].

===Etymology 2===
From {{L.}} ''[[sol#Latin|sol]]'' (sun).

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[Sun]].
# {{astronomy}} A [[solar day]] on [[Mars]] (equivalent to 24 hours, 39 minutes, 35 seconds).
# {{obsolete|alchemy}} [[gold|Gold]].

===Etymology 3===
From {{Sp.}} ''[[sol#Spanish|sol]]'' 'sun', itself from {{L.}} sol 'sun'.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s}}

# A Spanish-American gold or silver [[coin]], now the main currency unit of [[Peru]] ''(also '''new sol''')'', or a coin of this value.
#: ''Three days after, the Great Sun, his brother, sent me another deer-skin of the same oil, to the quantity of forty pints. The commonest sort sold this year at twenty '''sols''' a pint, and I was sure mine was not of the worst kind.'' — ''History of Louisiana'', M. Le Page Du Pratz

===Etymology 4===
An abbreviation of ''[[solution]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|physical|_|chemistry}} A type of [[colloid]] in which a [[solid]] is [[dispersed]] in a [[liquid]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|(''physical chemistry'') a type of colloid}}
* Bosnian: [[sol#Bosnian|sol]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[сол#Serbian|сол]]
*: Roman: [[sol#Serbian|sol]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 5===
From {{OF.}} ''sol'' (now ''[[sou]]''), from the {{L.}} ''[[solidus]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s}}

# An old [[French]] [[coin]] consisting of 12 [[denier]]s.

===See also===
* [[yestersol]]

[[Category:Coins]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Bosnian==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[sol#English|sol]] (''chemistry'')
# [[salt]]

[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Catalan==
<!--(Four different etymologies, all from Latin)-->

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|f=sola|mpl=sols|fpl=soles}}

# [[alone]]
# [[unique]]

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m|sols}}

# the [[Sun]]
# [[sol#English|sol]] (''coin'')
# [[sol#English|sol]] (''musical step'')

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[left]].

====Declension====
{{crh-latin-noun|nıñ|ğa|nı|da|dan}}

===Adjective===
'''sol'''

# [[left]].

===References===
{{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

[[Category:Crimean Tatar adjectives]]
[[Category:Crimean Tatar nouns]]

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
Common Slavic.

===Noun===
{{hr-noun|g=f|soli}}

# [[salt]]

====Declension====
{{hr-decl-noun
|sol|soli
|soli|soli
|soli|solima
|sol|soli
|soli|soli
|soli|solima
|solju / soli|solima
}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/sɔl/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{L.}} {{term|solve|sol(ve)|lang=la}} in the hymn for St. John the Baptist all note names were take from.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun2|f|len|letje}}

# {{music|lang=nl}} [[sol#English|sol]], the fifth step in the [[solfège]] scale of C, preceded by [[fa]] and followed by [[la]].

===Etymology 2===
Conjugated form of {{term|lang=nl|sollen}}.

====Verb====
'''sol'''

# {{first person singular present tense and imperative of|sollen}}

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]
[[Category:Dutch verb forms]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/soʊl/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{L.}} [[solum]] 'soil, ground, floor'

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|s}} {{m}}

# [[soil]], [[earth]]
# [[ground]]
# [[floor]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{L.}} ''[[solve|sol(ve)]]'' in the [[hymn]] for St. John the Baptist all note names were take from.

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|s}} {{m}}

# {{music|lang=fr}} [[sol#English|sol]], the fifth step in the [[solfège]] scale of C, preceded by [[fa]] and followed by [[la]].

===Etymology 3===
From {{Sp.}} ''[[sol#Spanish|sol]]'' 'sun', itself from {{L.}}.

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|s}} {{m}}

# A Spanish-American gold or silver [[coin]], now the main currency unit of [[Peru]] ''(also '''new sol''')'', or a coin of this value.

===Etymology 4===
From {{L.}} ''[[solidus]]'', a Roman coin

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|s}} {{m}}

# {{archaic|lang=fr}} [[sou]], the feudal era coin.

[[Category:French nouns]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[solve|sol(ve)]]'' in the [[hymn]] for St. John the Baptist all note names were take from.

====Noun====
'''sol''' {{m}}

# {{music|lang=fr}} [[sol#English|sol]], the fifth step in the [[solfège]] scale of C, preceded by [[fa]] and followed by [[la]].

===See also===
* [[Sol]]

[[Category:German nouns]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[sole]] (of the foot)

[[Category:Indonesian nouns]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[sun]]

===Adjective===
'''sol'''

# [[only]]
# [[alone]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|Sol (nota)|lang=it}}
'''sol''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|sol]] (musical note)
# [[G]] (musical note and key)
# {{apocopic form of|sole|lang=Italian}}

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''sol''' {{f}}

# [[shoe]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]
[[Category:Kurdish nouns]]

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Indo-European|sóh₂wl̥|lang=la}}. Cognate with Old Church Slavonic {{term|sc=Cyrl|слъньцє|tr=slŭnĭce|lang=cu}}, Ancient Greek {{term|ἥλιος|sc=polytonic|tr=hēlios|lang=grc}}, Sanskrit {{term|sc=Deva|सूर|tr=sūra|lang=sa}}.

===Noun===
{{la-noun|sōl|solis|sōlis|m|third}}

# [[sun]]

====Declension====
{{la-decl-3rd|sol|sōl|sol|sōl}}

====Descendants====
{{top2}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{l|ca|sol}}
* English: {{l|en|solar}}
* French: {{l|fr|soleil}}
* Icelandic: {{l|is|sól}}
* Interlingua: {{l|ia|sol}}
* Italian: {{l|it|sole}}
{{mid2}}
* Portuguese: {{l|pt|sol}}
* Romanian: {{l|ro|soare}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|sol}}
* Swedish: {{l|sv|sol}}
* Volapük: {{l|vo|sol}}
{{bottom2}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
'''sol''' {{m}}

# [[sun]]
# [[sol#English|sol]] (''musical note'')

[[Category:Portuguese nouns]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{Sla.|ro}} ''[[solŭ]]'', compare Slovene ''[[#Slovene|sel]]''.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|gend=m|pl=soli}}

# [[messenger]]
# [[envoy]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-m}}

----

==Serbian==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[sol#English|sol]] (''chemistry'')

====Cyrillic spelling====
* [[сол#Serbian|сол]]

[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

----

==Slovene==
{{wikipedia|lang=sl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|sl|noun|g=f}}

# [[salt]] (common substance)

{{tbot entry|Slovene|salt|2008|April|sl}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''sol''' {{m}}

# [[sun]]

====Derived terms====
* [[solar]]
* [[soleado]]

[[Category:Spanish nouns]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-sol.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''sol''' {{c}}
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

# [[sun]]
# {{context|by similarity|lang=sv}} a [[star]], especially when one considers things in its surroundings.

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[left]]

====Antonyms====
* [[sağ]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
'''sol'''

# [[sun]]

[[af:sol]]
[[zh-min-nan:sol]]
[[ca:sol]]
[[da:sol]]
[[de:sol]]
[[et:sol]]
[[el:sol]]
[[es:sol]]
[[eo:sol]]
[[eu:sol]]
[[fr:sol]]
[[gl:sol]]
[[ko:sol]]
[[hy:sol]]
[[io:sol]]
[[id:sol]]
[[ie:sol]]
[[it:sol]]
[[rw:sol]]
[[sw:sol]]
[[ku:sol]]
[[la:sol]]
[[lt:sol]]
[[hu:sol]]
[[nl:sol]]
[[ja:sol]]
[[no:sol]]
[[oc:sol]]
[[pl:sol]]
[[pt:sol]]
[[ro:sol]]
[[ru:sol]]
[[sl:sol]]
[[fi:sol]]
[[sv:sol]]
[[ta:sol]]
[[te:sol]]
[[th:sol]]
[[vi:sol]]
[[tr:sol]]
[[uk:sol]]
[[vo:sol]]
[[zh:sol]]