==English==
{{rfi}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|soverain|lang=la}} (whence also modern French {{term|souverain|lang=fr}}), from {{etyl|VL.|en}} root *''superānus'' (cf. Italian ''[[sovrano]]'', Spanish ''[[soberano]]'') from Latin {{term|super||above|lang=la}}. Spelling influenced by folk-etymology association with reign. See also ''[[suzerain]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈsɒv.rɪn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-sovereign.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Exercising power of [[rule]].
#: '''''sovereign''' nation''
# Exceptional in [[quality]].
# {{context|now|_|rare|lang=en}} Extremely [[potent]] or effective (of a medicine, remedy etc.).
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}}'', III.v:
#*: The '''soueraigne''' weede betwixt two marbles plaine / She pownded small, and did in peeces bruze, / And then atweene her lilly handes twaine, / Into his wound the iuyce thereof did scruze {{...}}
#* {{rfdate}} Dryden
#*: a '''sovereign''' remedy
#* {{rfdate}} South
#*: Such a '''sovereign''' influence has this passion upon the regulation of the lives and actions of men.
# Having supreme, [[ultimate]] power.
# Princely; royal.
#* {{rfdate}} Shakespeare
#*: most '''sovereign''' name
# Predominant; greatest; utmost; paramount.
#* {{rfdate}} Hooker
#*: We acknowledge him [God] our '''sovereign''' good.

====Derived terms====
* [[sovereignly]]

====Synonyms====
* [[autonomous]]
* [[supreme]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exercising power of rule}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|sobirà}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|自主|tr=zìzhǔ de|alt=自主的|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|獨立|alt=獨立的|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|独立|tr=dúlì de|alt=独立的|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|svrchovaný}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|soeverein}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|suverena}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|itsenäinen}}, {{t+|fi|suvereeni}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souverain}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|soberano}}
* German: {{t+|de|souverän}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|berdaulat}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|soveran}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ardcheannasach}}, {{t|ga|ceannasach}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sovrano}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|独立|tr=どくりつした, dokuritsu-shita|alt=独立した}}, {{t|ja|自立|tr=じりつした, jiritsu-shita|alt=自立した}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|суверен|m|tr=súveren|sc=Cyrl}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|ard-reeoil}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|sobeiran}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|soberano}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|suveran}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|суверенный|tr=suverénnyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|soberano}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|självständig}}, {{t+|sv|suverän}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|సార్వభౌమ|tr=saarvabhauma|sc=Telu}}, {{t|te|సర్వసత్తాక|tr=sarvasattaaka|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|egemen}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|soveränik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|exceptional in quality}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erinomainen}}, {{t+|fi|suvereeni}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|卓越した|tr=takuetsu shita}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|suveran|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|suverän}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[monarch]]; the [[ruler]] of a [[country]].
#* Jefferson
#*: No question is to be made but that the bed of the Mississippi belongs to the '''sovereign''', that is, to the nation.
# One who is not a [[subject]] to a ruler or nation.
# A [[gold coin]] formerly used in the [[United Kingdom]].
# A very large [[champagne]] [[bottle]] with the [[capacity]] of about 25 [[liter]]s, equivalent to 33⅓ [[standard]] bottles.
# Any [[butterfly]] of the [[tribe]] ''{{taxlink|Nymphalini|tribe|noshow=1}}, or [[genus]] {{taxlink|Basilarchia|genus|noshow=1}}, as the [[ursula]] and the [[viceroy]].

====Synonyms====
* [[king]]
* [[monarch]]
* [[queen]]

====Derived terms====
* [[sovereignty]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|monarch}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|батша|tr=batša|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|sobirà|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|君主|tr=jūnzhǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vládce|m}}, {{t|cs|panovník|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vorst|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|suvereno}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|monarkki}}, {{t+|fi|hallitsija}}, {{t|fi|valtias}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souverain|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|soberano|m}}, {{t|gl|soberana|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Souverän}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|uralkodó}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|rejo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|penguasa}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|soverano}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sovrano}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|君主|tr=くんしゅ, kunshu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|владетел|m|tr=vládetel|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mk|суверен|m|tr=súveren|sc=Cyrl}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|ard-ree|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|suserano|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|суверен|m|tr=suverén|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|властитель|m|tr=vlastítel'|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|монарх|m|tr=monárx|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|soberano}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|regent|c}}, {{t+|sv|monark}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|soveran}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who is not a subject to a ruler or nation}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souverain|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|coin}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|sobirà|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[punta|punnan]] [[kultaraha]]}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souverain|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|соверин|m|tr=sóverin|sc=Cyrl}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|punt airhey|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|соверен|m|tr=sóveren|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|very large champagne bottle}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souverain|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[half sovereign]]/[[half-sovereign]]

[[Category:English words not following the I before E except after C rule]]
[[Category:en:Monarchy]]
[[Category:en:Money]]

[[cs:sovereign]]
[[et:sovereign]]
[[el:sovereign]]
[[es:sovereign]]
[[eo:sovereign]]
[[fa:sovereign]]
[[fr:sovereign]]
[[ko:sovereign]]
[[hy:sovereign]]
[[io:sovereign]]
[[it:sovereign]]
[[kn:sovereign]]
[[ku:sovereign]]
[[li:sovereign]]
[[hu:sovereign]]
[[mg:sovereign]]
[[ml:sovereign]]
[[my:sovereign]]
[[ja:sovereign]]
[[pl:sovereign]]
[[pt:sovereign]]
[[ru:sovereign]]
[[simple:sovereign]]
[[sh:sovereign]]
[[fi:sovereign]]
[[sv:sovereign]]
[[ta:sovereign]]
[[te:sovereign]]
[[chr:sovereign]]
[[uk:sovereign]]
[[vi:sovereign]]
[[zh:sovereign]]