{{also|Spang|spång}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|en|æŋ}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|spang||a small piece of ornamental metal; spangle; small ornament; a bowl or cup}}, likely from {{der|en|dum|spange||buckle, clasp}} or {{der|en|ang|spang||buckle, clasp}}.

{{etystub|en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A shiny [[ornament]] or object; a [[spangle]]
#* Edmund Spenser
#*: With glittering '''spangs''' that did like stars appear.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|spangle}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To set with bright points: star or spangle.
# To [[hitch]]; [[fasten]].

===Etymology 2===
{{onom|en}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|of a flying object such as a bullet}} To strike or ricochet with a loud report
#* {{RQ:Crane Red Badge of Courage|18|173|Occasional bullets buzzed in the air and '''spanged''' into tree trunks.}}
#* '''1918''', {{w|Zane Grey}}, ''The U.P. Trail''
#*: How clear, sweet, '''spanging''' the hammer blows!

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{lb|en|dated}} [[suddenly|Suddenly]]; [[slap]], [[smack]].
#* '''1936''', Djuna Barnes, ''Nightwood'', Faber & Faber 2007, p. 22:
#*: And I didn't stop until I found myself '''spang''' in the middle of the Musée de Cluny, clutching the rack.

===Etymology 3===
Probably from {{m|en|spring}} {{qualifier|verb}} or {{m|en|spank}} {{qualifier|verb}} {{rfv-etym|en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|dialect|UK|Scotland}} To [[leap]]; [[spring]].
#* Ramsay
#*: But when they '''spang''' o'er reason's fence, / We smart for't at our own expense.
# {{lb|en|transitive|dialect|UK|Scotland}} To cause to [[spring]]; set forcibly in motion; throw with violence.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Scotland}} A [[bound]] or [[spring]]; a [[leap]].
#: {{rfquotek|en|Sir Walter Scott}}

===Etymology 4===
See {{m|en|span}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Scotland}} A [[span]].

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=agnps|Pangs|pangs}}

----

==Westrobothnian==
===Etymology===
From Old Norse [[spǫng]], cf. Swedish [[spång]]. See also German [[Spange]] (clasp). Probably related to [[span]] from Proto-Germanic [[Reconstruction:Proto-Germanic/spannaną|*spannaną]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|gmq-bot|[spɑ́ŋː]|[spɒ́ŋː]}} {{gmq-bot-pronu-note}}
*: {{rhymes|gmq-bot|áŋɡ}}

===Noun===
{{head|gmq-bot|noun|definite singular|spanga|plural|spinger|definite plural|spingren|g=f}}

# a simple one-man [[bridge]], [[log]] [[bridge]], [[footbridge]]<ref>[[w:sv:Ernst Rietz|Rietz, Johan Ernst]], “[http://runeberg.org/dialektl/0684.html spang]”, in ''Svenskt dialektlexikon: ordbok öfver svenska allmogespråket'' [''Swedish dialectal lexicon: a dictionary for the Swedish lects''] (in Swedish), 1962 edition, Lund: C. W. K. Gleerups Förlag, published 1862–1867, page 654</ref>

===References===
<references/>