==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[sporting]] [[activity]] which has a relatively high ratio of [[watcher]]s to [[direct]] [[participant]]s.
#* '''1953''', "[https://web.archive.org/web/20081222111618/http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,858317,00.html Yonkers Doodle]," ''Time'', 5 Oct.:
#*: Today harness racing is a $430 million-a-year business, the fastest-growing '''spectator sport''' in the U.S.
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} Something, especially a process or activity, which is a [[popular]] object of [[observation]]; an activity which a person [[prefer]]s to watch rather than to participate in.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1977|author=[[w:Muriel Clara Bradbrook|Muriel Clara Bradbrook]]|title=My Cambridge|isbn=9780903895842|pageurl=http://books.google.ca/books?id=SzCfAAAAMAAJ&q=%22strictly+a+spectator+sport%22&dq=%22strictly+a+spectator+sport%22&lr=&as_drrb_is=q&as_minm_is=0&as_miny_is=&as_maxm_is=0&as_maxy_is=&as_brr=0&client=firefox-a|page=120
|passage=Politics for me was strictly a '''spectator sport'''.}}
#* '''2008''', David Randall, "[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/britney-spears-onewoman-disaster-zone-leaves-hospital-after-two-days-768500.html Britney Spears, one-woman disaster zone, leaves hospital after two days]," ''The Independent'' (UK), 6 Jan. (retrieved 31 Aug. 2009):
#*: The singer Britney Spears, whose descent into a personal abyss has become a ghoulish worldwide '''spectator sport''', yesterday left a Los Angeles hospital.
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} An activity which [[consist]]s of watching or observing.
#* '''2007''', Brian Dakss, "[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2007/06/01/earlyshow/main2874584.shtml Expert Offers Basics On What Some Call Nation's No. 1 '''Spectator Sport''']," ''CBS News'', 1 June (retrieved 31 Aug. 2009):
#*: Thompson, who's the digest's publisher, says bird watching is a hobby, a pastime and a '''spectator sport''' that can be enjoyed anywhere.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2008|author=Andrew Savva|title=Trisomy 13|isbn=9781411678132|pageurl=http://books.google.ca/books?id=vflYhHbnBNEC&pg=RA1-PA112&dq=%22only+a+spectator+sport%22&lr=&as_drrb_is=b&as_minm_is=0&as_miny_is=2001&as_maxm_is=0&as_maxy_is=2009&as_brr=0&client=firefox-a#v=onepage&q=%22only%20a%20spectator%20sport%22&f=false|page=112
|passage=Rubbernecking is only a '''spectator sport'''.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sporting activity with high number of spectators}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|yleisöurheilu}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|åskådarsport|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{c|en|Sports}}