==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=speed (disambiguation)|speed}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/spiːd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-speed.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːd|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
{{PIE root|en|speh₁}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|spede||prosperity, good luck, quickness, success|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|spēd||luck, prosperity, success}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*spōdiz||prosperity, success}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*spōaną||to prosper, succeed, be happy}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*speh₁-||to prosper, turn out well}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|spede|lang=sco}}, {{term|speid||success, quickness, speed|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|spoed||haste; speed|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|spood||haste, speed|lang=nds}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Sput||progress, acceleration, haste|lang=de}}. Related also to {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|spōwan||to be successful, succeed}}, Albanian {{term|shpejt||to speed, to hurry|lang=sq}} and Russian {{term|спешить||tr=sp'éšit'|to hurry|lang=ru}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{m|la|spēs||hope, expectation}}, {{m|la|spērō||hope|pos=verb}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# the state of moving quickly or the capacity for rapid motion; [[rapidity]]
#: ''How does Usain Bolt run at that '''speed'''?''
# the rate of motion or action, specifically {{context|mathematics|lang=en}}/{{context|physics|lang=en}} the magnitude of the [[velocity]]; the rate [[distance]] is traversed in a given [[time]]
# {{context|photography|lang=en}} the sensitivity to light of [[film]], [[plates]] or [[sensor]].
# {{context|photography|lang=en}} the duration of exposure, the time during which a camera shutter is open.
# {{context|photography|lang=en}} the largest size of the lens opening at which a lens can be used.
# {{context|photography|lang=en}} the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of a photographic objective.
# {{context|slang|uncountable|lang=en}} any [[amphetamine]] drug used as a [[stimulant]], especially illegally, especially [[methamphetamine]]
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} luck, success, prosperity
#* Bible, Genesis xxiv. 12
#*: O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good '''speed''' this day.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[velocity]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
* [[lightspeed]]
* [[speed bump]]
* [[speed chess]]
* [[speed camera]]
* [[speed dating]]
* [[speed demon]]
* [[speed dial]]
* [[speed freak]]
* [[speedful]]
* [[speed hump]]
{{mid2}}
* [[speed limit]]
* [[speed of light]]
* [[speed of sound]]
* [[speedometer]]
* [[speed queen]]
* [[speedread]]
* [[speedrun]]
* [[speed skating]]
* [[speedway]]
* [[speedy]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|rapidity}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سرعة|f|tr=súrʿa}}
* Aragonese: {{t|an|rapideza|f}}, {{t|an|velocidat|f}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արագություն|tr=aragut’yun}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|rapidez|f}}, {{t|ast|velocidá|f}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|abaila}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|ско́расць|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бързина|f|tr=bǎrziná}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|rapidesa|f}}, {{t+|ca|velocitat|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|速度|tr=sùdù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rychlost|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hastighed}}, {{t|da|hurtighed}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snelheid|f}}, {{t|nl|vlugheid|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|rapideco}}
* Extremaduran: {{t|ext|velociá|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nopeus}}, {{t+|fi|vauhti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vitesse|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|rapidez|f}}, {{t+|gl|velocidade|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|სიჩქარე|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|სისწრაფე|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schnelligkeit|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ταχύτητα|f|tr=taxítita|sc=Grek}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|vitès}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מהירות|f}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|गति|f|tr=gati|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyorsaság}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|velocità|f}}, {{t|it|celerità|f}} {{qualifier|rare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|速度|tr=[[そくど]], sokudo}}, {{t|ja|速さ|tr=hayasa|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|속도|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|速度|sc=Kore}})
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|брзина|f|tr=b'rzina|sc=Cyrl}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|хурд|tr=hurd|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|fart|m|f}}, {{t+|nb|hastighet|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|hastigheit|f}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|ofost|f}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سرعت|tr=sor'at|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|szybkość|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|velocidade|f}}, {{t+|pt|rapidez|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|viteză|f}}, {{t+|ro|rapiditate|f}}, {{t+|ro|iuțeală|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ско́рость|f|tr=skórostʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cabhag|f}}, {{t|gd|deann|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|hitrost|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|rapidez|f}}, {{t+|es|velocidad|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kasi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fart|c}}, {{t+|sv|hastighet|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|bilis}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|వడి|tr=vaDi}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tốc độ}} ({{t|vi|速度}})
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|ʻǁna̰ã}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rate of motion}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سرعة|f|tr=súrʿa}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|արագություն|tr=aragut’yun}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|abiadura}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|ско́расць|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|скорост|f|tr=skórost}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|速度|tr=sùdù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|rychlost|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hastighed}}, {{t+|da|fart}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snelheid|f}}, {{t|nl|gezwindheid|f}}, {{t+|nl|vaart|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|rapideco}}, {{t|eo|rapido}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|kiirus}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vauhti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vitesse|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|სიჩქარე|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|სისწრაფე|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschwindigkeit|f}}, {{t+|de|Schnelligkeit|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ταχύτητα|f|tr=taxítita|sc=Grek}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|vitès}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מהירות|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sebesség}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|velocità|f}}, {{t|it|celerità|f}} (rare)
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|速度|tr=[[そくど]], sokudo}}, {{t+|ja|速い|tr=はやさ, hayasa|alt=速さ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|속도|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|速度|sc=Kore}}), {{t|ko|빠르기|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: {{t|la|celeritas}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|брзина|f|tr=b'rzina|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|hastighet|m|f}}, {{t+|no|fart|m|f}}, {{t+|no|hurtighet|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|hastigheit|f}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سرعت|tr=sor'at|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|szybkość|f}}, {{t+|pl|prędkość|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|velocidade|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|viteză|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скорость|f|tr=skórostʹ}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|брзина|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|brzina|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|hitrost|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|velocidad|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kasi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hastighet|c}}, {{t+|sv|fart|c}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|వడి|tr=vaDi}} (scientific usage), {{t+|te|వేగము|tr=vaegamu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tốc độ}} ({{t|vi|速度}})
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|photographic sensitivity to light}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|valoherkkyys}}
* German: {{t|de|Filmempfindlichkeit|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hastighet|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|fotosensibilitate}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|светочувствительность|f|tr=svetočustvítelʹnostʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|exposure time}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выдержка|f|tr=viderzhka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lens opening size}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|focal ratio}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|относительное отверстие|n|tr=otnositelnoye otverstiye|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: methamphetamine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|speed}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vauhti}}, {{t+|fi|piri}}, {{t+|fi|spiidi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|speed|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Speed|n}}, {{t|de|Pep|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|спид|m|tr=spid|sc=Cyrl}}
* Polish: {{qualifier|slang}} {{t|pl|spid|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|meta|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kasi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tjack|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|[[luck]], [[success]], [[prosperity]]}}

=====See also=====
Units for measuring ''speed'': [[metre]]s/[[meter]]s per second, [[m/s]], [[kilometre]]s/[[kilometer]]s per [[hour]], [[km/h]] {{a|metric}}; [[knot]], [[kt]], [[kn]] {{a|nautical}}; [[foot|feet]] per [[second]], [[ft/s]], [[ft/sec]] and [[fps]], [[mile]]s per [[hour]], [[mph]] {{a|imperial and U.S. customary}}; [[mach]] {{a|aeronautical}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|speden|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|spēdan||to speed, prosper, succeed, have success}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*spōdijanan||to succeed}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|spede|lang=sco}}, {{term|speid||to meet with success, assist, promote, accomplish, speed|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|spoeden||to hurry, rush|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|spoden|lang=nds}}, {{term|spöden||to hasten, speed|lang=nds}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|sputen|lang=de}}, {{term|spuden||to speed|lang=de}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|speeds|speeding|sped|past_qual=mostly US|past2=speeded|past2_qual=mostly UK}}

#{{label|en|intransitive|archaic}} To [[succeed]]; to [[prosper]], be lucky.
#*{{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|4.1|2|I|1}}:
#*:And yf I maye fynde suche a knyghte that hath all these vertues / he may drawe oute this swerd oute of the shethe / for I haue ben at kyng Ryons / it was told me ther were passyng good knyghtes / and he and alle his knyghtes haue assayed it and none can '''spede'''
#*{{RQ:RBrtn AntmyMlncly}}, I.2.4.vii:
#*: Aristotle must find out the motion of Euripus; Pliny must needs see Vesuvius; but how '''sped''' they? One loseth goods, another his life.
#*'''18<sup>th</sup>c.''', {{w|Oliver Goldsmith}}, ''Introductory to Switzerland''
#*:At night returning, every labor '''sped''', / He sits him down the monarch of a shed: / Smiles by his cheerful fire, and round surveys, / His children’s looks, that brighten at the blaze;
#{{label|en|transitive|archaic}} To [[help]] someone, to give them fortune; to aid or favour.
#:{{ux|en|God '''speed''', until we meet again.}}
#*{{w|William Shakespeare}} (c.1564–1616)
#*:Fortune '''speed''' us!
#*{{w|John Dryden}} (1631-1700)
#*:with rising gales that '''speed''' their happy flight
#{{label|en|intransitive}} To go [[fast]].
#:{{ux|en|The Ferrari was '''speeding''' along the road.}}
#*{{w|William Shakespeare}} (c.1564–1616)
#*:I have '''speeded''' hither with the very extremest inch of possibility.
#*{{quote-book|year=1963|author={{w|Margery Allingham}}|title={{w|The China Governess}}
|chapter=10|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL2004261W
|passage=With a little manœuvring they contrived to meet on the doorstep which was […] in a boiling stream of passers-by, hurrying business people '''speeding''' past in a flurry of fumes and dust in the bright haze.}}
#{{label|en|intransitive}} To exceed the [[speed limit]].
#:{{ux|en|Why do you '''speed''' when the road is so icy?}}
#{{label|en|transitive}} To increase the rate at which something occurs.
#*'''1982''', Carole Offir & Carole Wade, ''Human sexuality,'' Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, p.454:
#*:It is possible that the uterine contractions '''speed''' the sperm along.
#*'''2004''', James M. Cypher & James L. Dietz, ''The process of economic development,'' Routledge, p.359:
#*:Such interventions can help to '''speed''' the process of reducing CBRs and help countries pass through the demographic transition threshold more quickly{{nb...}}.
#{{label|en|intransitive|slang}} To be under the [[influence]] of stimulant drugs, especially amphetamines.
#{{label|en|obsolete}} To be [[expedient]].
#:{{rfquotek|Wyclif Bible (2 Corinthians xii. 1.)}}
#{{label|en|archaic}} To hurry to destruction; to put an end to; to ruin.
#*{{w|William Shakespeare}} (c.1564–1616)
#*:'''sped''' with spavins
#*{{w|Alexander Pope}} (1688-1744)
#*:A dire dilemma! either way I'm '''sped'''. / If foes, they write, if friends, they read, me dead.
#{{label|en|archaic}} To wish success or good fortune to, in any undertaking, especially in setting out upon a journey.
#*{{w|Alexander Pope}} (1688-1744)
#*:Welcome the coming, '''speed''' the parting guest.
#To cause to make haste; to dispatch with celerity; to drive at full speed; hence, to hasten; to hurry.
#*{{w|Edward Fairfax}} (c.1580-1635)
#*:He '''sped''' him thence home to his habitation.
#To hasten to a conclusion; to expedite.
#*{{w|John Ayliffe}} (1676-1732)
#*:Judicial acts{{...}}are '''sped''' in open court at the instance of one or both of the parties.

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Usage notes=====
* The ''Cambridge Guide to English Usage'' indicates that ''sped'' is for objects in motion ''(the race car sped)'' while ''speeded'' is used for activities or processes, but notes that the British English convention does not hold in American English.
* ''Garner's Modern American Usage'' (2009) indicates that ''speeded'' is incorrect, except in the phrasal verb, {{term|speed up}}. Most American usage of ''speeded'' conforms to this.
* ''Sped'' is about six times more common in American English ([[COCA]]) than ''speeded''. ''Sped'' is twice as common in UK English ([[BNC]]).

=====Derived terms=====
* [[speed up]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to go fast}}
* Danish: {{t|da|køre hurtigt}}
* Finnish: [[ajaa]] ([[liian]]) [[nopea|nopeasti]]
* French: {{t+|fr|foncer}}
* German: {{t+|de|rasen}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|भगाना|tr=bhagānā|sc=Deva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|greitis}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|råkjøre}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acelerar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kasi}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|köra fort}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|mabilis}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to exceed speed limit}}
* Danish: {{t|da|køre for hurtigt}}
* Finnish: [[ajaa]] [[ylinopeus|ylinopeutta]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|råkjøre}}, {{t|no|kjøre over fartsgrensen}}, {{t+|no|flå}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kasi}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|köra för fort}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!--added {{ttbc}}s here.-->
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|snellen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|laju|alt=melaju}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[deeps#English|deeps]], [[pedes#English|pedes]], [[spede#English|spede]]

[[Category:en:Mechanics]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[az:speed]]
[[zh-min-nan:speed]]
[[ca:speed]]
[[cs:speed]]
[[cy:speed]]
[[da:speed]]
[[de:speed]]
[[et:speed]]
[[el:speed]]
[[es:speed]]
[[eo:speed]]
[[eu:speed]]
[[fa:speed]]
[[fr:speed]]
[[ko:speed]]
[[hy:speed]]
[[hr:speed]]
[[io:speed]]
[[id:speed]]
[[zu:speed]]
[[it:speed]]
[[kn:speed]]
[[kk:speed]]
[[sw:speed]]
[[ku:speed]]
[[lo:speed]]
[[lv:speed]]
[[li:speed]]
[[hu:speed]]
[[mg:speed]]
[[ml:speed]]
[[my:speed]]
[[nl:speed]]
[[ja:speed]]
[[no:speed]]
[[pl:speed]]
[[pt:speed]]
[[ru:speed]]
[[si:speed]]
[[simple:speed]]
[[sh:speed]]
[[fi:speed]]
[[sv:speed]]
[[tl:speed]]
[[ta:speed]]
[[te:speed]]
[[th:speed]]
[[chr:speed]]
[[tr:speed]]
[[uk:speed]]
[[vi:speed]]
[[zh:speed]]