==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Canada|GenAm|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈspɛlɪŋ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛlɪŋ|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-spelling.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|spell|ing|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
1400s, from {{affix|en|spell|pos1=verb|-ing}}.

===Verb===
{{head|en|present participle}}

# {{present participle of|spell|lang=en|nocat=1}}
#* '''2006''', Wm. Shakespeare, Ann Thompson and Neil Taylor, eds., ''Hamlet'', London: Arden Shakespeare:
#*: [p 88] A persuasive theory about the authority of the quarto or Folio texts might shed light on how Shakespeare actually spelt these names in a particular manuscript, but, since Shakespeare seemed capable of '''spelling''' his own name differently on different occasions, how reliable a guide would such evidence be?

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}
<!-- (a verbal noun of the verb ''spell'') -->

# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The act, practice, ability, or subject of forming [[words]] with [[letters]], or of reading the letters of words; [[orthography]].
#* '''1904''', [[w: Andrew Dickson White|Andrew Dickson White]], ''Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White'', p 43:
#*: For the practical use of '''spelling''' comes in writing.
#* '''1920''', Henry Gallup Paine, ''Handbook of Simplified Spelling'', New York: Simplified Spelling Board, p 1:
#*: '''Spelling''' was invented by man and, like other human inventions, is capable of development and improvement by man in the direction of simplicity, economy, and efficiency.
#* '''2001''', [[w: Stephen White (author)|w: Stephen White]], ''The Program'', New York: Dell, p 66:
#*: I knew that Kriciak, the inspector who was supervising me for the Marshals Service, was going to go nuts when I told him that I wanted to allow Landon to participate in soccer and '''spelling'''.
# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The [[manner]] of spelling of words; [[correct]] spelling.
#* '''2006''', Wm. Shakespeare, Ann Thompson and Neil Taylor, eds., ''Hamlet'', London: Arden Shakespeare:
#*: [p 88] Because Elizabethan '''spelling''' was fluid, editors feel free to ‘modernize’ (correct) the '''spelling''' in the quartos and the Folio. But how is one to spell Rosencratz or Guildenstern, where the '''spelling''' varies, not only from text to text, but even within texts?
# {{lb|en|countable}} A [[specific]] spelling of a word.
#* '''2006''', Wm. Shakespeare, Ann Thompson and Neil Taylor, eds., ''Hamlet'', London: Arden Shakespeare:
#*: [p 253] '''*excellent'''  Q2’s ‘extent’ is generally dismissed as an error, probably a mis-reading of ‘exlent’, a common '''spelling''' at this time.
#*: [p 269] ''reverend''  The '''spellings''' ‘reuerent’ (Q2) and ‘Reuerend’ (F) were interchangeable at this time.
#*: [p 466] Guildensterne and Rosincrance are F’s consistent '''spellings'''.
# {{lb|en|US|rare|dated|countable|or|uncountable}} A spelling [[test]] or [[spelling bee]].
#* '''1860''', [[w:Oscar Lawrence Jackson|Oscar Lawrence Jackson]], ''The Colonel's Diary: Journals Kept Before and During the Civil War'' [1922], Sharon, Penn., p 23:
#*: The boys were anxious for a '''spelling''' in the evening but I said no.
#* '''1889''', [[w:James Whitcomb Riley|James Whitcomb Riley]], “A’ Old Played-Out Song”, in ''Pipes O' Pan at Zekesbury'', Indianapolis, Ind.: Bowen-Merrill, p 45:
#*: How her face ust to look, in the twilight, / As I tuck her to '''spellin’'''; and she / Kep’ a-hummin’ that song ’tel I ast her, / Pine-blank, ef she ever missed me!
#* '''2004''', Carl Lindahl, ed., ''American Folktales: From the Collections of the Library of Congress'', v 1, Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe, p 416:
#*: So we'd sit with these girls during school hours, and we told them, if they'd slip off, that we'd get away, and we'd go to [the school] to a '''spelling'''.

====Usage notes====
* Adjectives often used with "spelling": correct, incorrect, right, wrong, usual, unusual, standard, alternative, nonstandard, customary, common, rare.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|subject}} {{l|en|orthography}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act, practice, ability, or subject of forming words with letters, or of reading the letters of words; orthography}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|عِلْم اَلْإِمْلَاء|m}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|ortografía|f}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|правапі́с|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|правопи́с|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|ortografia|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|寫法|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|写法|tr=xiěfǎ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼字|tr=pīnzì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|pravopis|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ortografia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|orthographe|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|ortografía|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Orthografie|f}}, {{t+|de|Orthographie|f}}; {{t+|de|Rechtschreibung|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|כְּתִיב|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|helyesírás}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ortografia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|綴り字|tr=つづりじ, tsudzuriji|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|綴り|tr=つづり, tsudzuri|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|スペリング|tr=superingu|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|スペル|tr=superu|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|철자법|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|맞춤법|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|스펠|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|스펠링|sc=Kore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|пра́вопис|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ejaan}}, {{t|ms|ortografi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tātakinga}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|ortografia|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ortografia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|soletração|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|правописа́ние|n}}, {{t+|ru|орфогра́фия|f}}, {{t|ru|спе́ллинг|m|tr=spɛ́lling}} {{qualifier|of English}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|spellin}}, {{t|sco|spaein}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|litreachadh|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|правопис|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|pravopis|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|pravopis|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pravopís|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ortografía|f}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagbabaybay}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|право́пис|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|manner of spelling of words}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|hláskování|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oikeinkirjoitus}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|írás}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|綴り|tr=tsuzuri}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tātakinga}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|stavemåte|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|stavemåte|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pisownia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ortografia|f}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|spellin}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|litreachadh|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stavning|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagbabaybay}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|వర్ణక్రమం}} (varNakramam)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yazım}}, {{t+|tr|imla}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a specific spelling of a word}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|عِلْم اَلْإِمْلَاء|m}}, {{t|ar|هِجَاء|m}}, {{t|ar|تَهْجِئَة|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|正字法|tr=zhèngzìfǎ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼字|tr=pīnzì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼寫法|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼写法|tr=pīnxiěfǎ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|正詞法|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|正词法|tr=zhèngcífǎ|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼寫|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拼写|tr=pīnxiě|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|pravopis|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spelling|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oikeinkirjoitus}}, {{t|fi|tavaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|orthographe|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Orthografie|f}}, {{t+|de|Orthographie|f}}; {{t+|de|Rechtschreibung|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אִיּוּת|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|betűzés}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|正字法|tr=せいじほう, seijihō}}, {{t|ja|綴り|tr=tsuzuri}}, {{t|ja|文字綴り|tr=moji-tsuzuri}}, {{t|ja|スペル|tr=superu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ejaan}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tātakinga}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pisownia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|grafia|f}}, {{t+|pt|ortografia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|орфогра́фия|f}}, {{t+|ru|правописа́ние|n}}, {{qualifier|of English}} {{t|ru|спе́ллинг|m}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|spellin}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|litreachadh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|grafía|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stavning|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pagbabaybay}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|వర్ణక్రమం}} (varNakramam)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yazılış}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אויסלייג|m}}, {{t|yi|אָרטאָגראַפֿיע|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|spelling|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|ortografio}}
* Hindi: {{t-check|hi|वर्तनी|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|[[eja]]an}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|orthographia}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|ortografia|f}}
* Korean: {{t-check|ko|철자|tr=cheolja}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|ortografía|f}}
* Turkish: {{t-check|tr|yazım}}
* West Frisian: {{t-check|fy|skriuwwize}}, {{t-check|fy|stavering}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top2}}
* {{l|en|alternative spelling}}
* {{l|en|misspelling}}
* {{l|en|pronunciation spelling}}
* {{l|en|respell}}
* {{l|en|respelling}}
* {{l|en|spelling bee}}
* {{l|en|spelling checker}}
{{mid2}}
* {{l|en|spell checker}}, {{l|en|spell-checker}}, {{l|en|spellchecker}}
* {{l|en|spell check}}, {{l|en|spell-check}}, {{l|en|spellcheck}}
* {{l|en|spelling error}}
* {{l|en|spelling mistake}}
* {{l|en|spelling pronunciation}}
* {{l|en|spelling reform}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:en:Orthography]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈspɛlɪŋ/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-spelling.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{hyphenation|spel|ling|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|nl|spellen|ing}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|f|-en|spellinkje}}

# [[#English|spelling]]

[[ar:spelling]]
[[ca:spelling]]
[[da:spelling]]
[[de:spelling]]
[[et:spelling]]
[[el:spelling]]
[[fr:spelling]]
[[gd:spelling]]
[[ko:spelling]]
[[hy:spelling]]
[[io:spelling]]
[[id:spelling]]
[[it:spelling]]
[[kn:spelling]]
[[ku:spelling]]
[[li:spelling]]
[[hu:spelling]]
[[mg:spelling]]
[[ml:spelling]]
[[my:spelling]]
[[nl:spelling]]
[[ja:spelling]]
[[pl:spelling]]
[[pt:spelling]]
[[ru:spelling]]
[[simple:spelling]]
[[fi:spelling]]
[[sv:spelling]]
[[ta:spelling]]
[[te:spelling]]
[[th:spelling]]
[[chr:spelling]]
[[tr:spelling]]
[[vi:spelling]]
[[zh:spelling]]