==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Spider (disambiguation)|Spider}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|spithre}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|spīder}}, {{m|ang|spīþra||spider}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*spinþrô||spider", literally, "spinner}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*(s)pend-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*(s)pen-||to pull, stretch, spin}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{m|sco|spider||spider}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{m|fy|spin||spider}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{m|nl|spin||spider}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{m|de|Spinne||spider}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{m|da|spinder||spinner, spider}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{m|sv|spindel||spider}}. More at {{l|en|spin}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|spī'də(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈspaɪdə(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈspʌɪɾəɹ/|lang=en}}
** {{audio|En-us-spider.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|Spyder|lang=en}}<!-- various sports cars [proper noun?] -->
* {{rhymes|aɪdə(ɹ)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Any of various eight-legged, predatory [[arthropod]]s, of the order ''[[Araneae]]'', most of which spin [[web]]s to catch prey.
# {{label|en|Internet}} A program which follows links on the [[World Wide Web]] in order to gather information.
# {{label|en|chiefly|Australia|and|New Zealand}} A [[float]] (drink) made by mixing [[ice-cream]] and a [[soda]] or [[fizzy drink]] (such as [[lemonade]]).
#* '''2002''', Katharine Gasparini, ''Cranberry and vanilla ice cream '''spider''''', recipe in ''Cool Food'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=tRTkBqKv1UoC&pg=PA339&dq=%22ice+cream%22+%22spider|spiders%22&hl=en&ei=fJvPTrKyCMWUiQeFndDCDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22ice%20cream%22%20%22spider|spiders%22&f=false page 339].
# {{label|en|slang}} A spindly person.
# {{label|en|slang}} A man who persistently approaches or [[accost]]s a woman in a public social setting, particularly in a bar.
# {{label|en|snooker|billiards}} A stick with a convex arch-shaped notched head used to support the [[cue]] when the [[cue ball]] is out of reach at normal extension; a [[bridge]].
# {{label|en|cookware|US|UK|chiefly|historical|and|now|dialectal}} A cast-iron frying pan with three legs, once common in open-hearth cookery.
#* '''1846''', Mary Hooker Cornelius, ''The Young Housekeeper's Friend'', [http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/008611479 page&nbsp;146], recipe&nbsp;28 “To fry salt pork”:
#*: Cut slices and lay them in cold water in the '''spider'''; boil them up two or three minutes, then pour off the water and set the '''spider''' again on the coals and brown the slices on each side.
#* '''2005''', Marty Davidson, ''Grandma Grace's Southern Favorites'', recipe for “strawberry coconuts”, Rutledge Hill Press, ISBN 1-4016-0219-3, page&nbsp;193:
#*: In '''spider''' pan or deep skillet set over hot coals, quickly fry a few at a time in deep lard until brown.
#* '''2008''', Corona Club (San Francisco, California), ''Corona Club Cook Book'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=OcOT3zked6oC&pg=PA202&dq=%22ice+cream%22+%22spider|spiders%22&hl=en&ei=zKLPTqyxMYuImQX7vJihDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22ice%20cream%22%20%22spider|spiders%22&f=false page 202],
#*: Melt ½ the dry sugar in the '''spider''', stirring with knife until all is melted.
# {{label|en|cookware}} Implement for moving food in and out of hot oil for deep frying, with a circular metal mesh attached to a long handle.
#* '''1996''', City and Guilds of London Institute, ''Food preparation and cooking. Cookery units. Student guide.'', Stanley Thornes, ISBN 0-7487-2566-0, unit 2ND5, element&nbsp;2, page&nbsp;157:
#*: If you are deep-frying your falafel, use a '''spider''' or basket to place them gently into the hot oil, which should be preheated to a temperature of 175°C (330°F).
#* '''2008''', Anna Kasabian and David Kasabian, ''The Wild Fish Cookbook'', Creative Publishing International, ISBN 1-58923-317-4, page&nbsp;84:
#*: Consider investing in a frying basket or a '''spider''' for small amounts of fish. A '''spider''' looks like a metal web and has a long handle and can lower and raise fish from the hot oil.
# A part of a [[crank]], to which the [[chainrings]] are attached
# {{label|en|slang}} [[heroin|Heroin]] (street drug).
# {{label|en|music}} Part of a [[resonator]] [[instrument]] that transmits string vibrations from the [[bridge]] to a resonator cone at multiple points.
# A skeleton or frame with radiating arms or members, often connected by crosspieces, such as a casting forming the hub and spokes to which the rim of a fly wheel or large gear is bolted; the body of a piston head; or a frame for strengthening a core or mould for a casting.

====Derived terms====
* {{vern|assassin spider}}
* {{vern|coconut spider}}
* {{vern|pelican spider}}
* [[spiderdom]]
* [[spidership]]
* [[spidery]]
* [[Spider Solitaire]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|arthropod}}
* Abkhaz: {{t|ab|абызкаҭаҳа|sc=Cyrl}}
* Adyghe: {{t|ady|бэджы}}, {{qualifier|Shapsug}} {{t|ady|багьэ}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|spinnekop}}
* Ainu: {{t|ain|ヤテㇷ゚|tr=yatep}}
* Akan: {{t|ak|anansi}}, {{t|ak|ananse}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|merimangë|f}}
* Algonquin: {{t|alq|mamunappeht}}
* Southern Altai: {{t|alt|джергемеш|sc=Cyrl}}
* Amharic: {{t|am|ሸረሪት}}
* Amuzgo: {{t|amu|kítònkwé}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|عَنْكَبُوت|m}}, {{t|ar|شَبَث|m}}
* Aragonese: {{t|an|araina|f}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|սարդ}}
* Aromanian: {{t+|rup|pangu}}, {{t|rup|merimangã|f}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|araña|f}}
* Avar: {{t|av|къорола|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|av|нусиреч|sc=Cyrl}}
* Aymara: {{t|ay|kusi kusi}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|hörümçək}}
* Baluchi: {{t|bal|موکو|tr=mokú, moko}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|үрмәксе|sc=Cyrl}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|armiarma}}
* Bau Bidayuh: {{t|sne|toka}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|паву́к|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|মাকড়সা|tr=makôŗsha|sc=Beng}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|kevnidenn|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|па́як|m}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ပင့်ကူ|sc=Mymr}}
* Karelian: {{t|krl|hämähäkki}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|aranya|f}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|damang}}
* Central Melanau: {{t|mel|belabawak}}
* Chaldean Neo-Aramaic: {{t|cld|атакан|tr=atakan|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|kajs̈holi}}
* Chamorro: {{t|ch|sånye'ye'}}
* Chechen: {{t|ce|гезг|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ce|гезг}}
* Cherokee: {{t+|chr|ᎧᎾᏁᏍᎩ}}
* Cheyenne: {{t|chy|vé'ho'e}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|蠄蟧|tr=kam<sup>4</sup> lou<sup>4</sup>|sc=Hant}}, ''(from Mandarin)'' {{t|yue|蜘蛛|tr=zi<sup>1</sup> zyu<sup>1</sup>|sc=Hant}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|蜘蛛|tr=zhīzhū|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|蜘蛛|tr=ti-tu|sc=Hans}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|kevnisenn|f}}, {{t|kw|kevnis|m}}, {{t|kw|gwiader|m}}
* Corsican: {{t|co|aragnu|m}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{t|crh|biy}}, {{t|crh|örümçek}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pavouk|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|edderkop|c}}
* Daur: {{t|dta|атаакий|tr=ataakij}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spin|f}}, {{t+|nl|kobbe|f}}
* Erzya: {{t|myv|шанжав}}, {{t|myv|пондо мукоро}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|araneo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|ämblik}}
* Extremaduran: {{t|ext|murgañu|m}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|eiturkoppur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hämähäkki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|araignée|f}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|ragn}}
* Gagauz: {{t|gag|örümcä}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|araña|f}}
* Gallo: {{t|roa-gal|irâgne|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ობობა}}, {{qualifier|obsolete}} {{t|ka|დედაზარდლი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spinne|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αράχνη|f}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἀράχνη|f}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|aasiak}}
* Guaraní: {{t|gn|ñandu}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|zariyen}}
* Hausa: {{t|ha|gizo gizo|m|alt=gizò-gizò}}, {{qualifier|long-legged}} {{t|ha|tautau|m|alt=tautàu}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|nananana}}, {{t|haw|pūnāwelewele}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|עַכָּבִישׁ|m|tr=akavish|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|मकड़ी|f|tr=makṛī|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|मकड़ा|m|tr=makṛā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|pók}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kónguló|f}}, {{t+|is|könguló|f}}
* Igbo: {{t|ig|ududo}}
* Ilocano: {{t|ilo|lawwa}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|labah}}
* Ingush: {{t|inh|гизг|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|inh|гизг}}
* Interlingua: {{t+|ia|aranea}}
* Inuktitut: {{t+|iu|ᐋᓯᕙᖅ|sc=Cans}}, {{t+|iu|aasivaq|sc=Latn}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|damhán alla|m}}, {{t|ga|ruán alla|m}}, {{t|ga|fíodóir|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ragno|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|蜘蛛|tr=くも, kumo|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|クモ|tr=kumo|sc=Jpan}}, {{qualifier|katakana}} {{t|ja|スパイダー|tr=supaidā|sc=Jpan}}
* Kala Lagaw Ya: {{t|mwp|ma}}
* Kalmyk: {{t|xal|аралҗн}}
* Kannada: {{t+|kn|ಸಾಲಿಗ|sc=Knda}}, {{t+|kn|ಜೇಡ|sc=Knda}}
* Kapampangan: {{t|pam|babagwa}}
* Karakalpak: {{t|kaa|o'rmekshi}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|өрмекші|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khakas: {{t|kjh|iрiмӌiк|tr=írímcík}}
* Khanty:
*: Kazym: {{t|kca|нимсар ими|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ពីងពាង|tr=bpīng bpīəng|sc=Khmr}}
* Kimaragang: {{t|kqr|korut}}
* Komi-Permyak: {{t|koi|черань|sc=Cyrl}}
* Komi-Zyrian: {{t|kpv|черань}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|거미|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|지주|sc=Kore}}
* Kumyk: {{t|kum|мияма|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|kum|мия|sc=Cyrl}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|жөргөмүш|sc=Cyrl}}
* Ladin: {{t|lld|aragn|f}}
* Ladino: {{t|lad|aranya|f}}
* Lao: {{t+|lo|ແມງມຸມ|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|dziernyukss}}, {{t|ltg|ziernyuklis}}
* Latin: {{t|la|aranea|f}}, {{t|la|araneus|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|zirneklis|m}}
* Laz: {{t|lzz|bobola}}, {{t|lzz|raxna}}
* Lezgi: {{t|lez|хуьшрекан|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|voras|m}}
* Livvi: {{t|olo|hämähäkki}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|jukni}}
* Lombard: {{t|lmo|ragn|m}}
* Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|pawk|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Spann|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|пајак|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|labah-labah}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|എട്ടുകാലി|sc=Mlym}}, {{t+|ml|ചിലന്തി|sc=Mlym}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|brimba|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|doo-oallee|f}}, {{t|gv|feeder|m}}, {{t|gv|treechoshagh|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|puawerewere}}, {{t|mi|puungaawerewere}}, {{t|mi|puungaiwerewere}}, {{t|mi|puuwerewere}}, {{t|mi|tuuturi}}
* Mari:
*: Eastern Mari: {{t|chm|эҥыремыш}}
*: Western Mari: {{t|mrj|ӓнгӹремшӹ}}
* Mazanderani: {{t|mzn|ون|tr=van|sc=ps-Arab}}, {{t|mzn|وننالی|tr=vannâli|sc=ps-Arab}}
* Megleno-Romanian: {{t|ruq|puiangu|m}}
* Mezquital Otomi: {{t|ote|mexe}}
* Mingrelian: {{t|xmf|ბორბოლია}}
* Mirandese: {{t|mwl|aranhon|m}}
* Moksha: {{t|mdf|котфонь кодай|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|mdf|унжа|sc=Cyrl}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|аалз|sc=Cyrl}}
* Nahuatl: {{t+|nah|tocatl}}
* Nanai: {{t|gld|атакан|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|naʼashjéʼii}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|rancio|m}}
* Nepali: {{t|ne|माकुरो|tr=mākuro|sc=Deva}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|bwibwi|c5|c6}}
* Nogai: {{t|nog|каракурт|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|edderkopp|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|edderkopp|m}}
* Ojibwe: {{t|oj|asabikeshiinh}}, {{t|oj|asabikeshi}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|паѫкъ|m}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|غڼه|f|tr=ǧëṇa|sc=ps-Arab}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|عنکبوت|tr=‘ankabut|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|تارتنک|tr=târtanak}}
* Piedmontese: {{t|pms|aragn|m}}, {{t|pms|ragn|m}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Spand|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pająk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aranha|f}}
* Punjabi: {{t|pa|ਮੱਕਡ਼ੀ|tr=makkṛī|sc=Deva}}
* Purepecha: {{t|pua|sïkuapu}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|kusikusi}} {{qualifier|small}}, {{t|qu|apasanka}} {{qualifier|big}}, {{t|qu|uru}} {{qualifier|Cusco Quechua}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|păianjen|m}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|filien|m}}, {{t|rm|filien|m}} {{qualifier|Rumantsch Grischun}}, {{t|rm|falien|m}} {{qualifier|Sursilvan}}, {{t|rm|falient|m}}, {{t|rm|filùn|m}} {{qualifier|Sutsilvan}}, {{t|rm|arogn|m}} {{qualifier|Rumantsch Grischun, Vallader}}, {{t|rm|aragnun|m}} {{qualifier|Puter}}, {{t|rm|filunza|f}} {{qualifier|Rumantsch Grischun, Surmiran}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пау́к|m}}
* Samoan: {{t|sm|'apogāleveleve}}
* Samogitian: {{t|sgs|vuors}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|aranzolu|m}}, {{t|sc|aragnolu}}, {{t|sc|aragiolu}}, {{t|sc|arantzolu}}, {{t|sc|arrungiolu}}, {{t|sc|ranzolu}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|damhan-allaidh|m}}, {{t|gd|figheadair|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|паук|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|pauk|m}}
* Shor: {{t|cjs|қорбалчық|tr=qorbalçıq}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|taràntala|f}}, {{t+|scn|ragnu|m}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|මකුළුවා|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|pavúk|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pajek|m}}
* Somali: {{t+|so|caaro|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|pawk|m}}
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|pawk|m}}
* Southern Altai: {{t|alt|јӧргӧмӧш|tr=cörgömöş}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|araña|f}}
* Svan: {{t-needed|sva}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|buibui}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spindel|c}}
* Tabasaran: {{t|tab|хашхаш|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|North dialect}}, {{t|tab|хашв|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|South dialect}}
* Tagal Murut: {{t|mvv|lawa'}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|gagamba|alt=gagambá}}, {{t|tl|alalawa|alt=álalawa}}
* Tahitian: {{t|ty|tūtūrahonui}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|анкабут|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|tg|тортанак|sc=Cyrl}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|சிலந்தி|sc=Taml}}
* Taos: {{t|twf|p’ȍ’ǫ́yona}}
* Tatar: {{t|tt|ürmäküç|sc=Cyrl}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|సాలీడు}}
* Thai: {{t|th|แมงมุม|tr=maeng mum}}
* Tongan: {{t|to|hina}}
* Tswana: {{t|tn|segokgo}}
* Tupinambá: {{t|tpn|nhandu'ĩ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|örümcek}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|möý}}, {{t|tk|leñkewut}}
* Udmurt: {{t|udm|чонари}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|паву́к|m}}
* Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|pawk}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|مکڑی|f|tr=makṛī|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t|ur|مکڑا|m|tr=makṛā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Uyghur: {{t+|ug|ئۆمۈچۈك|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|o'rgimchak}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|ragno|m}}, {{t+|vec|rain|m}}
* Veps: {{t|vep|hämähouk}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nhện}}, {{t|vi|con nhện}}
* Volapük: {{qualifier|♂♀}} {{t+|vo|raänid}}, {{qualifier|♂}} {{t|vo|hiraänid}}, {{qualifier|♀}} {{t|vo|jiraänid}}, {{qualifier|♂♀ offspring}} {{t|vo|raänidül}}, {{qualifier|♂ offspring}} {{t|vo|hiraänidül}}, {{qualifier|♀ offspring}} {{t|vo|jiraänidül}}, {{qualifier|diminutive ♂♀}} {{t|vo|raänidil}}, {{qualifier|augmentative ♂♀}} {{t|vo|leraänid}}, {{qualifier|older word}} {{t+|vo|spulaf}}
* Walloon: {{t|wa|aragne|f}}, {{t|wa|arègne|f}}
* Waray-Waray: {{t|war|lawà}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|corryn|m}}, {{t|cy|pryf copyn|m}}
* West Coast Bajau: {{t|bdr|kobon-kobon}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|spin|c}}
* Wiradhuri: {{t|wrh|gangga}}
* Wolof: {{t+|wo|jargoñ|alt=jargoñ gi}}
* Yakut: {{t|sah|ооҕуй|sc=Cyrl}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|שפּין|f|tr=shpin}}
* Yoruba: {{t|yo|alantakun}}
* Yucatec Maya: {{t|yua|am}}
* Zazaki: {{t|zza|tertenek}}
* Zulu: {{t|zu|ulwembu|c11|c10}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computer program}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|zirnekļprogramma|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|drink}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: a spindly person}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αράχνη|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|snooker, billiards}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To move like a spider.
#* '''2001''', Life Books, ''Life: The Greatest Adventures of All Time'', Time Home Entertainment Incorporated (ISBN 9781929049066)
#*: A year later she returned to El Cap and '''spidered''' up the wall again — this time in  23 hours.
#* '''2009''', Michael Crummey, ''Galore: A novel'', Doubleday Canada (ISBN 9780307372291)
#*: They saved the hall though the facing and part of the roof had to be torn out and  replaced, men '''spidered''' over the building to repair it before Coaker&#39;s arrival.
#* '''2012''', David Gross, ''Lord of Stormweather: Sembia: Gateway to the Realms'', Wizards of the Coast (ISBN 9780786962853)
#*: Briefly he considered letting go to glide along in Radu&#39;s wake as the assassin '''spidered''' up the wall.
# To cover a surface like a [[cobweb]].
#* '''2011''', Jenna Burtenshaw, ''Wintercraft: Blackwatch'', Hachette UK (ISBN 9780755371242)
#*: High walls surrounded it on all sides, each one covered with the skeletal stems of  climbing plants that '''spidered''' across the stones, and the ground was cobbled  between patches of frozen grass.
#* '''2011''', MJ Ware, ''Super Zombie Juice Mega Bomb'', MJA Ware (ISBN 9781466355019)
#*: Large cracks '''spidered''' across the mask&#39;s glass where the nozzle had hit.
#* '''2013''', Mary Gentle, ''Rats and Gargoyles'', Hachette UK (ISBN 9780575128804)
#*: Moss '''spidered''' across the stone, fresh green. Seaweed sprouted bright yellows  and ochres between the vast webs of fingers.
# {{label|en|Internet|of a computer program}} to follow links on the [[World Wide Web]] in order to gather information.
#: ''The online dictionary is regularly '''spidered''' by search engines.

====Derived terms====
* [[Web spidering]]

===See also===
* [[arachnid]]
* {{projectlink|wikipedia}}

===Anagrams===
* [[prides#English|prides]], [[prised#English|prised]], [[risped#English|risped]], [[spired#English|spired]]

[[Category:en:Spiders]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
{{it-noun|m|-}}

# {{label|it|computing}} {{l|en|spider}} (Internet software)

===Anagrams===
* [[sperdi#Italian|sperdi]]

[[roa-rup:spider]]
[[ay:spider]]
[[az:spider]]
[[zh-min-nan:spider]]
[[ca:spider]]
[[cs:spider]]
[[da:spider]]
[[de:spider]]
[[et:spider]]
[[el:spider]]
[[es:spider]]
[[eo:spider]]
[[eu:spider]]
[[fa:spider]]
[[fr:spider]]
[[gl:spider]]
[[ko:spider]]
[[hy:spider]]
[[io:spider]]
[[id:spider]]
[[ia:spider]]
[[iu:spider]]
[[it:spider]]
[[kn:spider]]
[[sw:spider]]
[[ku:spider]]
[[lo:spider]]
[[la:spider]]
[[lv:spider]]
[[lt:spider]]
[[li:spider]]
[[hu:spider]]
[[mk:spider]]
[[mg:spider]]
[[ml:spider]]
[[mn:spider]]
[[my:spider]]
[[nah:spider]]
[[nl:spider]]
[[ja:spider]]
[[no:spider]]
[[oc:spider]]
[[pl:spider]]
[[pt:spider]]
[[ro:spider]]
[[ru:spider]]
[[simple:spider]]
[[sr:spider]]
[[fi:spider]]
[[sv:spider]]
[[ta:spider]]
[[te:spider]]
[[chr:spider]]
[[tr:spider]]
[[ug:spider]]
[[vi:spider]]
[[wa:spider]]
[[zh:spider]]