==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|spoil}}, {{IPA|/spɔɪl/}}, {{SAMPA|/spOIl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-spoil.ogg|Audio (US)}}

* {{rhymes|ɔɪl}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|espoillier|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|spoliare|spoliāre||lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|spolio|spoliō|pillage, ruin, spoil|lang=la}}.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|spoils|spoiling|'''[[spoiled]] '''or''' [[spoilt]]'''}}

# {{transitive|archaic}} To [[strip]] (someone who has been killed or defeated) of their [[arms]] or [[armour]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{transitive|archaic}} To [[strip]] or [[deprive]] (someone) of their possessions; to [[rob]], [[despoil]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#*'''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Acts IX:
#*:All that herde hym wer amased and sayde: ys nott this he that '''spoylled''' them whych called on this name in Jerusalem?
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', VII:
#*: To do her dye (quoth Vna) were despight, / And shame t'auenge so weake an enimy; / But '''spoile''' her of her scarlot robe, and let her fly.
#* '''1621''', {{w|Robert Burton}}, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', I.2.4.vii:
#*: Roger, that rich Bishop of Salisbury, [...] '''spoiled''' of his goods by King Stephen, [...] through grief ran mad, spoke and did he knew not what.
# {{transitive|archaic}} To [[plunder]], [[pillage]] (a city, country etc.). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{transitive|obsolete}} To [[carry]] off (goods) by force; to [[steal]]. {{defdate|14th-19th c.}}
# {{transitive}} To [[ruin]]; to [[damage]] (something) in some way making it unfit for use. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#*'''2011''', ‘What the Arab papers say’, ''The Economist'', 5 Aug 2011:
#*:‘This is a great day for us. Let us not '''spoil''' it by saying the wrong thing, by promoting a culture of revenge, or by failing to treat the former president with respect.’
# {{transitive}} To ruin the character of, by overindulgence; to [[coddle]] or [[pamper]] to excess. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# {{intransitive}} Of food, to become bad, [[sour]] or [[rancid]]; to [[decay]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''Make sure you put the milk back in the fridge, otherwise it will '''spoil'''.''
# {{transitive}} To render (a ballot paper) [[invalid]] by deliberately defacing it. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#*'''2003''', David Nicoll, ''The Guardian'', letter:
#*:Dr Jonathan Grant (Letters, April 22) feels the best way to show his disaffection with political parties over Iraq is to '''spoil''' his ballot paper.
# {{transitive}} To reveal the ending of (a story etc.); to ruin (a [[surprise]]) by exposing it ahead of time.


====Synonyms====
* {{sense|ruin}} [[damage]], [[destroy]], [[ruin]]
* {{sense|coddle}} [[coddle]], [[indulge]], [[mollycoddle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|ruin}}
* Dutch: [[verbrodden]], [[verprutsen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gâter}}
* German: {{t+|de|ruinieren}}, {{t+|de|verderben}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|rongál}},  {{t+|hu|tönkretesz}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|mill|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rovinare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|台無しにする|tr=dainashi ni suru}}, {{t|ja|悪くなる|tr=warukunaru}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|strica}}, {{t+|ro|ruina}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|портить|tr=pórtit’}},  {{t+|ru|испортить|tr=ispórtit’}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[sbinnari]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dañar}}, {{t+|es|arruinar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|fördärva}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to coddle or pamper}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rozmazlit}}
* Dutch: [[verwennen]], [[bederven]] (maybe only in Flanders)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilata}}, {{t|fi|hemmotella}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gâter}}
* German: [[verwöhnen]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|elkényeztet}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|mill|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|viziare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|甘やかす|tr=amayakasu}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|răsfăța}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|баловать|tr=balovát’, bálovat’}},  {{t|ru|избаловать|tr=izbalovát’, izbálovat’}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|malcriar}}, {{t+|es|consentir}}, {{qualifier|Mexico}} {{t-|es|chiquear}}
* Swedish: skämma bort
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|become sour}}
* Czech: [[zkazit]] se
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bederven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilaantua}}, {{t|fi|hapantua}}, {{t|fi|mädäntyä}}, {{t|fi|mädätä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gâter}}, {{t+|fr|tourner}}
* German: {{t+|de|verderben}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|gate}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|התקלקל}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|megsavanyodik}},  {{t|hu|megromlik}}
* Italian: [[andare]] a [[male]] {{m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|腐る|tr=kusaru}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|прокиснуть}} (''of liquid foods''), {{t|ru|скиснуть}} (''liquids''), {{t|ru|испортиться}} (''solids'')
* [[Sicilian]]: [[peddiri]], [[passari]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|agriar}}, {{t-|es|descomponerse}}, {{t-|es|echarse a perder}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# (Also in plural: '''spoils''') [[plunder|Plunder]] taken from an enemy or victim.
# {{uncountable}} Material (such as rock or earth) removed in the course of an [[excavation]], or in [[mining]] or [[dredge|dredging]].  [[tailings|Tailings]].

====Derived terms====
* [[spoiler]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|plunder taken from an enemy or victim}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|lup|m}}, {{t-|cs|kořist|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|buit|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|saalis}} {{qualifier|general}}; {{t|fi|ryöstösaalis}} {{qualifier|from robbery}}; {{t|fi|sotasaalis}} {{qualifier|in war}}
* German: {{t+|de|Beute|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|שלל|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|zsákmány}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|bottino|m}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|by a rioter or soldier}} {{t|ja|略奪品|tr=ryakudatsu-hin}}; {{qualifier|by a governmental officer}} {{t|ja|利権|tr=riken}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|pradă}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|трофей|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|botín|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|material moved}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jätemassa}} {{qualifier|general}}; {{t|fi|jätemaa}} {{qualifier|excavation}}; {{t|fi|louhe}} {{qualifier|mining, quarrying}}; {{t|fi|ruoppausmassa}} {{qualifier|dredging}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|廃棄物|tr=haiki-butsu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|id}}: [[kotor|mengotori]], [[noda|menodai]]

====See also====
* [[spoilage]]
* [[spoils of war]]
* [[spoilsport]]
* [[spoilt]]<!--adjective, referring to people, ballot papers, etc-->
* [[too many cooks spoil the broth]]

===Anagrams===
* [[polis#English|polis]]

[[cs:spoil]]
[[de:spoil]]
[[et:spoil]]
[[el:spoil]]
[[es:spoil]]
[[fa:spoil]]
[[fr:spoil]]
[[gl:spoil]]
[[hr:spoil]]
[[io:spoil]]
[[it:spoil]]
[[kn:spoil]]
[[hu:spoil]]
[[my:spoil]]
[[nl:spoil]]
[[ja:spoil]]
[[pl:spoil]]
[[pt:spoil]]
[[ru:spoil]]
[[simple:spoil]]
[[fi:spoil]]
[[sv:spoil]]
[[ta:spoil]]
[[te:spoil]]
[[tr:spoil]]
[[uk:spoil]]
[[vi:spoil]]
[[zh:spoil]]