'''Feeding Solid Food to Baby the First Time'''

I read in “Super Baby Food” that infant feeders or bottles with large holes are a big mistake when trying to transition a baby from breast or bottle to spoon feeding. They can actually delay development of muscles in the tongue used for swallowing more solidified food, and for clear speech patterns later. But there’s a real problem at feeding time when I’m trying to use a regular baby spoon, and my child is trying to suck the rice cereal and milk mixture from the spoon. Because he was trying to suck, his tongue pushed the food back out and down his chin. By the time I got him to swallow it, it had been reintroduced into his mouth several times and was half saliva. Not to mention he was swallowing air along with the mush.

'''New Kind of Spoon'''

I’m now testing out a spoon called Flowspoon that has a covered front to the spoon. It’s not soft or squishy, but hard plastic that’s all one piece, so it can’t come apart. The food scoops in the side like a normal spoon, then the baby sucks the food out of a hole in the front of the spoon. The food goes right down. And the best part is that my child is not associating being fed with a spoon with spitting and splattering food everywhere. The food is being eaten, not used as finger-paint. Also, since there is much less air being swallowed, he has not spit his food back up.
It’s unbelievable no one thought of this a long time ago. I’m now mixing a small amount of pureed fruit or carrots with the breast milk and rice cereal, about the consistency of gravy. I tried giving it to him with the old baby spoon, and he’s able to swallow it easily about every 4th time, so he’s learning. About one more week with the Flowspoon and I think he will be ready for the regular baby spoon and thicker food. Hopefully he’ll continue associating food going directly in his mouth, but I know when he gets his own toddler spoon, he’ll still be doing some decorating.

'''Easy Organic Carrot Puree'''

Did you know if you put fresh picked carrots in the freezer, they naturally go limp without loosing any of their nutrients? This way you don’t have to steam or cook them before pureeing. 
Remove tops from fresh organic carrots and wash thoroughly with water and vinegar and a potato scrubber. Place carrots in a ziplock bag and put in freezer overnight. Remove carrots, thaw in refrigerator, and place in food processor with a small amount of distilled water, pureeing them to the consistency of smooth applesauce. Easy!
You can freeze pureed food in ice cube trays wrapped in a plastic bag. This way you can warm one cube at a time in a dish placed in hot water.