==English==

{{rank|expect|nation|legal|965|spread|enter|consider|provided}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/'sprɛd/}}
*{{audio|en-us-spread.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛd|-ɛd]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|spreads|spreading|spread}}[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
# {{transitive}} To put one’s [[leg]]s apart.
# {{transitive}} To [[divide]] something in a [[homogeneous]] way.
# {{transitive}} To [[scatter]].
# {{transitive}} To put [[butter]] or [[jam]] onto bread.
# {{transitive}} To [[expand]].
#:''Missionaries spread their religion's teachings.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[expand]].
#:''The disease had spread into remote villages.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To put one’s [[leg]]s apart}}
*Danish: [[sprede]]
*Dutch: [[spreiden]]
*Finnish: [[levittää]]
*German: [[spreizen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[قاچ کردنه‌وه‌‌]]}}
*Russian: [[раздвигать]] (razdvigát') {{impf}}, [[раздвинуть]] (razdvínut') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To [[divide]] something in a [[homogeneous]] way}}
*Danish: [[fordele]]
*Dutch: [[verspreiden]]
*Finnish: [[levittää]], [[tasoittaa]]
*German: [[verteilen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[распространять]] (rasprostran'át’), [[распространить]] (rasprostrant’)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To [[scatter]]}}
*Danish: [[sprede]], [[strø]]
*Finnish: [[levittää]], [[sirottaa]], [[hajottaa]]
*German: [[ausstreuen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[بڵاوکردنه‌وه‌]]}}
*Russiab: [[раскидывать]] (paskídyvat') {{impf}}, [[раскидать]] (raskidát') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To put [[butter]] or [[jam]] onto bread}}
*Danish: [[smøre]]
*Finnish: [[levittää]]
*German: [[auftragen]], [[beschmieren]], [[bestreichen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[намазывать]] (namázyvat') {{impf}}, [[намазать]] (namázat') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(transitive) To [[expand]]}}
*Danish: [[sprede]], [[udbrede]]
*Finnish: [[levittää]]
*German: [[verbreiten]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[распространять]] (rasprostran'át’), [[распространить]] (rasprostrant’)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(intransitive) To [[expand]]}}
*Danish: [[brede]] sig, [[sprede]] sig
*Finnish: [[levitä]]
*German: [[ausbreiten]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[بڵاوکردنه‌وه‌]]}}
*Russian: [[распространяться]] (rasprostran'át’s'a), [[распространиться]] (rasprostrant’s'a)
{{trans-bottom}}

<!-- please remove this section once all the words have been moved to their approriate tables above-->
{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[فرد]]}} {{Unicode|(fárada)}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[散開]], [[散开]] (sànkāi)
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[étendre]], [[écarter]] (1), [[éparpiller]] (2), [[deferler]] (3), [[étaler]] (4)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[szétterjeszteni]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sebar|menyebar]], [[siar|menyiarkan]], [[sebar luas|menyebarluaskan]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[stendere]], [[allargare]] (1), [[dividere]] (2), [[spargere]], [[diffondere]] (3), [[spalmare]] ([[burro]] o [[marmellata]]) (4)
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ばら撒く]] ([[ばらまく]], baramaku), [[広げる]] (ひろげる, hirogeru)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: 
*:(1) [[벌리다]] (beollida)
*:(3) [[뿌리다]] (ppurida)
*:(2,4,5) [[펴다]] (pyeoda)
*:(6) [[퍼지다]] (peojida)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[espalhar]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[extender]], [[desplegar]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[sprida]]
*{{ttbc|[[Telugu]]}}: [[చాపు]] (chaapu) (1), [[పరచు]] (parachu) (2)
{{trans-bottom}}
[[Category:English simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[spreading]] or something that has been spread.
# An [[expanse]] of [[land]].
# A piece of [[material]] used as a [[cover]] (such as a [[bedspread]]).
# A large [[meal]], especially one laid out on a table.
# Any form of [[food]] designed to be spread onto a slice of bread etc.
# An [[item]] in a [[newspaper]] or [[magazine]] that occupies more than one column or page.
# A [[numerical]] [[difference]].
# Spread betting:

 A form of betting in which the bookmaker predicts a range of likely outcomes for (an aspect of) a sporting fixture or other event, and the better, placing a stake on a higher or lower result, wins or loses a multiple of that stake, calculated on how accurate this prediction is in relation to that quoted by the bookmaker. Also in extended use in financial trading, of predicted price movements over a specified period of time. Cf. point spread s.v. POINT n.1 D. 19. 
[1960 N.Y. Times 12 Oct. 50/7 Raper's firm goes in for point-spread betting, the kind most likely to be involved in attempts to fix matches.] 1992 Daily Tel. 1 Apr. 25/2 Sporting Index is a new and well-connected firm of bookmakers, set up to concentrate on what is called spread-betting. If you want to bet on the number of fences which a horse..will clear at Aintree, you can buy or sell his chances as if he were a share. Buyers start to make money once he has jumped 23 fences, sellers hope he will jump fewer than 21. 1995 Guardian 15 Mar. I. 3/7 Spread betting, the latest craze in bookmaking, has introduced the volatility of the stock market into high-rolling wagers on football matches. 1999 H. REDKNAPP & D. MCGOVERN 'Arry (new ed.) x. 135 Spread betting is perhaps the fastest-growing form of punting in Britain and at the time a popular spread market was betting on the time of the first throw-in in Premiership matches. For example, the spread bookies would estimate the time of the first throw-in at, say, 65-80 seconds, and punters had to bet whether it would be sooner or later than that. If they ‘sold’ (that is, bet on an earlier throw-in) at 65 seconds and the first throw was timed at five seconds, then they would win 60 times their stake. 2001 Observer 15 Apr. (Business section) 8/5 One of the reasons spread betting is popular in the City is that it allows gamblers to bet both up and down. So, if punters think the Nasdaq is due for another slide south, they can back that hunch.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the act of spreading}}
*Danish: [[spredning]] {{c}}, [[udbredelse]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[levitys]], [[levittää|levittäminen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something that has been spread}}
*Finnish: [[levite]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an expanse of land}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a piece of material used as a cover (such as a bedspread)}}
*Danish: [[opredning]] {{c}} (''bedspread''), [[opdækning]] {{c}} (''a spreaded table'')
*Finnish: [[peite]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a large meal, especially one laid out on a table}}
*Danish: [[opdækning]] {{c}}, [[festmåltid]] {{c}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|food designed to be spread}}
*Danish: [[smørepålæg]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[levite]]
*German: [[Aufstrich]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an item in a newspaper or magazine that occupies more than one column or page}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a numerical difference}}
*Danish: [[spændvidde]] {{c}}, [[omfang]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[hajonta]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[el:spread]]
[[fr:spread]]
[[gl:spread]]
[[io:spread]]
[[id:spread]]
[[it:spread]]
[[hu:spread]]
[[pl:spread]]
[[pt:spread]]
[[ru:spread]]
[[fi:spread]]
[[ta:spread]]
[[vi:spread]]
[[uk:spread]]
[[zh:spread]]