==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* British English {{IPA|/ˈskwɒʃ/}}
* American English {{IPA|/ˈskwɑʃ/}}
* {{rhymes|ɒʃ}}

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A sport played in a walled court with a soft rubber ball and bats like tennis racquets.
# {{British}} A [[soft drink]] made from a fruit-based [[concentrate]] diluted with water.
#: ''When I'm thirsty I drink '''squash'''; it tastes much nicer than plain water.''
# A place or a situation where people have limited space to move.
#: ''It's a bit of a '''squash''' in this small room.''
# {{obsolete|countable}} Something soft and easily crushed; especially, an unripe pod of peas.
# {{obsolete|countable|pejorative}} Something unripe or soft.
# {{obsolete|countable}} A sudden fall of a heavy, soft body; also, a shock of soft bodies.

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[squashable]]
* [[squash ball]]
* [[squash court]]
* [[squash player]]
* [[squash racket]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|The sport}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|esquaix|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|壁球|tr=bìqiú|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|squash|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|squash}}, {{t-|fi|kössi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|squash|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Squash}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[سکواش]]}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|squash|m}}, {{t|nb|skvåsj|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|squash|m}}, {{t|nn|skvåsj|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|сквош|m|tr=skvoš|sc=Cyrl}}
* Simplified Chinese: {{tø|zh-cn|壁球}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|squash|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
<!---Please remove this template once the word has been placed in its appropriate table-->
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[ayote]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[racketball]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|squash|es}}

# {{transitive}} To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to [[crush]].
# {{transitive|intransitive}} To [[compress]] or [[restrict]] (oneself) into a small space; to [[squeeze]].
#: ''Somehow, she '''squashed''' all her books into her backpack, which was now too heavy to carry.''
#: ''We all managed to '''squash''' into Mum's tiny car.''

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[squash up]]
* [[squashy]]
* [[squish]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to beat or press into pulp or flat mass}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|murskata}}, {{t-|fi|puristaa}}, {{t|fi|soseuttaa}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|szétlapít}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|раздавливать|tr=razdávlivatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|раздавить|tr=razdavítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|расплющивать|tr=raspljúščivatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|расплющить|tr=raspljúščitʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|сжимать|tr=sžimátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|сжать|tr=sžatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|aplastamiento|m}}, {{t|es|aplastar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to compress}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|samenpersen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ahtaa}}, [[ahtautua]]
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|összenyom}}, {{t|hu|összeprésel}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[tʻkxʻām]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|сдавливать|tr=sdávlivatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|сдавить|tr=sdavítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|сжимать|tr=sžimátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|сжать|tr=sžatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|aplastamiento|m}}, {{t|es|aplastar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Racquet sports]]
[[Category:en:Sports]]
[[Category:Squash]]

===Etymology 2===

====Noun====
{{en-noun|pl1=squash|pl2=squashes|-}}

# {{countable}} {{botany}} A plant and its fruit of the genus [[Cucurbita]], or [[gourd]] kind.
#: Note: The species are much confused.  The long-neck squash is called Cucurbita verrucosa, the Barbary or China squash, C. moschata, and the great winter squash, C. maxima, but the distinctions are not clear.
# The edible fruit of this plant, or this fruit prepared as a dish.
#: ''We ate '''squash''' and green beans.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[squash beetle]]
* [[squash bug]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|南瓜|tr=nánguā|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kurpitsa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courge}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|स्क्वाश|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tök}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[کودی]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|naayízí}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|squash|m}}, {{t|nb|skvåsj|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|squash|m}}, {{t|nn|skvåsj|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|dynia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кабачок|m}}, {{t|ru|кабачок|m|tr=kabačók|sc=Cyrl}}
* Simplified Chinese: {{tø|zh-cn|南瓜}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|zapallo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|squash|c}}, {{t+|sv|zucchini|c}}, {{t-|sv|courgette|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English terms derived from Algonquian languages]]

===Etymology 3===
shortening of ''[[musquash]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{obsolete|zoo|countable}} [[muskrat|Muskrat]].

----

==French==
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} {{term|squash|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/skwaʃ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{sports|lang=fr}} {{uncountable}} [[#English|squash]]
#: ''Jouer au '''squash'''.''
# squash game
#: ''On s'est fait deux '''squashs''' aujourd'hui.''
# squash court
#: ''La ville a construit trois '''squashs''' municipaux.''

===References===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|en|squash|lang=nb}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/skʋɔʂ/|lang=nb}}, {{X-SAMPA|/skPOs`/|lang=nb}}
* {{rhymes|ɔʂ|lang=nb}}

===Alternative spellings===
* {{term|skvåsj|lang=nb}}

===Noun===
{{head|nb|noun|g=m}}

# [[squash]] (fruit)
# [[squash]] (sport)
# [[squash]] (soft drink)

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m1}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|en|squash|lang=nn}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/skʋɔʂ/|lang=nn}}, {{X-SAMPA|/skPOs`/|lang=nn}}
* {{rhymes|ɔʂ|lang=nn}}

===Alternative spellings===
* {{term|skvåsj|lang=nn}}

===Noun===
{{head|nn|noun|g=m}}

# [[squash]] (fruit)
# [[squash]] (sport)
# [[squash]] (soft drink)

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nn-class=m1}}

[[cy:squash]]
[[de:squash]]
[[et:squash]]
[[fa:squash]]
[[fr:squash]]
[[gl:squash]]
[[ko:squash]]
[[io:squash]]
[[it:squash]]
[[kn:squash]]
[[lt:squash]]
[[hu:squash]]
[[my:squash]]
[[nl:squash]]
[[pl:squash]]
[[pt:squash]]
[[ru:squash]]
[[simple:squash]]
[[fi:squash]]
[[sv:squash]]
[[ta:squash]]
[[te:squash]]
[[tr:squash]]
[[vi:squash]]
[[zh:squash]]