{{also|Appendix:Variations of "st"}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
{{head|mul|symbol}}

First of all this is abbreviated as a location,  address, or a sur-name's tittle. 

Two examples are: Street is st. or St. is saint.  Also any type of abrieviation.

# The [[ISO]] 3166-1 two-letter (alpha-2) code for [[Sao Tome and Principe]].
# [[Saxony-Anhalt]], a federal state of [[Germany]].
# [[Central Sulawesi]], a province of [[Indonesia]].

[[Category:ISO 3166-1]]

----

==English==

===Initialism===
{{rfc-header|Initialism}}
{{head|en|initialism}}

# [[Star Trek]]
#* '''1998''', "Reepicheep", ''Good Bye Star Trek Voyager?'' (on Internet newsgroup ''alt.christnet'')
#*: As references in various articles on my Web site will demonstrate, I do spend time reading publications promoting non-Christian viewpoints. But still '''ST''' is supposed to be entertaining. And I do know of many Christians who have long since stopped watching ST due to the unchristian values sometimes presented...
# [[short ton]]s
# A [[storyteller]], especially in the context of running certain [[tabletop]] [[role-playing]] games.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{lb|en|computing}} [[w:Atari ST|Atari ST]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# Someone who acts as a [[game master]] ([[GM]]) in a [[tabletop]] [[role-playing]] game, especially any of the games produced by [[w:White Wolf|White Wolf]].

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|T's|TS|Ts|t's|ts}}

----

==French==

===Initialism===
{{rfc-header|Initialism}}
{{head|fr|initialism}}

# {{lb|fr|initialism|film}} [[sous-titrée]] — [[subtitled]]; a non-French film with French subtitles

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|fr|S.T.}}, {{l|fr|S. T.}}, {{l|fr|st}}, {{l|fr|s.t.}}, {{l|fr|s. t.}}

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|fr|STA}}
* {{l|fr|STF}}
* {{l|fr|VASTF}}
* {{l|fr|VFSTA}}
* {{l|fr|VOAST}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|fr|VOASTF}}
* {{l|fr|VOFSTA}}
* {{l|fr|VOST}}
* {{l|fr|VOSTA}}
* {{l|fr|VOSTF}}
{{der-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|fr|VO}}
* {{l|fr|VA}}
* {{l|fr|VF}}