==English==

----
'''


   I would like someone that will love and respect me for who I am, that likes
to hold my hand and surprise me with a little kiss when I least expect it,or
give me a wink from across the room to let me know she's thinking about me
or give me a call just to let me know she's thinking about me... Because I
will be doing the same..  I would love someone who is fun to be around, likes to
laugh, joke around, enjoy being outdoors going for long romantic walks, enjoys
looking at the stars at night, and watching the sun set and rise over the ocean.

I am looking for someone that enjoys the simple things in life, just as I do. I
would like to meet someone special that I can grow old with, and that we can
always look into each other's eyes and know that the love between us is just
as wonderful and exciting as the day we met...  I want to love a woman for who
she is, to spoil her, and love her, and let her know just how much she means to
me, by the little things I
 do or say to make her  feel special. while at the same time she treats me in
the same way with love and respect I'm really looking for Someone Honest,
Caring, Romantic, Kind, Posses Great Sense of Humor, Loyal, Affectionate,
Passionate, Understanding, Intelligent, Respectful and Trust Worthy...  I’m
searching for my life long partner to share a Great Life of Love with; romance,
long slow kisses, feeling very special, intimacy, spirituality, pleasurable
communication, dancing, meeting of the minds, opening a door for you, flowers,
traveling and other exciting interests and adventures, A GREAT LIFE of LOVE! I
am one who strongly believes in respect and that without respect, you can’t
experience true love and generate a healthy relationship. I believe in a smaller
“wow” when it is first a friendship and then a larger “Wow” later as it
evolves into a Beautiful Loving committed relationship. I believe it’s not
just what you are like on the
 outside, but more about what you are like on the inside. I’m seeking
friendship first, (no game playing please) with someone who appreciates some of
the same temperaments and interests I enjoy.  That special someone is a woman
with integrity, is spiritually compatible with me, having similar beliefs - and
is responsible, intelligent, has a sense of humour, positive, is clean and neat
in habit and appearance, romantic, passionate about living and loving. I would
prefer that someone to show interest and be supportive of my spiritual work. she
should be financially secure, and has 'been there, done that'.I like an
adventurous person who likes travel, nature and enjoys being home.she is a
woaman who is at peace with himself. I am hoping to connect with people of like
minds to form friendship first and then leave the rest to the Universe.. 
I'm a gentle soul, quiet and certainly not what most people would assume - a
social butterfly.  Instead I'm the quiet
 watchful, listener who will provide you with a listening ear after a tough
day, and not judge, or assume or tell you what to do.  I love nature, and water
and feel an especial kinship to just being near water and having water right
near my home.  I feel the peace of the world in the breeze across the water, the
lapping of the waves on the shore, the unassuming nature of water and nature.  I
am one with nature, and could spend hours just sitting by the beach, river,
lake, ocean and stitch, read, listen to music and feel at the end of a day that
I've had an incredible day...  I am a person who looks beyond what may be
the obvious. Character is worth more than flashiness. I am a person who
appreciates honesty and a great sense of humor. I love to laugh and to enjoy the
simple things in life. I would appreciate a person who has a good sense of who
she is and a sense of direction about where she wants to be. I can appreciate a
woman who sees a man as a
 friend and a partner...  I know that men and women all have an inner child
within and that is why I would appreciate days filled with fun and laughter. I
respect and adhere to taking care of business in life--family, work, community,
etc Yet, I know life involves alance. I look for the good in most situations and
choose to look for the good in others. I know that life involves give and take
and that what you seek--is that you must be willing to give and demonstrate
yourself. I am a romantic at heart. I like to be appreciated and complimented to
which I would do the same for that special someone.....  I like discovering new
things about the person i meet. I am a person who looks for the possibilities
versus what cannot be achieved. life is better going through with a special one
instead of just any one. I like poetry I like trying new things. I respect the
direct approach--that is saying what you mean and meaning what you say. I
believe in smiling--even
 when things are not going as perfect as you had hoped. A smile can brighten
someone's day--I liken smiling--it is one of my trademarks...
I am an honest dependable person  and I want someone I can depend on to talk to
me when I feel disappointed or sad....I want someone that can provide an
emotional balance for me and in return I will give the same.....when things
happen to the one I love I take that seriously and try to focus on a solution to
the problem by talking about it....give and take....I expect the same thing...I
don't believe that is much to ask for.  It keeps things real and most of all
it provides someone in your life you know you can count on..  I am a true
romantic and believe that there is such a thing as a soul mate, but they are not
easily found... out of millions of people those 2 souls must meet by chance and
circumstance. I believe that you should consider your soul mate, your best
friend and be able to talk about any and everything, not feel strange if there
is silence between you. I feel true love and connection doesn't require
constant talking, as a glance or longing
 stare says every thing and more than words could ever convey. I believe in
holding hands, and public displays of affection, as I would want everyone to
know that the person who I am with is truly special to me. I believe that being
able to be your true self with someone with out judgment is one of the best
things in life.
 
I am honest always as there is nothing that I can think of that would make it
wrong. I have a very off beat sense of humor and I am quick with wit, one of the
happiest things to feel is laughter until the tears stream down your cheeks, I
find humor in almost everything, but never take anyone feelings lightly. I am an
astute listener as I also believe that if it is important enough for you to say,
it is important enough for me to listen, and take heed in what is being said. I
too am not a night life person, I prefer to stay home or be someplace special
with my someone special. I am ready to find that someone who can appreciate all
of things I have to offer and accept me as I am. I approach this renewed journey
with caution as my feelings and heart are quick to get the best of my head.
However, once I give them they are true and deep in every sense.  I love ------
so much and I'm trying to raise him to be one of the rare breed out there: 
a gentleman who
 owns his words, who is independent, self-confident, knows his worth, loves
God, treats people, and especially women & older people with respect,
focused, disciplined, be playful, be fun, sense of humor ~ always and be a
warrior with a tender heart .....  I feel all is not fair in love and war. That
is, I feel you should give someone your best and that you should exercise
respect and honesty. I appreciate genuine companionship and soul inspired
relationship. You the one in which you can feel the earth move beneath your feet
with just one kiss. Or, one in which you spend idle moments just thinking about
the other person.....  I like very much how you look.  I will be honest, I
don't ever, not ever look at the outside to learn about someone, I feel the
real person is who is inside.  Oh, of course there has to be some kind of
physical attraction of course but that is not the only part of a person,  I am
good and kind and loving, I am always there to give
 help to anyone who needs it.  I am always told I am too good to everyone else.
But that is my nature and I feel rewarded just knowing I have helped that
someone no matter what it is.  Well I would let you lead me around the room,
introducing me to all your friends.  And then I would try to get to know them
better.  If we were to get parted in the room, I would very romatically look
over at you through the crowd and smile at you very softly and then think to
myself, you are all mine and I am so lucky to be going home with you and how
passionate the love is going to be when we get home.
I wouldn't hang on to you desprately because I think that makes poeple feel
smothered,  I would expect you to get me a drink though before leaving me alone
with any of your friends.A glass of wine would be great.
                                                         FOR IM MAGA
Hi pretty@};-@};-, how are you doing..  I'm William, I hope you get this IM
and it finds you well, I was glancing through profiles when your gorgeous
picture got me attracted while your lovely words had me write you, I really was
marveled reading your profile and i enjoyed doing so... The first thing that
came to my mind when i saw your picture was..'WOW..you're drop  dead 
GORGEOUS.. Lol... So i  thought i would take out time to introduce myself.:x
                                            
                                                      ABOUT ME AND MY MATCH
I am sweet, thoughtful, kind,  and have a great sense of humor. I am very easy
going and laid back. I am often told that I am very easy to talk with. I am not
an angry person, and I am not interested in someone that is. Having past events
shape your life is one thing, carrying the past as a burden that sits heavily
upon your shoulders is not the way I view life. I am happy with myself, and my
life, and I like to think it shows. I have a wonderful Son. I would do best with
someone that isn't extremely uptight, unless of course you are willing to
learn to let things go! I love to try new things, and can laugh at myself when I
fail miserably. I don't give up easily, and have so many things I've yet
to try. Please love to laugh and have fun, what is better than laughing so hard
your stomach hurts?!
I love traveling, going on unknown adventures, and trying something I thought I
never would. I'll try anything once, well,  but fun none the less! I take
pride in my appearance, but am not high maintenance. I love a nice dinner out,
but staying home, having chines food after a day spent working together on a
completely dirty, yet fulfilling project, can be so much fun with the right
person.
Being honest and open is very important to me and I expect my match to feel the
same way. I am not a game player, and I don't have any interest in dating
one. I do however, make exceptions for board game lovers.
I am very creative and artistic. I love working on my house and digging in my
gardens, I have no problem getting dirt under my nails. I believe in a best
friend to spend my life with, and if it takes awhile and I meet new friends
along the way, that's a good thing too. Please have an adventurous silly
side, although I can be very sophisticated when necessary, life isn't as
much fun if you subdue your inner child all the time.  I loved my ex-wife so
much and she cheated on me with a very good friend of mine!! That made me not to
keep friends alot, My son James is my best friend, and since i got divorced my
ex- haven't come visiting her son, It been a very long time now and i dont
ever know where she is at this time!!.
I was born in Germany dad died when i was 6years old, my mom was from the UK so
she had to take me there, I grew up in the UK spent almost all my life there,
and i just came back to the state 7years ago after i lost my mom, I'm the
only child of my parents. James is all i have now and i really want a woman who
will love and also take care of him like he were her own son!  Well i want you
to know that i'm presently out of the state!! I'm presently in west
africa for a building contract and will be coming back home in a couple of week
time, I know the time i will be staying down here will help the both of us to
get to know more about each other an see if we can make a good match for each
other!! I know that such a beautiful woman as beautiful as you men will be
coming for you from all over the world so tell me how many man you have talked
to from Over here!! West Africa?
                                                               
I'm a straight and easy going person with a kind and gentle heart full of
love..I love to travel and would love a partner to travel with me. I have been a
workaholic in that past but last year I had a change of attitude and decided to
live life now. I might live to be a 100 years old or my time could end tomorrow.
Rather than wait and miss life I want to take advantage while I have the
opportunity in front of me.
My friends/coworkers will tell you that I am a shy person. I can be picky but I
really believe that love is out of our control. I cannot create a spark or stop
a spark. There is either a connection or not. I have met people online or via
telephone conversations and they seem great but when we meet there is no
chemistry or connection. It is not all about looks especially as we get older
but none-the-less there has to be a physical attraction. A personality can make
someone cuter or uglier as you get to know them.
Profiles help but lack personal interaction and feedback that can only come
through emails if people are honest and the the true test comes at eventual
Trusting each other
Long profiles are boring and we are too busy to read long drawn out
introductions so I will shut up. If you want me to keep talking then send me an
email  and I will respond even if it is a Thanks, but no thanks.                
                                  WHAT I DO FOR FUN
I am honest, dependable, loving, gentle, affectionate and have good friendship.
I feel that a WOMAN is GOD's undeserved gift to MAN and she is supposed to
be loved, reverenced, protected, respected, and cherished..I enjoy the outdoors,
esp the beach. Walking on the beach at night,waves crashing restlessly, a
million stars in the sky,, ahhh perfect for me. I also like dining out, plays,
movies, art.Im pretty flexible as far as activities.. I like
fishing,camping,reading,going to the movies,hanging around with friends,cracking
jokes,listening to music,dancing, and also spending time with someone
interesting.                                                      LOVE MAIL
Here in my heart, that´s where you will be, you will be with me, here in my
heart, No distance can keep us apart as long as you´re here in my heart I know
when i come back every thing will be alright, the distance will keep us apart.
But distance no matter how far can't change these feelings in my heart,Time
may take us apart that's true, but I will always be there for you,
You're in my heart, you will be in my dreams, no matter the miles between
us.These lonely nights are hard to get through, I will keep you in my eyes by
making you a dream.
I love you
                                                  
                                                     
                                                       
                                                                               
 FOR ANYOTHER SITE
Hi pretty,
       How are you doing?I'm William ...I hope you get this email and it
finds you well.I was glancing through profiles when your gorgeous picture got me
attracted while your lovely words had me winked you..lol.I really was marveled
reading your profile and i enjoyed doing so.The first thing that came to my mind
when i saw your picture was..'WOW..you're drop dead ..GORGEOUS. lol.
so.. i thought i'ld take out time to introduce myself.
I'm a gentle hearted man, I like making friends because friends are the
best. Love is not about body stature, but its all about what is in the
heart.what I care about is you are beautiful and I wish to be the man you've
always wanted and I'm sure you and I would work things nicely being
..together My.. personality traits are Simple, honest, cheerful.I like these
kinds of music Romantic music,Rock,and souls. I've been divorced for about
5years now and I wish to settle down now to find a real Love.I have a
Son,.I'm proud to be his father. I'm into Construction, a building
contractor, but right now I'm presently in west Africa Nigeria execute a
contract with a beinart companies and the contract that i am executing here is a
very large one, I'm getting back to relocate with my dream one . I believe
the time that i will be spending down here will help us to get to know more
about each other.. And maybe we could plan on meeting when i get back home.. 
Nothing
 is more beautiful than you wearing only the moonlight and my kisses. You are
so pretty that I believe God spent extra time creating you.I like holding hands
walking together side by side and sharing love vows and I see you as a woman I
would love to do that with and cuddle with my woman.I also like playing Chess
and Football at my leisure Time.I've learn't to respect beauty very well
thats why I am willing to respect you.. So all that matters is for the two
hearts to be together somewhere,somehow,someday.I am a simple man, I don't
like night life, I prefer living under the sun light, going to seaside or stay
at home with a sweet kind girl. I hate falsity and lies.I would love to chat
with you on my yahoo instant messenger ID waterfalls1162 or email me with stephen42pm@yahoo.co.in am looking forward hearing from you soon.Thank you and
God bless you.
Thanks..........  Hi Pretty,   How are you doing today? My name is William and
i am new on this network,I hope you get this email and it finds you well.. I was
glancing through profiles when your gorgeous picture got me attracted while your
lovely words had me write you, just came across your profile and just could not
get my eyes off it,so i decided to leave you a short note,i am sure you do not
need a mirror to tell you how pretty and attractive you are,i would be doubting
if you were single if your profile had not said so,how about we talk and get to
know each other?I am a single parent with a 6 years old daughter,i have had her
since she was little,and now i feel this is a good time to have someone to share
the good things of life with,including adventure and laughter..   I am a true
romantic and believe that there is such a thing as a soul mate, but they are not
easily found... out of millions of people those 2 souls must meet by chance and
 circumstance. I believe that you should consider your soul mate, your best
friend and be able to talk about any and everything, not feel strange if there
is silence between you. I feel true love and connection doesn't require
constant talking, as a glance or longing stare says every thing and more than
words could ever convey. I believe in holding hands, and public displays of
affection, as I would want everyone to know that the person who I am with is
truly special to me. I believe that being able to be your true self with someone
with out judgment is one of the best things in life..   I'm proud to be her
father. I'm into Construction, a building contractor, but right now I'm
presently in the west Africa Nigeria execute a contract with a beinart companies
and the contract that i am executing here is a very large one, I'm getting
back to relocate with my dream one . I believe the time that i will be spending
down here will help us to get to know more
 about each other.. And maybe we could plan on meeting when i get back home..  
I am not sure how often i can get on here but i do check my e-mail very often,if
you would like to give me a chance to be your friend, You can IM me on my yahoo
IM with skylimit1062 .. Or email me with  or
inforeseach@ymail.com even if it just to say Hi and i will email you back
with a picture of me because i dont have my picture on here... write me when you
can.   Have a wonderful day. 
stephen    
Hi pretty,
      How are you doing?I'm William ...I hope you get this email and it
finds you well.I was glancing through profiles when your gorgeous picture got me
attracted while your lovely words had me write you..lol.I really was marveled
reading your profile and i enjoyed doing so.The first thing that came to my mind
when i saw your picture was..'WOW..you're dropm dead  GORGEOUS.lol.so i
thought i'ld take out time to introduce myself.  I'm a gentle hearted
man, I like making friends because friends are the best. Love is not about body
stature, but its all about what is in the heart. what I care about is you are
beautiful and I wish to be the man you've always wanted and i'm sure you
and I would work things nicely being together.My personality traits are Simple,
honest, cheerful.I like these kinds of music Romantic music,Rock,and souls.
I've been divorsed for about 3years now and I wish to settle down now to
find a real Love.I have A Son,.I'm proud to be her
 father.  Nothing is more beautiful than you wearing only the moonlight and my
kisses. You are so pretty that I believe God spent extra time creating you.I
like holding hands walking together side by side and sharing love vows and I see
you as a woman I would love to do that with and cuddle with my woman.I also like
playing Chess and Football at my leisure Time.I've learnt to respect beauty
very well thats why I respect you.. So all that matters is for the two hearts to
be together somewhere,somehow,someday.I am a simple man, I don't like night
life, I prefer living under the sun light, going to seaside or stay at home with
a sweet kind girl. I hate falsity and lies.I would love to chat with you on my
instant messenger is from watherfalls inforeseach@ymail.com am looking forward hearing
from you soon.Thank you and God bless you.
Thanks..........
...............................................................................
Hello Pretty,
    How are you? I am just clicking to say you look great and wonderful.And i
would like to express myself to you. My name is William , I am 46 years old
single and looking. 1 Son debbie 15 yrs , And i dont have family have lost
everybody in a plane crash while they are leaving on vacation to hamburg in
germany My Nationality is German Irish , and i am the only child of my
parent's. i am building contractor and i also construst underground
trianage, i am presently in nigeria to execute a contract with a beinart
companies and the contract that i am executing here is a very large and a good
contract i am getting back to relocate with my dream one .
 I am a confident, articulate, successful professional that is seeking the
exceptional partner. Athletic, Adventurous, and Romantic individual that enjoys:
working out, music, movies, laughter, hombody and spontaneous . Or, join me in
the kitchen and have a glass of wine while I prepare dinner and we'll share
deep stimulating conversation. Further exploring the mental chemistry between
us. A relationship that ends up where it's supposed to is what I seek. If
that's a serious relationship, good friends or great lovers, I am prepared
for the next encounter life has to offer me.
 A friendship that is uninhibited and pure fun is what i'm about.
Locations, settings and chemistry that will arouse all your senses and moments
shared that cross your mind a week later while at the office. Putting a smile on
your face while wondering when it's possible to feel like that again is the
sensation I aim to leave you with. I want a woman that I can trust without
question and who can trust me the same. A woman whose loves me for my heart and
soul. We would be like two vases of water poured into one larger more beautiful
vase, in which we would be one. Holding each other, breathing each other,
tasting each other as we watch the sun rise and set in each others arms.
 Laughing, crying, singing, praying, playing, working together to make life fun
and safe for each other. I have not found that yet, but I am eternally hopeful.
Maybe I am just a helpless romantic, man but hope is what gets us out of bed
each morning to face the day. I have no physical or mental baggage and strive
everyday to be a better man for myself. Karma, Kindness, Family, Loyalty and
Honesty are important realities in my lifestyle. If we are meant to be, even
geography couldn't keep us apart. sorry i need a devoted christian that i
could lay my life to i need a woman that care alot about the Lord,Please click
on my profile and let me know if you have intrest in me ,and Together we
inspired Lines of creativity Heart to heart love Each sharing the key,if you are
interested in corresponding some more. IM me on skylimit116 I am
online right now if you would like to chat with me and know more about me .
ooking forward hearing from you
 soon.Thank you and God bless you.
Thanks.......
peter
............................................
                                                          
My perfect first date: 
The perfect first date for me would be a quiet intimate dinner somewhere
romantic where we spend the evening getting to know each other by conversation
that just seem to endlessly flow and before too long we realize that hours have
passed yet it only seemed like minutes. We would never want the night to end.
The night would possibly end with a romantic kiss and we would both go home and
think of each other till we fell asleep.   My ideal relationship:
An ideal relationship for me would be one where be both respect and show one
another that we care for each other. It would be loving and intimate. We would
do things for each other because that it what we want.to please each other. It
should not be stressfulit should be mutual, honest, caring and loving
I'm William ,46yrs i stand 6'0 and about 190lbs. Dark brown hair /blue
eyes,short hairs.I was born and raised in Uk,England, i attended a college had
my asociates' degree Construction/Craft Building/Technolgy Infor/ Management
Systems..I'm very laid-white and down-to-earth. I'm also very
old-fashioned when it comes to my respect and treatment for women.I'm a
social wine drinker but a non-smoker,have a great sence of humor and like to
spend time with someone i Love, and loved ones.........  My Traits are
Optimistic, Adventurous, Happy, Kind, loyal, modest, Friendly, Forward Thinking,
Innovative, Reliable, Honest, Kind, Romantic, Funny, Confident with great
Business Scene, Reliable, Committed, Responsible, Communicative, sensitive,
gentle, optimistic, Intelligent, Purposeful, I try to be Gentleman at all times.
 I like all these below, Pop, rock, country, Classical ,Novels, history,
Honest, loyal, devoted, romantic, sincere, dependable, strong, adventurous,
poetic, passionate, social, intelligent, professional. Exercises, Visiting
Friends, Water Sports, Snow Skiing, Fly Fishing, Camping, Dancing, Movies,
Plays, and I love to Travel. Dance club, jazz, european electro lounge, classic
rock, pop, classical, eclectic. Spy novels or professional trade materials.
Sailing, walking, boating, cycling, cooking.
 I like to spend a lot of time in the outdoors, Camp, Fly fishing, Water
Skiing, Snow Skiing, Rock Climbing, I like to take walks, I workout most days.
I'm 6"0" tall 216 pounds and in great shape.  I'm going to be
honest and straight forward about what I'm looking for. One I don't play
game please don't with me, I am what I am, I expect the same. I'm a
strong professional businessman and in life. I work hard but at the same time I
enjoy life so when I play I like to play hard. I’m working on a part of me
that I seem to have a hard time with patience’s, not one of my virtues in
life. I do know this I think I’m finally starting get it.  If you’re looking
for honesty, caring, a family man, loving, a man who loves this Life, a man who
has a love for life, then you have a great man here.I travel a lot, so you need
to want to see the world some. I have been blessed with one wonderful son thats
James the best kid in the world to work with, just need my
 full time partner…lol  I like blue and white and yellow personalities,
sometime reds. If you’re between the ages of 34 to 60, 5:0” to 6:4 Athletic,
average and big and beautifull if you’re honest about what average is, yes I
think ladies think average is different then what a man thinks average is. Yes
I’m a man, and I’m honest about it, lol, at the same time I need to be
honest, otherwise it’s just a game, if you’re full of life, if your honest
about were you are, you have mended yourself from your past loves and hurts in
life, if you understand commitment, and you love conversation then you may have
found a great guy.  Please, please be honest, being single is hard for all of
us, no one wants to be alone in life, if you fall for me or some one online
understand we are older and understand what we are looking for, but though we
know this about ourselves, and even though we may fall for someone fast, a
relationship takes time to build.
 So take your time enjoy getting to know each other. Let’s have some fun and
get to know each other.  This has taken me years to learn, and I’m still
learning. I do know this there are five things that are needed in a relationship
of love, “Quality time, words of affirmation, gifts, acts of service, and
physical touch, any of these without the others make it harder but knowing these
areas about each other help us grow closer and understand each other so that a
relationship will grow, and stay alive after marriage for eternity if we work at
it.A few of my word and thoughts, if you can understand these words then you can
understand who I am, and what I’m looking for in this eternal life, just
don’t want to do it alone.  More about me: I’m an outgoing building
contractor dedicated to enjoying family and good friends. I think of me as
responsible, intelligent, passionate, social and fun, not necessarily in that
order. Dinner with friends, movies,
 dancing, walking, cooking out, listening to diverse music, reading, traveling
and sailing are some activities I really enjoy. My work at jisecureit is
challenging and rewarding but seeing my children having fun, accomplishing a
goal or enjoying dad-time gives me ultimate happiness.
 
I believe peace to be having quality time with a companion, pursuing her
activity or mine. I’m extremely proud of my educational and professional
accomplishments and seeing how well my two children have turned out. Our perfect
first date could be a casual dinner in a delightful restaurant, uninterrupted,
to talk, get to know one another better. If you enjoy our first date, maybe I
could cook for you next.  I want to meet a nice, attractive, socially outgoing
woman who is happy, friendly, dependable, and loyal. You are passionate,
affectionate and devoted in a relationship, placing priority on family, good
friends, health and personal well-being. Your main priorities are not material
but you aren’t afraid to indulge because you deserve it. You like sports,
travel, have solid self-esteem, personal worth and enjoy a compliment.  You are
morally centered, honest, completely devoted and loyal in a committed
relationship. (I also expect this of me). You
 love being treated like a lady by a true gentleman and tirelessly pursue the
passion and romance of a life with your companion. You and I communicate, enjoy
talking to one another, being together, loving each other. Our relationship is
easy and fun because we try, we care, and we belong together.
Soul-mate, you are out there. I patiently search and when we find one another,
you will enjoy a good, loyal, romantic, passionate, God-fearing, devoted
family-man, lover and best friend.  Forever I beg to be counted among the crowds
who behold your splendor  for angels conspired to paint you A masterpiece,
forever displayed in the gallery of my heart
and yet amongst the hoards of those more deserving I find only me a speck of
dust in a mountain of humanity,for I raise my voice to the heavens in awe as
angels saw fit to bind together a woman so perfect and an undeserving man,but
still I grasp love's jagged thorn endure its pain and smile  safe in the
knowledge that I have given with certitude my heart as you travel through the
depths of my being to meet at a place where our hearts.  I can dwell as you
search for my soul I will take you there where bodies grow old but the love in
our heart will always burn and when the master beckons I will look in your eyes
to wipe away a tear with a final kiss as we begin our journey to eternity I have
to travel some 8 to 10 times a year. Most all of our work is over seas; I may be
gone every 6 to 8 weeks on a trip for about 7 to 14 days each time. I love to
travel if you’re my sweetheart I hope you would enjoy traveling and seeing the
world some because I sure
 don’t want to go to all these wonderful parts of the world alone.  I am
looking for the "real deal" rather than a "quick fix.Age group of
a partner: 34 to 60 My perception of an ideal relationship: Ideal relationship
is one that both of us spend our energy caring for each other. Quality Time,
Words of Affirmation, Gifts, Act of Service, Physical Touch, Love, romantic time
together everyday, caring for each other sexual needs as any loving couple
should, communication, support and Christian values are the core of our
relationship. Commitment is a must, I only want to do this one more time, so
please have commitment as a top priority.    2.  If you were taken by your date
to a party where you knew no one, how would you respond?   ( 3.)  How often do
you lose your temper?   ( 4.  When in a relationship, how much personal space do
you generally find you need?   
 5.  If you had to characterize the end of most of your romantic relationships,
they would be described as:   ( 6.  Which of the following marriage issues do
you fear most?   ( 7.  How important is chemistry to you?   
 8.  Which of the following scenarios would make you more nervous?   ( 9.  How
many books did you read last year?   
 10.  When going somewhere:   ( 11.  Which of the following indoor activities
sounds like the most fun to you?   
 12.  What best describes your parents' relationship towards each other:  
( 13.  What best describes your attitude toward work?    14.  Where do you see
yourself living in 15 years?   ( 15.  If you were to marry, how many children
would be ideal?   
 16.  Your idea of adventure is:   ( 17.  On Saturday night, would you rather
go to:   
 18.  What kind of exercise do you prefer?   ( 19.  If you went out to eat with
a friend, which of the following would you prefer?   
 20.  If you could take a dream getaway, where would you most likely choose to
spend a week?   ( 21.  Your idea of a romantic time would be:   ( 22.  What
style of dress do you prefer?   ( 23.  Which of the following quirks would
bother you most about your partner?   ( 24.  Would you rather date someone who
is:   ( 25.  What is your opinion of committed long distance relationships?   (
26.  What do you think of "Soul Mates?"   
 27.  How important is it to you that your partner be accepted by your family
and friends?   ( 28.  How many years have you lived alone?   ( 29.  How romantic
are you?   ( 30.  Do you enjoy being alone?   
 31.  How trusting are you?   ( 32.  Which of the following things would you
rather have lots of?   
 33.  Which sort of date sounds like the most fun to you?   ( 34.  How
organized are you?   
 35.  With which sentence do you agree most?   ( 36.  How do you feel about
relocating for a relationship?   ( 37.  What is your opinion of traditional
gender roles?   ( 38.  Do you consider yourself an ambitious person?   ( 39. 
When in a relationship, are you a jealous person?   ( 40.  How do you feel about
premarital sex?   ( 41.  Financially, how would you characterize yourself?   
 42.  How much ongoing stress do you have in your life?   ( 43.  How would you
assess your verbal intimacy skills?   
 44.  Realizing that labels are imperfect, do you consider yourself a dominant
person in your personal life?   ( 45.  Do you consider yourself physically
affectionate when involved in a relationship?   ( 46.  How do you feel about
food?   
 47.  How often do you find yourself laughing?   ( 48.  Do you enjoy debating
the issues of the day with your partner?   (49.  Outside of a romantic
relationship, are you competitive?  ( 50.  How often do you exercise?   (51.  If
I had a bad day, what is the first thing you would do for me?   ( 52. 
What's your philosophy on travel?   ( 53.  Are pets an important part of
your life?   
 54.  Are you a passionate person?   ( 55.  What are your body-type preferences
for your mate?   ( 56.  What is your opinion on your mate having opposite sex
friendships?   ( 57.  In a marriage how would you feel if the woman made
significantly more money than the man? 
 
I thought my ex love me, but she had to break my heart for me to know what true
love really is. I believe the best thing about loving and being hurt is that you
get to know what true love really is. For as gold is tested in fire, and so will
love be perfected in pain, - Love, an emotion so strong that you would give up
everything. To just feel it once, to know that you are part of something
special. To know that you can feel what love really is; to know, to feel, to
love - To love someone is to understand each other, to laugh together, to smile
with your heart and to trust one another. One important thing is to let each
other go if you can't do this... i hope you understand all that, I'm
searching for TRUE LOVE.William.  food - I love southern "soul food" -
italian - thai - chinese - turkish..  favorite fast food - pizza with fresh moz
and basil drizzled with olive oil.. classics - that maltese falcon - the good
earth - deception - mildred pierce - also
 action and drama - love real life stories and documentaries...and stupid move
that makes me laugh so hard I think I am going to pee myself...Ice Cream - black
raspberry - logan berry - strawberry - chocolate 
===================================================================
Dear ,
I have tried a million times to put into words how I feel for you. It's so
hard to describe such an intense emotion. I knew from the day we met, that you
were meant for me.  There are so many expressions of our love: the gentleness of
 the way you've touched me, how a smile lights up my face when I hear your
voice, and how my body responds to your voice, how happy I'm when I'm
talking to you - you make me who I'm.  There was a huge void in my life
until you came along. I thank God everyday for leading us to each other. You
complete me. I think back to how empty my life was without you, and I am so
grateful that you are here.
I can't wait to spend forever with you. You are my life, my love, my soul
mate, my heart, and my reason for breathing. I love you , with everything I am. 
Love always,  As the days pass, my love for you grows more and more everyday.
When your telling me that you love me, I feel better for who I am because I got
you everyday. All my life was a disaster, but when you appear in my life, my
disaster turn into happiess because you appear. I belive in you, your the light
in my deepest, darkest hour, your the key to my very soul, you are my savior
when I fall. In your arms I found my paradise. As 1000 years would past, I would
fall in love with you again. You are my only chance for happiness, if I lose you
now I know I would die. If I can't have you, I don't want nobody else
baby girl, your more than a woman, more than a woman to me,I love you....  You
speak what I feel and to know that the intense emotions run the same through me
as they do you.  I can not explain what is happening between you and I, I just
know that there is a reason for why we are here and if it is for each other,
then I will not let go.  Its
 amazing that you think the way that I do for I have had the most unhappy 5
years of my life and for some reason the events of today have taken me to you. 
If this is what love is, then may I feel it forever, for it fills me with want
and desire again and for that I am truly thankful.
 
I tried not to feel the way that i'm feeling right now with you for I did
not know who you were but began to desire your touch,  and your smile. I need
you to know that you complete me babe and this stirring desire of passion and
want is what love is all about.  I will be here for you, waiting till the day
that I will be in your arms forever.  Take me as I am, as I will do the same for
you.  Love me for who I am and know that I am yours. And can not wait to tell
you those words, to see the passion in your eyes, and the love that you will
have forever.  You're everything I dreamed of A woman after God's heart
So kind and compassionate Beyond your rugged exterior Is a sweet and gentle
spirit You walked in when others walked out My peace in the midst of the storm
You are my best friend I could not ask for more The perfect gentlelady You could
teach others a thing or two About how to treat a guy And what the word respect
means
  
I've never felt so special So much love and tenderness You take care of me
like no one else can You love me for who I am We have a spiritual connection A
bond that cannot be broken You understand my struggles and my pain Your support
of my dreams is so encouraging I love talking to you and i would love Strolling
hand in hand on a country road Enjoying nature and its breathtaking beauty
You're so funny You make my heart smile The joy you bring I can't
explain I just know it feels good God gave me my heart's desire When He sent
you.  Hey Sweetheart,
    My reason for writing to you was just to let the feelings flow. This is to
the one I care for.Everyday, I fall over and over heels for  you again and again
... as the time goes on and a new day shows, your presence enlarges and my
feelings grows. I just wanted to thank you for sharing and making me laugh.
Thanks for being the most awesome girl a guy would ask for. Thanks for the warm
moments, caring times, and loving experiences. Thanks for understanding me and
most importantly, thanks for just being there for once I have found someone who
stands besides me and not over me and I'm so lucky to have you.  There are
so many reasons; so many causes that make me love you. Thanks for all the
happiness you bestow upon me. Thanks for making me see what I don't see.
Thanks for camouflaging my faults. Thanks for tolerating my idiosyncrasies and
playing along with them. Thanks for making me overexcited... Darling, I have
really missed you today. I kept thinking
 of you, the wonderful flutters I get in the pit of my stomach when I talk to 
you, the tender encouraging words and advice you give to me. You are so open to
love. It's hard to describe the emotion churning inside of me.  There are
many things that I regret ... the greatest is that we didn't meet sooner But
I thank God we did meet. No matter what happens, just know that I really do care
deepl for you and, Sweetheart, I wish you were here with me..
 
Missing and thinking about you...
William..  Every day that passes, my feelings for you grows.  You are my dream
come true and I can't wait to spend forever in your arms, get lost in your
eyes, be warmed by your smile, melt with every kiss, and fall deeper in love
when we make love.  It has been the most amazing 5 months of my life and
I've already done things I have yet to actually realize. We have come a very
long way and stuck by each other's side through a lot of pain. You have
shown me what its like to love and be loved and that's my happiness.
It's all I need to have the most amazing life I can possibly have, and thank
you for it....  You've helped me understand a lot of things people don't
think I understand or think that I'm allowed to understand which is what is
making me a very strong person. I have a lot more respect for love and people
who have it. To be mature, you have to be an adult. But to be in love, you have
to be nothing but a human being with a heart. That is very
 much true. No one should prevent theirself from falling in love with someone.
You can't stop love, and you defiantly shouldn't put your own feelings
on hold because someone is telling you "You're not allowed to love
him/her because you're too young." I love you and I'm not going to
be putting my feelings on hold to wait until my ANYONE thinks its okay to love
you. You are everything to me, my life really, and I'm not going to give
that up. I can't live without a life with you....  Honey, you are one of a
kind and how people can say the things they do about you is beyond me. I
don't understand why people don't see you the way I do. In my eyes, you
are the most amazing person. You understand me and care about me more than
anyone else has ever even thought about. You are so caring, and wonderful.
You're lovely. We have a healthy relationship that is going to last a life
time because you and I are willing to work at anything that needs to be worked
at. We
 communicate and even if sometimes it's hard to tell each other are
feelings we still understand them when they aren't being talked about. We
have that being of singing when we're not talking. We sing love, that song
that is stuck in your head and never seems to disappear until you have stopped
loving that person. But it never gets boring, never gets old. It has new rhythms
every time I see you; it starts over every time I hear you. and it repeats every
time I think of you. It's something I've grown too. Something that I
adjusted to and I won't ever leave it....  -----------, we are going to make
our lives amazing along with one another. We are going to have an amazing family
and an amazing home to live in. I know now that what we have is so very truer
because I can see myself in you. I can see us in you, in your eyes. Those
beautiful eyes of yours shine every time I love at your gorgeous picture, or our
eyes meet. It electrifies me - my whole being. I
 wrote this letter to you from my heart. From mine to yours. I LOVE YOU, Honey
- FOREVER.... 
Yours lovely,
stephen


   Good Morning sweetheart,
        How are you doing this morning? hope you had a good night sleep, I went
to sleep last night with a smile because I knew I would be dreaming of you- But
i woke up this morning so sad because you were not here with me.. I miss you so
much and i know you will be sleeping by now..I could say that you complete
me...but that would be a lie, because every morning when I wake I long for you
more than the day before... You have no idea how good it feels to wake up every
morning knowing  that there is a possibility that you can be mine...Like the
sunshine in the morning, may this brighten your day, and remind you that
you're thought of in a very warm way..You are the first thing to enter my
mind in the morning and the last thing to leave my heart at night...   This is
to let you know that I'm thinking of you each and every passing second of
the day..I sure hope that tells you how I'm also feeling about you-
You're my heaven sent, I could never ask for
 anything more... You're all my prayers in one answer, I just wish you were
here with me this morning, I'm aching more and more every passing day. I
need to start getting thing ready for work.. I will talk to you later on the
day.. take care of yourself at work for me and know that you're being
thought of in a soft and warm way.. I will miss you..
Kisses and hugs.
William.  Good morning sweetheart..     Hope you had a good night sleep,I wish
I was there to hold you tight instead of just send this loving, Good morning..
Just wanted to let you know that i'm thinking about you so much and looking
forward talking to you, You're in my head every second i just dont know what
you have done to me.. I go to bed with your thought running through my head and
i wake up with your thight running through my head.. I love you so dearly and i
hope this is heading to forever...   I never believed i could love someone this
quick but i guess it just happened somewhere along the way, You're and have
always been my dream come true and i will forever be greatful... Just promise
never to break my heart then i'm all your.. I will take care of your heart
like no man has ever.. just wait until i get back home..
I dream of you when I'm asleep, you even appear when I'm awake
daydreaming. There is no escaping you. I just wish it was true.. All that I am,
all that I see, all that I dream and do are brighter, more beautiful and
meaningful, because of my feelings for you, i want so much to have you here with
me now.. I will talk to you online now..
Love you
stephen

  Sharon, you have changed my life completely. You're the one who
makes me beautiful. You're the one who makes me strong. You're the one
who makes me so important; you're everything to me....  You show your love
to me every day and even every minute when we are chatting. How lucky I am to
find a woman like you. Thank God above us! Honey, please forgive me for not
giving you enough time to chat with me, but I promise I will compensate you one
day with the thing that you want the most ... you know what it is?
All that I can offer you is a family. A family that belongs to us; a family
where we can share our ups and down and stay together till the day we die.
Honey, that's all I can give ... I hope you like it.  I really wish that you
were near me, and when I needed help, you would appear and help me. I want to do
the same for you too. However, knowing that you love me so much is enough and if
I can be your lover/husband and your children's dad then this would make me
proud for the next 50 or 60 years. Remember, you need to take care of me for 50
or 60 years and so you've got to take good care of yourself to do it.
you're the only one that I want..
Love always
stephen


   Things could not be any better than having you in my life. You are my
inspiration and my shoulder to cry on, you're the one who stands by me
through everything and most of all, you make me know that I am loved. There is
no one that completes me the way that you do. You mean everything to me.
There is nothing that I would not do for you and there is no one else I would
want to share my life with. You are the reason I get up each morning and come to
work, and you make me look at life with a new perspective. I have never met
anyone as wonderful as you. I really miss you.  There are so many things that I
am grateful for I can't even count. You have been there for me through thick
and thin and I thank you for giving me that opportunity to get to know you and
for always being there for me. You mean so much to me, it's so unbelievable
that I have someone such as you. Even when I am down you are there for me.
Things have been so hectic that I could not have wanted anyone to be there for
me but you. You have been the stability in my life and this is just a note to
let you know that I love you.  Baby, you are my sun, my moon, my whole universe.
I love you for who you are and what you make of me when I am with you.there has
never been anyone in my life
 whom I could have depended on through the tough times in my life. There are
many times when you've taken what I was feeling upon yourself and I feel
that it is not necessary, but I thank you for it, and I know now that I am
important to you. There has never been a love that I could call love in the
relationships I've had. There are so many things that I can thank you for
but that will be impossible for me to do because there are so many ....  Baby, I
really think that this time it is for real. No one can replace you and if
anything happens to you, I don't know what I'd do without you. You are
the one person that I love dearly. You are my life and everything revolves
around you. You seem to hold my whole life in your hands. You always make the
whole room light up when you sign in, as soon as i see you online i have a very
big smile on my face and the room just light up, lol, and you just know how to
be my star, but you're not my star ... you are my
 angel. Babe, there's nothing in this world that I would not do for you..
I love you
 
If only you knew, how my heart overflows with love for you. If only you could
see the way you fill my hopes and dreams. You're the owner of my heart, the
ruler supreme. Even in the dark of night, I have only to think about you to feel
your loving light and from this world I drift feeling as if I will never touch
the ground again... If only you knew.  If only you could guess how I hear your
voice when others speak, for you hold the key to my happiness, and it's
always you my soul seeks. If only you could feel, how your very presence has the
power to heal, all the wounds inside me. You've made me abandon the pain of
yesterday, and you've shown me that the past can no longer stand in the way
of what I hope to achieve... If only you knew.  If only you could realize the
way you've shown me that it's better to give than to take, and whatever
I do, I do for your sake. I'm willing to give you my all and expect nothing
in return. But, oh how I yearn for you... if
 only you knew....  I took a bath today.  i started to think of you taking a
bath with me.  i ran the water with bubble bath and made room for you,  it was
not hard since our bodies fit together so nicely in all situations.  we wash
each others faces and follow the wash with showers of kisses.  we press our
faces together and we move our bodies closer togehter in the tub.   you raise
your knees and i wrap my legs around ur waist.  you feel something arising from
the water and look down to see my hard, smooth cock.  I smile at me and blush. i
ask you if you wanted to make love in the tub.  you nod and whisper in my ear
that you are so horny for me. you run your hands along my shaft with bubbles and
i moan.  I ask you to wash the rest of my body. 
 
You tell me to turn around and sit on my knees. I do so and you wash my sweet
bum and ass hole. i ask what u are going to do and you tell me to wash you in
the same way.You turn around and i wash your pussy very gently and your ass
hole.  we then start to grab your breasts from behind and squeeze them.  you
reach back and stroke my cock.  I push over more and open your bum. ....  I lick
and suck on your ass hole and you moan and cannot handle it.  I then open your
legs more from behind and suck on your pussy.  i keep going until you cum all
over my face.after that, you wash my face and sit in front of you.  you stare
deeply into my eyes and climb on top of me.  you put my cock inside you and let
it slide down inside you.  i pull your legs up and its to too slipery after
working you for a good ....30 minutes non stop and very hard.  i pick you up and
place you on the bathroom rug,  you climb on top of me and fuck me while looking
in my eyes.  you are
 pushing my bum deeper inside you.  We both cum and u collapse on top of me. 
when we catch our breath and then we climb back into the bathtub and wash every
crevice of each others body.  u dry me off and i dry u off and then i carry you
naked to our bed.we fall asleep together and i tell u that u are the only real
lover i have ever truely had and loved.. 
Imagine.... I inadvertently lick my lips moistening them as if in anticipation
of the sweetness of your essence. Pulling my bottom lip up and running my teeth
across as to devour every drop. Ambrosia.... my lips pucker and then release, as
I wish I could taste you. Licking incessantly hoping that one of the times I
will be there, feeding me every drop, as I look up at you and smile for
satisfying my hunger.
 
As each minute passes I feel the moistness ebbing from the depths of my being,
readying myself for what's to come. I imagine your embrace. A touch that
sends shivers down my spine, and the soft kisses that tickle my skin and sends
me into a fairy tale all my own. I imagine your tenderness, and you holding my
hands in yours interlacing our fingers to steady yourself as you move
rhythmically to our heartbeats, and I close my eyes and imagine.
 
I imagine ......I hear the tender words of affection you whisper to me, and I
respond in kind. I wish this moment could last forever.... "Oh how good it
is". There is a shiver that runs through me and I squeeze your hands tight,
and you lay still to wait for the moment to pass. You kiss me deeply and more
passionately than I knew could be possible and I imagine. 
 
I look at you, smile, take a deep breath and close my eyes. You kiss me and
start our dance once more. This time our bodies are so close we feel as if we
are one, dancing in tandem. I follow your stride to keep in rhythm with the
dance.... dip...rock...sway. The pace quickens and again I steady myself not to
let you go as you sweep me into another world. "I want to stop, I beg you
to stop before it's too late.... please".... and then it happens. I
open up my heart and let you in as I call to you. I hold you tight and lock my
embrace and now I lead the dance. Forcing you to feel every movement of my body
as I pour my soul out to you. Suddenly you match my movement and tense as I did
mere moments before. I now revel in your passion and hold you,....
close....still ..... and silent. I look deep into your eyes and smile hoping
that I have shown you exactly how I feel, and that you know I have given you my
heart, and with words unspoken I hope you will then
 know....... Just imagine......  I want to always be there for you now and
forever darling.. I want to lay with you in front of a fireplace and keep the
heat going long after the fire goes out. I want to take trips with you to places
we've never been and experience them together. I want us to go
skinny-dipping in a hotel pool and get caught and streak back to our hotel room
waking everyone up because we're laughing so hard. I want us to go and pick
out the hot tub we want with the biggest grins on our faces the whole time. I
want the sales rep to get embarrassed when we sit in them and make sure we have
enough room to do the things we want to do.  I want our friends to come over and
get totally jealous because they don't share a love like we do. I want to be
walking into a store with you and trip and fall on my face and turn around to
see you rolling on the ground laughing at me. I want us to run outside in the
rain and act like total kids getting
 completely soaked, and when we come back in stripping down to nothing as we
stumble into the bedroom, or the kitchen counter, or the balcony, or the dining
room table, or an office desk, or the shower, which ever one we feel like at the

   I was married for 9years and i found out that my wife was cheating on me
with a very good friend of mine, and she does all kind of dirty stuffs - drinks
until she gets drunk - smokes alot - and i found out that she also does drugs as
well, i have been divorced now for 5years, after we got divorced my ex ran away
with my friend and she haven't been coming to visit her own son. All this
made me not to keep friends and have trusting issues. I have only dated once
after i got divorced but we both knew right from the very start that it was
never going to lead to something serious - because i was still heart broken from
my marriage, But now i'm ready to let God lead me to that special woman who
will love me now and forever.
 
I was born in Germany - my dad was in the military and we lived over there, He
died when i was 12years old and my mom was from the Uk England, and she had to
take me there with her after my dad's death, I should say I've lived
there in the Uk almost all my life and i jus came to the state 7years ago after
i lost my mom, She died from cancer - I'm the only child of my parents, My
mom never got married after my dads death , I attended a college had my
asociates' degree Construction/Craft Building/Technolgy Infor/ Management
Systems..I'm very laid-white and down-to-earth. I'm also very
old-fashioned when it comes to my respect and treatment for women.I'm a
social wine drinker but a non-smoker,have a great sence of humor and like to
spend time with someone i Love, and loved ones.. 
   Before I lay my head down to sleep I just want to say: rose are red violets
are blue I've been counting the days till i see you! 
 
I feel your arms around me 
My head against your bobs 
I should sleep too 
And try to get some rest 
I gently kiss you one last time 
And start to close my eyes 
knowing I'm holding you 
My heartbeat begins to rise 
You kiss me goodnight 
Feelings of love and passion 
Are running through my head 
I begin to miss you 
Your body so close to mine 
I want to hold you in my arms 
And kiss you one last time 
I want to say "Sweet dreams my queen" 
And let you know how much I care 
As I make sweet passionate love to you.
Love,
stephen

  I just want to lay you down and make sweet passionate love to
you....please you like have never been pleased before......love you like you
have never felt, I am a confidant lover, just been out of practice, saving for
someone like you.. very much get pleasure out of pleasing my woman.. when we
meet I want to flirt with you all day by gentle touches, looking into your
eyes,,,brushing up agenst you.....then, when evening falls..... all that
flirting will make me want you even more when i lay you doen
 
 
 
 
For your eyes alone!!  WISHES
I wish a wish
And my wish is this
That I can feel
The warmth of your kiss
That I can touch
A lock of your hair
That our bodies can meet
In the same air
That time can pass
And the waiting be done
So our lives can begin
With some degree of fun
That the longing I feel
Disappear with the breeze
In your arms I can know
â€˜the strength of your squeeze  
1-  76...  Honey, :x:">It is wonderful to my heart the feelings I
have for you! I am so glad God brought us together.You are so special to me and
you make me feel so special, I woke up this morning, and i found myself longing
for you more than the day before.. I miss you so much and i hope you're
having a good night sleep.. I will be online waiting to talk to you even if it
just for a little while.. Missing you loving you..:X:X:x        
I want to start by saying that I miss you, and you have no idea how much I love
you.  I know you don't need another reminder because I tell you a thousand
times a day how much I love you, but I do and that is my only way to show you. I
love the hundred ways you show me how much you love me, and I know my simple
words can never compare.  From day one, I knew there was something in you that
no other guy had. You are the most AMAZING guy I have ever known. Thinking back
to the strange way we met, how we grow so close in just a few short days, and
how you were the first one to show me the meaning of true love, it makes me
smile and fall all over for you again.  Baby, you make my heart beat faster each
time I see you, and you give me butterflies when you kiss me. You are the one I
want to hold for the rest of my life. In your arms is where I belong.You melt me
every time you tell me about the future that you want to spend with me and how
we could show the
 world the real meaning of being in love with the right person.  I wish the
people around me saw you and accepted us being together, because I don't
think I could live a day knowing that you are not in my life. I know that anyone
that tried to replace you would only be compared to you in my mind, and I know
they could never live up to you in my eyes. Every time I look into your eyes I
know that is where I want to live and die, and every time you hold me tight I
don't want you to let go because that is the only place I feel safest.  I
know when we first got together everyone wanted us apart. They told us that our
relationship would never last, and they still tell us that. But we have proven
them wrong and I want you to stay in my life forever, as you will in my heart. I
know forever is a very long time but it won’t be enough time for me to spend
with you, showing you every day how much I love and care about you.  I hate
being far from you. Knowing that
 I will only see you on holidays breaks my heart. I pray that you will carry my
love for you in your heart while you are gone, and I look forward to the day
when we can be together again.  Love Always,     Hi Pretty, How are you doing
today? My name is William and i am new on this network,I hope you get this email
and it finds you well.. I was glancing through profiles when your gorgeous
picture got me attracted while your lovely words had me write you, just came
across your profile and just could not get my eyes off it,so i decided to leave
you a short note,i am sure you do not need a mirror to tell you how pretty and
attractive you are,i would be doubting if you were single if your profile had
not said so,how about we talk and get to know each other?I am a single parent
with a 6 years old daughter,i have had her since she was little,and now i feel
this is a good time to have someone to share the good things of life
with,including adventure and
 laughter.. I'm presenltly out of the state right now and will be coming
back home in a couple of weeks time.. I'm in the west part of africa right
now working, I believe the time that i will be spending down here will help us
get to know more about each other and we could plan on meeting..
I am not sure how often i can get on here but i do check my e-mail very
often,if you would like to give me a chance to be your friend, You can IM me on
my yahoo IM with skylimit1162 .. Or email me with inforeseach@ymail.com
inforeseach@ymail.com even if it just to say Hi and i will email you back
write me when you can.Have a wonderful day. William.      
I am attending a United Methodist Church that is wonderful and the members have
become a fantastic "family". I enjoy seeing God's love at work in
my life and the fellowship I have with my church.  
I enjoy the outdoors, esp the beach. Walking on the beach at night,waves
crashing restlessly, a million stars in the sky,, ahhh perfect for me. I also
like dining out, plays, movies, art.Im pretty flexible as far as activities..  
Would like to go to the Hawaiian islands, like small intimate places to talk,
not to much on the bar/clubs seen.. Like all types of food, I'm open to try
new places and things, I also like to cook.. I wish i have someone to cook for. 
I love cooking, going to the beach, Although i haven't gone to the beach in
a long time now.. stay home listening to a country or romantic song, I enjoy
love storys, I'm a very sensitive person i cry sometimes, with just watching
a movie.  I usually read several books at a time. I am currently reading the
following: Max Lucado - Traveling Light; Chicken Soup for the Womans Soul;
It's All Too Much, Also 5 Languages of Love.     I can't concentrate on
work.  You occupy my every thought.  I can close
 my eyes and imagine being in your arms.  Feeling them wraped tight around me. 
Swaying to soft music.  Candles lit.  Looking into your eyes and seeing forever.
 I can close my eyes and imagine us laughing so hard our stomach hurts.  Holding
hands.  Taking walks.  Doing things with all the boys.  Looking at you and
wondering how on earth I was so lucky to have met you.  Realizing how much God
has blessed my life with you in it.  I can close my eyes and imagine when night
comes how wonderful it will feel to have you touch me.  Making love to you until
the sun comes up.  Falling asleep in your arms.  Waking and watching you sleep. 
Thanking God for you every day.     
Just before I turn in for the night, I want to let you know that my heart stays
with you tight, so that my warmth will make you feel that everything's going
to be right.  I usually read biography's if they are about people I admire
but I also read inspirational and Christian books from authors like Max Lucado
and Tony Campolo. One is more serious and the other is more Christian with a
touch of life's humor.     
Hi Pretty,      How are you doing today? My name is William and i am new on
this network,I hope you get this email and it finds you well.. I was glancing
through profiles when your gorgeous picture got me attracted while your lovely
words had me write you, just came across your profile and just could not get my
eyes off it,so i decided to leave you a short note,i am sure you do not need a
mirror to tell you how pretty and attractive you are,i would be doubting if you
were single if your profile had not said so,how about we talk and get to know
each other?I am a single parent with a 7 years old daughter,i have had her since
she was little and I'm proud to be her father,and now i feel this is a good
time to have someone to share the good things of life with,including adventure
and laughter..
 
I'm a gentle hearted man, I like making friends because friends are the
best. Love is not about body stature, but its all about what is in the
heart.what I care about is you are beautiful and I wish to be the man you've
always wanted and I'm sure you and I would work things nicely being
..together My.. personality traits are Simple, honest, cheerful.I like these
kinds of music Romantic music,Rock,and souls. I've been divorced for about
3years now and I wish to settle down now to find a real Love.
 
I'm into Construction, a building contractor, but right now I'm
presently in the west Africa Nigeria execute a contract with a beinart companies
and the contract that i am executing here is a very large one, I'm getting
back to relocate with my dream one . I believe the time that i will be spending
down here will help us to get to know more about each other.. And maybe we could
plan on meeting when i get back home..
 
I am not sure how often i can get on here but i do check my e-mail very
often,if you would like to give me a chance to be your friend, You can IM me on
my yahoo IM with skylimit1062 .. Or email me with inforeseach@ymail.com or
inforeseach@ymail.com even if it just to say Hi and i will email you back
with a picture of me because i dont have my picture on here... write me when you
can.
Have a wonderful day.
peter.   You should know my faith is very important to me and I believe
everything in the Bible and try to follow God's word and live each day to
please Jesus.''' 
----<math>\neg\exists~Q\ne\empty\sube\left\{\plusmn\tfrac{1}{5}\right\}\cup\mathbb{N}:\ \sum_{q\isin Q}\lim_{z\rightarrow\infty}\dfrac{2^q\times\sqrt[3]{\pi}}{\textstyle\int\limits_{y=\alpha''}^\omega \partial_x f(\bar z)\cdot dy}\not\equiv 0</math>

===Verb===
'''stank'''

# {{simple past of|[[stink]]}}

[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]

----

==Breton==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|br}} {{term|estanc|lang=fro}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|br|noun|g=m}}

# [[pond]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=m|pl=stanken|dim=stankje}}

# [[stench]]

----

==Old High German==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Germanic|stankwaz|lang=goh}}, whence also Old English {{term|stenc|stenċ|lang=ang}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|goh|noun|g=m}}

# [[smell]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|Sv-en stank.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=stanke}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}

# [[stink]], [[stench]]  (a bad smell)
#:'''1938''':[[w:Ludvig Nordström|Ludvig Nordström]] [http://runeberg.org/lortsvrg/kap5p4.html ''Lort-Sverige''] - Denna '''stank''' hade nämligen samma underliga egenskap som liklukt att så att säga smyga sig fram och liksom långsamt, gradvis underminera luften.
#::"This stench had the same strange quality as the smell of corpses, that is so to say sneaked up on you and kind of slowly, gradually undermine the air."

===Verb===
{{infl|sv|verb form}}

# {{form of|past tense|[[stinka]]}}

[[el:stank]]
[[fr:stank]]
[[ru:stank]]
[[vi:stank]]