{{wikipedia|dab=Standard (disambiguation)|Standard}}
{{also|Standard}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} for an upright timber, from the {{etyl|fro}} ''[[estandart]]'' (French: ''[[étendard]]''), from Old Frankish ''*standhard'' "stand firm".

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈstændɚd/}}
* {{audio|En-us-standard.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A level of [[quality]] or [[attainment]].
# Something used as a [[measure]] for comparative [[evaluation]]s.
# An object [[support]]ed in an [[upright]] position.
# A [[musical]] work of established [[popularity]].
# The flag or [[ensign]] carried by a [[cavalry]] unit.
# A rule or set of rules or requirements which are widely agreed upon or imposed by government.
# A [[bottle]] of [[wine]] containing 0.750 [[liter]]s of fluid.
# One of the upright members that supports the [[horizontal]] [[axis]] of a [[transit]] or [[theodolite]].
# A manual transmission vehicle.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|level of quality}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مستوى|f|tr=mustawaa}},{{t|ar|معيار|m|tr=mi3yaad}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|標準|sc=Hani}},{{t-|cmn|标准|tr=biāozhǔn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|standaard}}
* German: {{t+|de|Standard|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρότυπο|n|tr=prótypo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|標準|tr=ひょうじゅん, hyōjun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|표준|tr=pyojun|sc=Hang}} ({{t+|ko|標準|sc=Hani}})
* Polish: {{l|pl|standard}} {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стандарт|m|tr=standárt}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|estándar|m}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ప్రమాణం]] (pramaanaM)
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|trình độ|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something used as a measure}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|maatstaf|m}}, {{t-|nl|standaard}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|norm}}
* German: {{t+|de|Standard|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρότυπο|n|tr=prótypo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{l|pl|standard}} {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стандарт|m|tr=standárt}}, {{t|ru|образец|m|tr=obrazéc}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|slat-tomhais|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|modelo|m}}, {{t+|es|patrón|m}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ప్రమాణం]] (pramaanaM)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a flag or ensign}}
* German: {{t+|de|Banner|n}}, {{t+|de|Standarte|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σημαία|f|tr=simaía}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|stindard|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|знамя|n|tr=známja}}, {{t|ru|штандарт|m|tr=štandárt}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|estandarte|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[standaard]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Falling within an [[accepted]] [[range]] of size, amount, power, quality, etc.
# {{context|of a tree or shrub}} Growing on an [[erect]] [[stem]] of full height.
# Having [[recognize]]d [[excellence]] or [[authority]].
# Of a [[usable]] or [[serviceable]] grade or quality.
# {{not comparable|of a motor vehicle}} Having a [[manual transmission]].
# As [[normally]] [[supplied]] (not [[optional]]).

====Related terms====
* [[nonstandard]]
* [[standard fare]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|falling within an accepted range}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|caighdeánach|xs=Irish}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|standardowy|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|estándar}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ప్రమాణిక]] (pramaanika)
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Retronyms]]

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-standard.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|standard]]

====Related terms====
* [[standardizace]]
* [[standardizovaný]]
* [[standardizovat]]
* [[standardní]]
* [[nadstandard]]
* [[nadstandardní]]

====See also====
* [[norma]]
* [[měřítko]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} [[#English|standard]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-standard.ogg|audio}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj}}

# [[#Adjective|standard]]

====Synonyms====
* [[normal#French|normal]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Adjective===
'''standard''' {{inv}}

# [[#English|standard]]

===Noun===
'''standard''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|standard]]

===Related terms===
* [[standardizzare]]
* [[standardizzazione]]

[[Category:Italian adjectives]]

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|pl}} ''[[#English|standard]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈs̪t̪an̪d̪art̪/|lang=pl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|standard]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|standard|standardy
|standardu|standardów
|standardowi|standardom
|standard|standardy
|standardem|standardami
|standardzie|standardach
|standardzie|standardy
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[standardowy]]
* [[standaryzacja]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stǎndard/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|stan|dard}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=stàndard|r|стандард|ста̀ндард}}

# [[#English|standard]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|standard|standardi
|standarda|standarda
|standardu|standardima
|standard|standarde
|standarde|standardi
|standardu|standardima
|standardom|standardima
}}

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|feminine=standard|masculine plural=standardes|feminine plural=standardes}}

# [[standard#English|standard]]

===See also===
* [[estándar]]
* [[estandard]]

[[zh-min-nan:standard]]
[[de:standard]]
[[et:standard]]
[[el:standard]]
[[es:standard]]
[[fa:standard]]
[[fr:standard]]
[[fy:standard]]
[[gl:standard]]
[[ko:standard]]
[[io:standard]]
[[id:standard]]
[[kn:standard]]
[[ku:standard]]
[[hu:standard]]
[[ml:standard]]
[[my:standard]]
[[ja:standard]]
[[pl:standard]]
[[pt:standard]]
[[ru:standard]]
[[scn:standard]]
[[simple:standard]]
[[fi:standard]]
[[sv:standard]]
[[ta:standard]]
[[te:standard]]
[[tr:standard]]
[[vi:standard]]
[[zh:standard]]