{{also|STEM}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|stem}}, {{IPA|/stem/}}, {{SAMPA|/stem/}}
*: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛm|Rhymes: -ɛm]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[stefn]]'' (later: ''stemn'')

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{botany}} The above-ground [[stalk]] (''technically'' [[axis]]) of a vascular [[plant]], and certain anatomically similar, below-ground [[organ]]s such as [[rhizome]]s, [[bulb]]s, [[tuber]]s, and [[corm]]s.
# A slender supporting member of an individual part of a plant such as a flower or a leaf; also, by analogue the shaft of a feather.
# A narrow part on certain man-made objects, such as a [[wine]] [[glass]], a tobacco pipe, a spoon.
# {{linguistic morphology}} The main part of an [[uninflected]] word to which [[ending]]s may be added to form [[inflection]]s of the word.
# {{typography}} A vertical stroke of a letter.
# {{music}} A vertical stroke of a symbol representing a note in written music.
# {{nautical}} The vertical or nearly vertical forward extension of the [[keel]], to which the forward ends of the planks or [[strake]]s are attached. (FM 55-501).

=====Derived terms=====
* [[stem cell]]
* [[brain stem]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|botany: above-ground stalk of a vascular plant}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stam|m}}, {{t-|nl|stengel|m}}, {{t-|nl|steel|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varsi}}, {{t-|fi|runko}}
* German: {{t+|de|Stamm|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ceppo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|flower|glass}} {{t+|ja|茎|tr=kuki|sc=Jpan}}; {{qualifier|trunk}} {{t+|ja|幹|tr=miki|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: [[ствол]] (stvol) {{m}} ''of a tree'', [[стебель]] (st'éb'el') {{m}}
* Swedish: [[stjälk]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slender supporting member for an individual part of a plant}}
* Finnish: [[vana]], [[kukkavana]], [[kukkavarsi]], [[lehtiruoti]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|gambo|m}}, {{t-|it|picciolo|m}}, {{t-|it|peduncolo|m}}, {{t+|it|stelo|m}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|flower}} {{t+|ja|茎|tr=kuki|sc=Jpan}}; {{qualifier|leaf|feather}} {{t+|ja|軸|tr=jiku|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[черенок]] (čerenók) {{m}} ''of a leaf or fruit'', [[цветоножка]] (cv'etonóžka) {{f}} ''of a flower'', [[плодоножка]] (plodonóžka) {{f}} ''of a fruit''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|narrow supporting structure on certain man-made objects}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jalka}}, {{t+|fi|varsi}}, {{t+|fi|kanta}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gambo|m}}, {{t+|it|stelo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|wine glass|tobacco pipe}} {{t+|ja|軸|tr=jiku|sc=Jpan}}; {{qualifier|spoon}} {{t+|ja|柄|tr=e|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: [[стержень]] (st'éržen’) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|linguistics: main part of a word}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kmen|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stam|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vartalo}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wortstamm|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|radice|f}}, {{t+|it|radicale|m}}, {{t-|it|tema|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|語幹|tr=gokan|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: [[основа]] (osnóva) {{f}}
* Swedish: [[ordstam]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|typography: vertical stroke of a letter}}
* Finnish: [[pystyviiva]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ножка|f|tr=nóžka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: vertical stroke of a symbol representing a note in written music}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varsi}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|asta|f}}, {{t+|it|gamba|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[notskaft]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: forward vertical extension of the keel}}
* Danish: [[stævn]]
* Finnish: [[keulavannas]], [[kokkapuu]], [[steevi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[нос]] (nos) {{m}}, [[форштевень]] (forštév'en') {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[茎]] (jìng); [[詞根]], [[词根]] (cí gēn)
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[tige]] {{f}} (1), [[radical]] (3)
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Stiel]] {{m}} (2)
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: [[μίσχος]] (mískhos) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[גבעול]] (giv'ol) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[줄기]] (julgi)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[haste]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[vástago]] {{m}}, [[tallo]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[stam]] {{c}} (5); [[skaft]] {{n}} (2,7); [[fot]] {{c}} (3,4); [[stapel]] {{c}} (6)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From Old Norse ''[[stemma]]''.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|stem|m|ing}}

# To [[descend]] in a family line.
# To be [[cause|caused]] or [[derive|derived]]; to originate.
#: ''The current crisis '''stems''' from the short-sighted politics of the previous government.''
# To [[take out]] the stem from something.
# To [[stop]], hinder (for instance, a river or blood).
#* stem a tide
# {{skiing}} To move the feet apart and point the tips of the skis inward in order to slow down the speed or to facilitate a turn.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to originate|stem from}} [[to be due to]], [[to arise from]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to descend}}
* Finnish: [[polveutua]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|discendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[происходить]] (proisχodít') {{impf}}, [[произойти]] (proizojtí) {{pf}}
* Swedish: [[stamma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be caused}}
* Finnish: [[olla peräisin]], [[johtua]], [[aiheutua]], [[periytyä]]
* Italian: [[derivare]] da
* Japanese: {{t|ja|発端とする|tr=hottan to suru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[происходить]] (proisχodít') {{impf}}, [[произойти]] (proizojtí) {{pf}}
* Swedish: [[stamma]], [[härstamma]], [[härröra]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to take out the stem from something}}
* Finnish: [[poistaa]] [[varsi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[härleda]], [[ta]] [[ut]] [[stam]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to stop, hinder}}
* Finnish: [[padota]], [[seisauttaa]], [[tyrehdyttää]]
* Japanese: {{t|ja|堰止める|tr=sekitomeru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[stoppa]], [[hejda]], [[hindra]], [[stämma]], [[dämma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|skiing: to point the skis inward}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aurata}}
* Italian: [[aprire]] lo [[spazzaneve]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|シュテム|tr=shutemu|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[stem from]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-stem.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''stem'''

# [[voice]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[ar:stem]]
[[bg:stem]]
[[et:stem]]
[[el:stem]]
[[fa:stem]]
[[fr:stem]]
[[io:stem]]
[[id:stem]]
[[it:stem]]
[[ku:stem]]
[[hu:stem]]
[[nl:stem]]
[[pt:stem]]
[[ru:stem]]
[[simple:stem]]
[[fi:stem]]
[[sv:stem]]
[[ta:stem]]
[[te:stem]]
[[vi:stem]]
[[tr:stem]]
[[uk:stem]]
[[vo:stem]]
[[zh:stem]]