==English==

===Etymology===
{{compound|stick to|it|-ive|-ness|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|informal}} [[persistence]]; [[determination]].
#* '''1871''', ''The Indiana School Journal''
#*: There is no success like "'''sticktoitiveness'''."
#* '''1892''', ''Gleanings in Bee Culture'', Volume 20
#*: Although this costs us a good deal more, we charge no more for it, and are satisfied with the "'''sticktoitiveness'''" of our subscribers.
#* '''1898''', "Duty of the Farmer" by E. E. Rodgers, from Indiana Board of Agriculture annual report, Issue 47
#*: Yes, but, says one, it is muscle and everlasting grit and '''sticktoitiveness''' that makes the farm go. The '''sticktoitiveness''' is all right but an abnormal muscle is not altogether necessary.
#* '''1899''', "The Planting and Culture of an Apple Orchard" by R.A. Jones from the proceedings of the annual convention of the Northwest Fruit Growers Association
#*: To be in the successful 10 per cent, as above referred to, requires an abundance of '''sticktoitiveness''', energy, thought, industry, and watchfulness. Now, in which class do you propose to be?
#* '''1905''', ''Ad sense: devoted to the interests of buyers of advertising'', Volume 18,
#*: There is probably nothing more essential to permanent business success than '''sticktoitiveness''', or it might be expressed in the word continuity. It requires time to fit oneself for service.
#* '''1921''', [[w:National Electric Light Association|National Electric Light Association]], ''Convention'', Volume 1,
#*: And let me tell you that the greatest test of '''sticktoitiveness''' that has ever yet been devised is the application of a correspondence course.
#* {{quote-book|title=How can I keep from singing: Pete Seeger‎|page=305|author=David King Dunaway|year=1990|passage=Perhaps he oversimplified his life when he wrote: "All you need to be a modern johnny Appleseed is a guitar and some '''sticktoitiveness''',"}}
#* '''2011''', "Colour-coded justice system?" by Melvin Pennant in ''The Gleaner'' (Jamaica)
#*: But before we give kudos to the media for their '''stick-to-itiveness''' in this case, let us examine some minor details that might just prove my theory that political association seems to grant special favours.