==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[stif|stīf]]'', from {{proto|Germanic|stifaz}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|stīpos}} ( compare {{L.}} {{term|stipare}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stɪf/}}
* {{audio|en-us-stiff.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪf|-ɪf]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Of an object, [[rigid]], hard to bend, [[inflexible]].
# {{context|figuratively}} Of policies and rules and their application and enforcement, inflexible.
# Of a person, [[formal]] in behavior, unrelaxed.
# {{colloquial}} [[harsh|Harsh]], [[severe]].
#: ''He was eventually caught, and given a '''stiff''' fine.''
# Of muscles, or parts of the body, [[painful]], as a result of excessive, or [[unaccustomed]] excercise.
#: ''My legs are '''stiff''' after climbing that hill yesterday.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of an object, rigid, hard to bend, inflexible}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jäykkä}}
* French: {{t|fr|rigide}}
* German: {{t+|de|steif}}, {{t+|de|starr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|硬い|tr=katai|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|жёсткий|sc=Cyrl|tr=žóstkij}}, {{t|ru|негибкий|sc=Cyrl|tr=n'egíbkij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|figuratively: of policies and rules and their application and enforcement}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kankea}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|固い|tr=katai|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|жёсткий|sc=Cyrl|tr=žóstkij}}, {{t|ru|непоколебимый|sc=Cyrl|tr=n'epokol'ebímyj}}, {{t|ru|непреклонный|sc=Cyrl|tr=n'epr'eklónnyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a person, formal in behavior, unrelaxed}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jäykkä}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|固い|tr=katai|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|холодный|sc=Cyrl|tr=χolódnyj}}, {{t|ru|чопорный|sc=Cyrl|tr=čópornyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: harsh, severe}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kova}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|堅い|tr=katai|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|строгий|sc=Cyrl|tr=strógij}}, {{t|ru|суровый|sc=Cyrl|tr=suróvyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of muscles, or parts of the body}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jäykkä}}, {{t|fi|kankea}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|凝る|tr=koru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|окостеневший|sc=Cyrl|tr=okost'en'évšij}}, {{t|ru|одеревенелый|sc=Cyrl|tr=od'er'ev'en'élyj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[твърд]] {{m}} (1)
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[raide]], [[rigide]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[kaku]], [[keras]]
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[rigide]], [[inflexibile]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[rigido]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: {{KUchar|[[قایم]]}}, {{KUchar|[[به‌ستوو]]}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[duro]], [[rígido]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[tieso]], [[rígido]]
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[styv]], [[strikt]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An average person, usually male, of no particular distinction, skill, or education, often a ''working '''stiff''''' or ''lucky '''stiff'''''.
#: '''''A Working Stiff's Manifesto: A Memoir of Thirty Jobs I Quit, Nine That Fired Me, and Three I Can't Remember''' was published in 2003.''
# A person who is deceived, as a [[mark]] or [[pigeon]] in a [[swindle]].
#: ''She convinced the '''stiff''' to go to her hotel room, where her [[henchman]] was waiting to rob him.''
# {{slang}} A [[cadaver]], a dead person.
# {{US}} A person who leaves (especially a restaurant) without paying the bill.

====See also====
* [[bindlestiff]]
* [[WikiSaurus:corpse]], [[WikiSaurus:body]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|average person, usually male}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heppu}}, {{t-|fi|hemmo}}, {{t|fi|heebo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|informal|rude|offensive}} {{t|ja|オッサン|tr=ossan|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person who is deceived}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uhri}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|slang|rude|offensive}} {{t|ja|カモ|tr=kamo|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|лох|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=loχ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: cadaver, dead person}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|труп|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* French: {{t+|fr|macchabée|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Steifer]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|труп|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=trup}}, {{t|ru|жмурик|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=žmúrik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|US: person who leaves without paying the bill}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zechpreller|m}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|informal}} {{t|ja|食い逃げ|tr=kui-nige|sc=Jpan}}; {{sense|eats without money, does not matter if he/she leaves}} {{qualifier|formal}} {{t|ja|無銭飲食|tr=musen-inshoku|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To fail to pay that which one [[owe]]s ([[implicitly]] or [[explicitly]]) to another, especially by [[depart]]ing [[hastily]].
#: ''Realizing he had forgotten his wallet, he '''stiffed''' the taxi driver when the cab stopped for a red light.''
#* '''1946''', William Foote Whyte, ''Industry and Society'', page 129
#*: We asked one girl to explain how she felt when she was "'''stiffed'''." She said, You think of all the work you've done and how you've tried to please [them…].
#* '''1992''', Stephen Birmingham, ''Shades of Fortune'', page 451
#*: You see, poor Nonie really was '''stiffed''' by Adolph in his will. He really '''stiffed her''', Rose, and I really wanted to right that wrong.
#* '''2007''', Mary Higgins Clark, ''I Heard That Song Before'', page 154
#*: Then he '''stiffed''' the waiter with a cheap tip.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to fail to pay money one owes}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|払い忘れる|tr=harai-wasureru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[sjappa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to tip ungenerously}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cheat someone}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Death]]

[[ar:stiff]]
[[fa:stiff]]
[[fr:stiff]]
[[io:stiff]]
[[id:stiff]]
[[it:stiff]]
[[hu:stiff]]
[[nl:stiff]]
[[pl:stiff]]
[[pt:stiff]]
[[ru:stiff]]
[[simple:stiff]]
[[fi:stiff]]
[[sv:stiff]]
[[ta:stiff]]
[[te:stiff]]
[[vi:stiff]]
[[zh:stiff]]