{{also|štír}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* RP, {{IPA|/stɜː/}}
* Gen Am, {{IPA|/stɜːr/}}
* {{audio|en-us-stir.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(r)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|styrian|lang=ang}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|stir|r|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[change]] the place of in any manner; to move.
#: ''My foot I had never yet in five days been able to '''stir'''. —[[w:Sir William Temple|Sir William Temple]]''
# {{transitive}} To [[disturb]] the relative position of the particles of, as of a liquid, by passing something through it; to agitate
#: ''She stired a pudding with a spoon''.
#: ''My mind is troubled, like a fountain '''stirred'''. —[[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]]''
# {{transitive}} To [[bring]] into debate; to agitate; to moot.
#: '''''Stir''' not questions of jurisdiction. —[[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]''
# {{transitive}} To [[incite]] to action; to arouse; to instigate; to prompt; to excite.
#: ''To '''stir''' men to devotion. —[[w:Chaucer|Chaucer]]''
#: ''An Ate, '''stirring''' him to blood and strife. —[[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]]''
#: ''And for her sake some mutiny will '''stir'''. —[[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]].''
# {{intransitive}} To [[move]]; to change one’s position.
#: ''I had not power to '''stir''' or strive, But felt that I was still alive. —[[w:Byron|Byron]].''
# {{intransitive}} To be in [[motion]]; to be active or bustling; to exert or busy one's self.
#: ''All are not fit with them to '''stir''' and toil. —[[w:Byron|Byron]].''
#: ''The friends of the unfortunate exile, far from resenting his unjust suspicions, were '''stirring''' anxiously in his behalf. — [[w:Charles Merivale|Charles Merivale]].''
# {{intransitive}} To [[become]] the object of notice; to be on foot.
#: ''They fancy they have a right to talk freely upon everything that '''stirs''' or appears. —[[w:Isaac Watts|Isaac Watts]].''
# {{intransitive|poetic}} To [[rise]], or be up, in the morning. —[[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]]

=====Usage notes=====
* In all transitive senses except the first, '''stir''' is often followed by up with an intensive effect; as, to '''stir''' up fire; to '''stir''' up sedition.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to move}} [[incite]]; [[awaken]]; [[rouse]]; [[animate]]; [[stimulate]]; [[excite]]; [[provoke]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[stirrer]]
* [[stir-fry]]
* [[stir up]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To change the place of in any manner; to move}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аларма|f|tr=alárma}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|liikuttaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|bewegen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mozgat}}, {{t|hu|mozdít}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|動かす|tr=ugokasu}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|commoveo|alt=commoveō}}
* Russian: [[двигать]] (dvígat') {{impf}}, [[двинуть]] (dvínut') {{pf}}; [[шевелить]] (šev'elít') {{impf}}, [[шевельнуть]] (šev'el'nút') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To disturb the relative position of the particles of}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аларма|f|tr=alárma}}
* Chinese: [[攪]], [[搅]] (jiǎo)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sekoittaa}},  {{t+|fi|hämmentää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|remuer}}
* German: {{t+|de|rühren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kever}}, {{t|hu|kavar}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|掻き混ぜる|tr=kaki-mazeru}}
* Russian: [[размешивать]] (razm'éšivat’) {{impf}}, [[размешать]] (razm'ešát’) {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|revolver}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To bring into debate; to agitate; to moot}}
* German: {{t+|de|hervorrufen}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|扇動する|tr=sendō suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[вызывать]] (vyzyvát') {{impf}}, [[вызвать]] (výzvat') {{pf}}; [[возбуждать]] (vozbuždát') {{impf}}, [[возбудить]] (vozbudít') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To incite to action; to arouse; to instigate; to prompt; to excite}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аларма|f|tr=alárma}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yllyttää}}, {{t+|fi|kiihottaa}},  {{t-|fi|liikuttaa}}
* German: {{t-|de|anstacheln}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|かき立てる|tr=kakitateru}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|commoveo|alt=commoveō}}
* Russian: [[вызывать]] (vyzyvát') {{impf}}, [[вызвать]] (výzvat') {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To move; to change one’s position}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liikkua}}
* German: (sich) [[bewegen]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mozdul}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|動く|tr=ugoku}}
* Russian: [[двигаться]] (dvígat's'a) {{impf}}, [[двинуться]] (dvínut's'a) {{pf}}; [[шевелиться]] (šev'elít's'a) {{impf}}, [[шевельнуться]] (šev'el'nút's'a) {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To be in motion}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liikkua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|agiter}}
* German: (sich) [[regen]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mozog}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|動き回る|tr=ugoki-mawaru}}
* Russian: [[двигаться]] (dvígat's'a) {{impf}}, [[двинуться]] (dvínut's'a) {{pf}}; [[шевелиться]] (šev'elít's'a) {{impf}}, [[шевельнуться]] (šev'el'nút's'a) {{pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To become the object of notice; to be on foot}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liikkua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|auffallen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To rise, or be up, in the morning}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nousta}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[مزج]]}} {{unicode|(mázaja)}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[roeren]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[agiter]], [[remuer]]
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[agitar]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[mescolare]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[휘젓다]] (hwijeotta)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[mexer]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[revolver]]
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[röra]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# The [[act]] or [[result]] of stirring; agitation; tumult; bustle; noise or various movements.
#: ''Why all these words, this clamor, and this '''stir'''? — [[w:Sir John Denham|Sir John Denham]].''
#: ''Consider, after so much '''stir''' about genus and species, how few words we have yet settled definitions of. —[[w:John Locke|John Locke]].''
# Public [[disturbance]] or [[commotion]]; tumultuous disorder; seditious uproar.
#: ''Being advertised of some '''stirs''' raised by his unnatural sons in England. —[[w:Sir John Davies|Sir John Davies]].''
# [[agitation|Agitation]] of thoughts; conflicting passions.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|The act or result of stirring}}
* German: {{t+|de|Erregung}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|撹拌|tr=kakuhan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[неразбериха]] (n'erazb'eríχa) {{f}}, [[суматоха]] (sumatóχa) {{f}}, [[суета]] (sujetá) {{f}}, [[переполох]] (p'er'epolóχ) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Public disturbance or commotion}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aufruhr}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|騒動|tr=sōdō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|волнения|p|tr=voln'énija}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Agitation of thoughts; conflicting passions}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tumulte|m}}
* German: [[Erregung]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|騒動|tr=sōdō}}
* Russian: [[смятение]] (sm'at'énije) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{slang}} [[jail|Jail]]; prison.
#: ''He's going to spendin' maybe ten years '''in stir'''.''

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|irst}}
* [[ISTR#English|ISTR]]
* [[TRIS#English|TRIS]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Verb===
{{infl|da|verb form}}

# {{form of|imperative|stirre|lang=Danish}}

[[et:stir]]
[[fr:stir]]
[[ko:stir]]
[[io:stir]]
[[it:stir]]
[[kn:stir]]
[[kk:stir]]
[[ku:stir]]
[[lo:stir]]
[[hu:stir]]
[[ja:stir]]
[[pl:stir]]
[[pt:stir]]
[[simple:stir]]
[[fi:stir]]
[[ta:stir]]
[[te:stir]]
[[th:stir]]
[[tr:stir]]
[[vi:stir]]
[[vo:stir]]
[[zh:stir]]