{{also|Stock|-stock}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=stock (disambiguation)|stock}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|stŏk}}, {{IPA|/stɒk/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|stäk}}, {{IPA|/stɑk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-stock.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒk|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|stocc|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*stukkaz||tree-trunk}}, with modern senses mostly referring either to the trunk from which the tree grows (figuratively, its origin and/or support/foundation), or to a piece of wood, stick, or rod. How the senses of "supply" and "raw material" developed from these is unclear, however.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A [[store]] or [[supply]]
## {{context|operations|lang=en}} A [[store]] of [[good]]s ready for sale; [[inventory]].
##: ''We have a '''stock''' of televisions on hand.''
## A [[supply]] of anything ready for use.
##: ''Lay in a '''stock''' of wood for the winter season.''
## [[railroad|Railroad]] [[rolling stock]].
## In a [[card game]], a stack of undealt cards made available to the players.
## [[farm|Farm]] or [[ranch]] animals; [[livestock]].
## The population of a given type of [[animal]] (especially fish) [[available]] to be [[captured]] from the wild for [[economic]] use.
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} The [[capital]] raised by a company through the issue of [[shares]]. The total of shares held by an individual shareholder.
## The [[price]] or [[value]] of the stock for a company on the [[stock market]]
##: ''When the bad news came out, the company's stock dropped [[precipitously]].''
## {{context|figurative|lang=en}} The measure of how highly a person or institution is valued.
##: ''After that last [[screw-up]] of mine, my stock is pretty low around here.''
## Any of several types of [[security]] that are similar to a stock, or marketed like one.
# The raw material from which things are made; [[feedstock]].
## The type of paper used in printing.
##: ''The books were printed on a heavier '''stock''' this year.''
## Undeveloped film; [[film stock]].
## [[plain|Plain]] [[soap]] before it is coloured and perfumed.
# [[stock theater|Stock theater]], [[summer stock]] [[theater]].
# The [[trunk]] and [[woody]] main [[stem]]s of a tree. The base from which something grows or branches.
#* Bible, Job xiv. 8,9
#*: Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the '''stock''' thereof die in the ground, yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.
## {{context|horticulture|lang=en}} The [[plant]] upon which the [[scion]] is [[graft#Verb|grafted]].
##* Francis Bacon
##*: The scion overruleth the '''stock''' quite.
## [[lineage]], [[family]], [[ancestry]]
### {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} A larger grouping of language families: a [[superfamily]] or [[macrofamily]].
# Any of the several species of [[cruciferous]] [[flower]]s in the genus ''[[Matthiola]]''.
# A [[handle]] or [[stem]] to which the [[working]] [[part]] of an [[implement]] or [[weapon]] is [[attach]]ed
## The part of a [[rifle]] or [[shotgun]] that rests against the shooter's [[shoulder]].
##* {{quote-book|author=Tom Turpin|title=Modern Custom Guns: Walnut, Steel, and Uncommon Artistry|edition=2nd|location=Iola, Wis.|publisher=[[w:F+W|Gun Digest Books]]|year=2013|page=47|isbn=978-1-4402-3646-4|passage=The most underrated component in building a custom gun is the metalsmithing. '''Stock''' work immediately attracts attention. Fancy checkering patterns, meticulously executed, are sure to elicit ''oohs'' and ''ahhs''.}}
## The handle of a [[whip]], [[fishing rod]], etc.
# Part of a [[machine]] that supports items or holds them in place.
## The [[headstock]] of a [[lathe]], [[drill]], etc.
## The [[tailstock]] of a [[lathe]]
# A bar, stick or rod
## A [[ski pole]]
## {{context|nautical|lang=en}} A [[bar]] going through an [[anchor]], perpendicular to the [[fluke]]s.
## {{context|nautical|lang=en}} The axle attached to the [[rudder]], which transfers the movement of the helm to the rudder.
## {{context|geology|lang=en}} A [[pipe]] (vertical cylinder of ore)
# A [[bed]] for [[infant]]s; a [[crib]], [[cot]], or [[cradle]]
# {{context|folklore|lang=en}} A piece of wood magically made to be just like a real baby and substituted for it by magical beings.
# {{context|uncountable|countable|lang=en}} [[broth|Broth]] made from meat (originally bones) or vegetables, used as a basis for [[stew]] or [[soup]].
# A [[necktie]] or [[cravat]], particularly a wide necktie popular in the eighteenth century, often seen today as a part of formal wear for horse riding competitions.
#* '''1915''', [[w:W. Somerset Maugham|W.S. Maugham]], "[[w:Of Human Bondage|Of Human Bondage]]", [[s:Of Human Bondage/Chapter CXVI|chapter 116]]:
#*: He wore a brown tweed suit and a white '''stock'''. His clothes hung loosely about him as though they had been made for a much larger man. He looked like a respectable farmer of the middle of the nineteenth century.
#* '''1978''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''Livia'', Faber & Faber 1992 (''Avignon Quintet''), p. 417:
#*: His grey waistcoat sported pearl buttons, and he wore a '''stock''' which set off to admiration a lean and aquiline face which was almost as grey as the rest of him.
# A piece of black cloth worn under a [[clerical collar]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A cover for the legs; a [[stocking]]
# A block of wood; something fixed and solid; a pillar; a firm support; a post.
#* Milton
#*: All our fathers worshipped '''stocks''' and stones.
#* Fuller
#*: Item, for a '''stock''' of brass for the holy water, seven shillings; which, by the canon, must be of marble or metal, and in no case of brick.
# {{context|by extension|obsolete|lang=en}} A person who is as dull and lifeless as a stock or post; one who has little sense.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Let's be no stoics, nor no '''stocks'''.
# {{context|UK|historical|lang=en}} The part of a [[tally]] formerly struck in the [[exchequer]], which was delivered to the person who had lent the king money on account, as the evidence of indebtedness.
# A [[thrust]] with a [[rapier]]; a [[stoccado]].
# {{context|shipbuilding|in the plural|lang=en}} The frame or timbers on which a ship rests during construction.
# {{context|UK|in the plural|lang=en}} Red and grey bricks, used for the exterior of walls and the front of buildings.
# {{context|biology|lang=en}} In [[tectology]], an aggregate or colony of [[person]]s, such as as trees, chains of [[salpa]]e, etc.
# The [[beater]] of a [[fulling mill]].
#: {{rfquotek|Knight}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|farm or ranch animals}} [[livestock]]
* {{sense|railroad equipment}} [[rolling stock]]
* {{sense|raw material}} [[feedstock]]
* {{sense|paper for printing}} [[card stock]]
* {{sense|plant used in grafting}} [[rootstock]], [[understock]]
* {{sense|axle attached to rudder}} [[rudder stock]]
* {{sense|wide necktie}} [[stock-tie]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''stock'' (noun)}}
* [[buffer stock]]
* [[capital stock]]
* [[certificated stock]]
* [[common stock]]
* [[corporate stock]]
* [[deferred stock]]
* {{vern|evening stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola longipetala|species|noshow=1}})
* [[growth stock]]
* [[gunstock]]
* {{vern|hoary stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola incana|species|noshow=1}})
* [[laughingstock]], [[laughing stock]]
* [[livestock]]
* {{vern|night-scented stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola longipetala|species|noshow=1}})
* [[penny stock]]
* [[preferred stock]]
* [[private stock]]
* [[rolling stock]]
* {{vern|sad stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola fruticulosa|species|noshow=1}})
* {{vern|sea stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola sinuata|species|noshow=1}})
* [[stand stock still]]
* [[standing stock]]
* [[stock answer]]
* [[stock certificate]]
* [[stock company]]
* [[stock cube]]
* [[stock exchange]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[stockfish]]
* [[stockholder]]
* [[stockish]]
* [[stockist]]
* [[stockless]]
* [[stockman]]
* [[stock market]]
* [[stock option]]
* [[stock performance]]
* [[stock phrase]]
* [[stockpicker]]
* [[stockpile]]
* [[stock split]]
* [[stock-still]]
* [[stock-take]]
* [[stock-taking]]
* [[stock up]]
* [[stock vehicle]], as opposed to [[custom vehicle]]
* [[stocks]]
* [[stocky]]
* [[stockyard]]
* [[take stock]]
* {{vern|three-horned stock}} ({{taxlink|Matthiola tricuspidata|species|noshow=1}})
* [[tracking stock]]
* [[treasury stock]]
* [[unissued stock]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|store of goods for sale}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|庫存|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|库存|tr=kùcún|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorraad|m}}, {{t+|nl|stock|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varasto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|stock|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vorrat|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απόθεμα|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|στοκ|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מלאי|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|árukészlet}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|negozio|m}}, {{t+|it|deposito|m}}, {{t+|it|magazzino|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|在庫|tr=[[ざいこ]], zaiko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|재고|tr=[[在庫]], jaego}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|prece|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|lager|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|lager|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|estoque|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ассортиме́нт|m}}, {{t+|ru|запа́с|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zásoba|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|surtido|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lager|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|supply of anything ready for use}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zásoba|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorraad|m}}, {{t+|nl|reserve}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varasto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|réserve|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vorrat|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|stock|m}}, {{t+|it|partita|f}}, {{t+|it|riserva|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|備蓄|tr=[[びちく]], bichiku}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|비축|tr=[[備蓄]], bichug, -k}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|lager|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|lager|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reserva|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|запа́с|m}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|zdroj|m}}, {{t|sk|zásoba|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reserva|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lager|n}} (''especially if it is supposed to last a long time''), {{t+|sv|förråd|n}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|தொகை|sc=Taml}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|genus of flowers}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|violier}}, {{qualifier|ambiguous}} {{t+|nl|violet}}
* French: {{t+|fr|matthiole|f}}, {{t+|fr|violier|m}}, {{t|fr|giroflée des jardins|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|violacciocca|f}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|matiol}}, {{qualifier|Matthiola incana}} {{t|vo|hitüpamatiol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|farm animals}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bétail|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vieh|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ζώα|n-p|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|ζωντανά|n-p|sc=Grek}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|bestiame|m}}, {{t+|it|armento|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|가축|tr=[[家畜]], gachug, -k}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|gado|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скот|m|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|animals}}, {{t+|ru|поголо́вье|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|statok|m}}, {{t|sk|dobytok|m}} (larger animals)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|živina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ganado|m}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|தொகை|tr=tokai|sc=Taml}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|rolling stock}}

{{trans-top|finance: capital raised by a company}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|股票|tr=gǔpiào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|akcie|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aandeel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|osakepääoma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|action|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aktie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μετοχή|f|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|azione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|株|tr=[[かぶ]], kabu}}, {{t+|ja|株式|tr=[[かぶしき]], kabushiki}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|주식|tr=[[株式]], jusig, -k}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Aktie}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|aksje|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|aksje|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|а́кция|f}}, {{t+|ru|це́нная бума́га|f}}, {{t+|ru|фонд|m-p|alt=фо́нды|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|akcia|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|delnica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acción|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|aktie|c}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|தொகை|tr=tokai|sc=Taml}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of gun}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|pažba|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kolf|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tukki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|crosse|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kolben|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοντάκι|n|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|affusto|m}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|laide|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|raparapa}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|coronha|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прикла́д|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|pažba|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kolv|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bar through an anchor}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tukki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jas|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шток|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rudder stock}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|peräsinakseli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ста́пель|m|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|shipway}}, {{t|ru|ба́ллер|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|broth}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liemi}}
* German: {{t+|de|Brühe|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ζωμός|m|sc=Grek}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|stoc|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бульо́н|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|[[мясно́й]] [[отва́р]]|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|bujón|f}}, {{t|sk|vývar|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caldo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|buljong|c}}, {{t|sv|spad|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of paper}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|paperilaatu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χαρτόνι|n|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|necktie}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|га́лстук|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stack of game cards}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pioche|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μάνα|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|коло́да|f|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|cadang|alt=cadangan}} <!-- was "[[cadang|cadangan]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t+check|id|logistik}} <!-- was "[[logistik]]?" -->, {{t+check|id|saham}}, {{t+check|id|bursa}}
* Norman: {{t-check|nrf|chaud|m}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{qualifier|1}} {{t+check|pl|asortyment|m}}, {{qualifier|3}} {{t+check|pl|zapas|m}}, {{qualifier|4}} {{t-check|pl|inwentaż|m}}, {{t+check|pl|akcja|f}}, {{qualifier|6}} {{t+check|pl|udział|m}}, {{qualifier|7}} {{t+check|pl|kolba|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|existencia|f-p|alt=existencias}} <!-- was "[[existencia]]s" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t+check|es|surtido|m}}, {{t+check|es|reserva|f}}, {{t+check|es|ganado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[have]] on hand for [[sale]].
#: ''The store '''stocks''' all kinds of dried vegetables.''
# To provide with material requisites; to store; to fill; to supply.
#: ''to '''stock''' a warehouse with goods''
#: ''to '''stock''' a farm, i.e. to supply it with cattle and tools''
#: ''to '''stock''' land, i.e. to occupy it with a permanent growth, especially of grass''
# To allow (cows) to retain milk for twenty-four hours or more prior to sale.
# To put in the [[stocks]] as punishment.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To fit (an anchor) with a stock, or to fasten the stock firmly in place.
# {{context|card games|dated|lang=en}} To arrange cards in a certain manner for cheating purposes; to stack the deck.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|have on hand for sale}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|voorradig zijn}}, {{t|nl|in stock hebben}}, {{t|nl|op stock houden}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[pitää]] [[varastossa]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διαθέτω|sc=Grek}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lagra}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of a type normally available for [[purchase]]/in stock.
#: ''stock items''
#: ''stock sizes''
# {{context|racing|of a race car|lang=en}} Having the same configuration as cars sold to the non-racing public, or having been modified from such a car.
# Straightforward, ordinary, very basic.
#: ''That band is quite stock''
#: ''He gave me a stock answer''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|normally available for purchase}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|vooradig}}, {{t|nl|voorradige}}, {{t|nl|op stock}}, {{t|nl|in voorraad}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|varasto|alt=varasto-}}
* German: {{t+|de|vorrätig}}, {{t+|de|verfügbar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ετοιμοπαράδοτος|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|διαθέσιμος|m|sc=Grek}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|disponible}}, {{t|es|en almacén}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ordinary, very basic}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|στερεότυπος|m|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stereotyp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[DJIA]]
* [[foodstock]]

===Anagrams===
* [[tocks#English|tocks]]

[[Category:en:Firearms]]
[[Category:en:Liquids]]
[[Category:en:Operations]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|en|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-s|stockje}}

# [[#English|stock]], goods in supply
# basic [[capital]]
# [[share]]s (equity)

====Derived terms====
* [[stockdividend]] {{g2|n}}

===References===
* {{R:Koenen}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} [[#English|stock]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stɔk/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-stock.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|stock]], goods in supply

====Derived terms====
* [[stocker]]
* [[stockage]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|it}} [[#English|stock]].

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun}}

# [[#English|stock]], goods in supply, [[inventory]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|stokkr|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|sv}} {{m|gem-pro|*stukkaz||tree-trunk}}.

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# a [[log]] (''trunk of a dead tree'')
# a [[#English|stock]] (''of a gun'')

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

====Related terms====
* [[ekstock]]
* [[stocka]]
* [[stockeld]]
* [[Stockholm]]
* [[stockning]]
* [[timmerstock]]

====See also====
* [[balk]]
* [[bjälke]]
* [[flottning]]
* [[stam]]
* [[stuga]]
* [[timmer]]
* [[virke]]

[[ar:stock]]
[[cs:stock]]
[[de:stock]]
[[et:stock]]
[[el:stock]]
[[es:stock]]
[[eo:stock]]
[[fa:stock]]
[[fr:stock]]
[[ko:stock]]
[[hy:stock]]
[[io:stock]]
[[id:stock]]
[[it:stock]]
[[kn:stock]]
[[ka:stock]]
[[kk:stock]]
[[ku:stock]]
[[lo:stock]]
[[lt:stock]]
[[li:stock]]
[[hu:stock]]
[[mg:stock]]
[[ml:stock]]
[[my:stock]]
[[fj:stock]]
[[nl:stock]]
[[ja:stock]]
[[pl:stock]]
[[pt:stock]]
[[ru:stock]]
[[simple:stock]]
[[sh:stock]]
[[fi:stock]]
[[sv:stock]]
[[ta:stock]]
[[te:stock]]
[[chr:stock]]
[[tr:stock]]
[[vi:stock]]
[[zh:stock]]