==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=straight}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[streight]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|streght|lang=enm}}, the past participle of {{term|strechen||lang=enm|to stretch}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|streccan|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-straight.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{IPA|/stɹeɪt/}}
* {{rhymes|eɪt}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|strait}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Not [[crooked]] or [[bent]]; having a constant direction throughout its length. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1811''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''{{w|Sense and Sensibility}}'':
#*: I do not like crooked, twisted, blasted trees. I admire them much more if they are tall, '''straight''' and flourishing.
#* '''2011''', Adharanand Finn, ''{{w|The Guardian}}'', 22 Mar 2011:
#*: The other people, I presume, are supposed to be standing to attention, but they're all smiling at me. The lines are not even '''straight'''.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[stretched|Stretched]] out; fully [[extended]]. {{defdate|15th-16th c.}}
# Of a path, trajectory etc.: [[direct]], [[undeviating]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1913''', {{w|John Fox, Jr.}}, ''The Kentuckians'', p. 185:
#*: Now, as the world knows, the '''straightest''' way to the heart of the honest voter is through the women of the land, and the '''straightest''' way to the heart of the women is through the children of the land; and one method of winning both, with rural politicians, is to kiss the babies wide and far.
#* '''2000''', Allan Wood, ''Babe Ruth and the 1918 Red Sox'', p. 293:
#*: He had no time to set himself, but his throw was '''straight''' and true. Pick slid in, spikes high, and Schang tagged him in the ribs a foot or two from the plate.
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-06-29|volume=407|issue=8842|page=55|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/international/21580191-edward-snowdens-odyssey-leaves-america-nonplussed-and-its-allies-dismayed-russia-china Travels and travails]
|passage=Even without hovering drones, a lurking assassin, a thumping score and a denouement, the real-life story of Edward Snowden, a rogue spy on the run, could be '''straight''' out of the cinema. But, as with Hollywood, the subplots and exotic locations may distract from the real message: America’s discomfort and its foes’ glee.}}
# Free from [[dishonesty]]; [[honest]], law-abiding. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''1879''', {{w|Anthony Trollope}}, ''John Caldigate'':
#*: ‘It wasn't the proper thing, squoire. It wasn't '''straight'''.’
# Perfectly [[horizontal]] or [[vertical]]; not diagonal or oblique. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* '''2004''', Chris Weston, ''500 Digital Photography Hints, Tips, and Techniques'':
#*: There's nothing more annoying than taking a great picture, only to find that the horizon isn't '''straight'''.
# [[direct|Direct]] in communication; [[unevasive]], [[straightforward]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2003''', Rosie Cowan, ''{{w|The Guardian}}'', 24 Apr 2003:
#*: Tony Blair issued a direct challenge to the IRA yesterday when he demanded they give '''straight''' answers to three simple questions [...].
# {{context|tennis|lang=en}} Describing the [[set]]s in a [[match]] of which the winner did not lose a single set. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2011''', Press Association, 10 Feb 2011:
#*: Murray started well against Marcos Baghdatis before slumping to defeat in '''straight''' sets and the British No1 admitted he may not have been mentally prepared for the rigours of the ATP Tour after a gruelling start to 2011.
# In a row, in unbroken [[sequence]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* {{quote-news|year=2011|date=September 24|author=David Ornstein|work=BBC Sport
|title=[http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/14958156.stm Arsenal 3-0 Bolton]
|passage=It moves them from 17th to 12th on seven points, while Bolton are now bottom of the table with five '''straight''' defeats.}}
#* '''2008''', "Bad vibrations", ''{{w|The Economist}}'', 30 Oct 2008:
#*: As of October 29th, three-month dollar Libor (the rate at which banks borrow from each other) had fallen for 13 '''straight''' days and was nearly one-and-a-half percentage points below its October 10th level.
# In proper order; as it should be. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2007''', Grant Allen, ''What's Bred in the Bone'', p. 140:
#*: Oh, music, how he loved it; it seemed to set everything '''straight''' all at once in his head.
#* '''2010''', Paul Gallagher, ''{{w|The Observer}}'', 15 Aug 2010:
#*: "If you wonder why folks can't take the news seriously, here's Exhibit A," said one blogger. "Lord Jesus, how can the reporter file this story with a '''straight''' face?"
# Of [[spirit]]s: [[undiluted]], [[unmixed]]; [[neat]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2003''', Ron Jordan, ''Considerations'':
#*: Real cowboys know how to rope, ride a horse and drink whisky '''straight'''.
#* '''2003''', Lowell Edmunds, ''Martini, Straight Up'', p. 94:
#*: The Martini is still in ''belief'', if not in fact, the centerpiece of a rite, and people who would not drink '''straight''' gin on the rocks will drink '''straight''' gin on the rocks if it is called a Martini.
# {{context|cricket|lang=en}} Describing the [[bat]] as held so as not to [[incline]] to either side; on, or near a line running between the two [[wicket]]s. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2011''', Alan Gardner & Barney Ronay, ''{{w|The Guardian}}'', 15 Mar 2011:
#*: Steyn continues and it's all a bit more orderly down his end as O'Brien defends the first three balls with a '''straight''' bat and a respectful dip of the head.
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} [[conventional|Conventional]], socially acceptable; [[unadventurous]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''1994''', Jarvis Cocker, ‘Do You Remember the First Time?’:
#*: You say you've got to go home. Well at least there's someone there that you can talk to. And you never have to face up to the night on your own. Jesus, it must be great to be '''straight'''.
#* '''1998''', Eileen Fitzpatrick & Dominic Pride, ''Billboard'', 17 Oct 1998:
#*: ‘Her last album was a bit too '''straight''',’ he says, ‘but this one puts her in a more contemporary framework and softens her music.’
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} Not using [[alcohol]], [[drugs]] etc. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''2001''', Ruella Frank, ''Body of Evidence'', p. 28:
#*: ‘Alex's dad used a lot of drugs. He's been '''straight''' for years now, but it took a long time for him to be able to deal with his feelings.’
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} [[heterosexual|Heterosexual]].
#* '''2007''', Layla Kumari, ''{{w|The Guardian}}'', 17 Sep 2007:
#*: Some of my friends - gay and '''straight''' - seem unable to understand the close but platonic nature of my and Gian's relationship, but have been supportive.
#* '''2011''', Jodi Picoult, ''Sing You Home'', p. 273:
#*: Angela smiles. ‘I'm '''straight''', Zoe, and I'm happily married.’
# {{context|colloquial|slang|pejorative|lang=en}} [[boring|Boring]], [[unimaginative]], [[mainstream]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* {{w|Wavy Gravy}}
#*: ‘Sure, I could have done it different{{...}}put my clown in a closet and dressed up in '''straight''' clothing. I could have compromised my essence, and swallowed my soul.’
#* '''1989''', Gus Van Sant, ''Drugstore Cowboy''.
#*: ‘For all the boredom the '''straight''' life brings, it's not too bad.’
#: {{usex|My boyfriend is '''straight'''.|lang=en}}
# {{context|obsolete|rare|lang=en}} [[strait|Strait]]; [[narrow]].
#* Sir J. Mandeville
#*: Egypt is a long country, but it is '''straight''', that is to say, narrow.
# {{context|US|politics|lang=en}} Making no exceptions or deviations in one's support of the organization and candidates of a political party.
#: ''a '''straight''' Republican; a '''straight''' Democrat''
# {{context|US|politics|lang=en}} Containing the names of all the regularly nominated candidates of a party and no others.
#: ''a '''straight''' ballot''

====Antonyms====
* [[curved]]

====Usage notes====
* Straight is sometimes humorously used as meaning low quality by homosexuals and bisexuals, rather than [[gay]].

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''straight''}}
* [[damn straight]]
* [[go straight]]
* [[scare straight]]
* [[straight A]]
* [[straight-acting]]
* [[straight and narrow]]
* [[straight arm]] / [[straight-arm]]
* [[straight as an arrow]]
* [[straightaway]]
* [[straight bat]]
* [[straight dinkum]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[straightedge]] / [[straight edge]]
* [[straighten]]
* [[straight face]]
* [[straight-faced]]
* [[straight flush]]
* [[straightforward]] / [[straight-forward]]
* [[straight from the horse's mouth]]
* [[straight from the shoulder]]
* [[straight hit]]
* [[straightjacket]]
* [[straight line]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[straightly]]
* [[straight man]]
* [[straightness]]
* [[straight, no chaser]]
* [[straight out of the chute]]
* [[straight shooter]]
* [[straight ticket]]
* [[straight up]]
* [[straightway]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not crooked or bent}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|drejtë}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مستفيم|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ուղիղ|tr=uġiġ}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|ãndreptu}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|derechu}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ဖြောင့်|tr=hpyaung.|sc=Mymr}}, {{t+|my|စင်း|tr=sin:|sc=Mymr}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|nanatolo}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|直|tr=zhí|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přímý|m}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|drat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|recht}}, {{t+|nl|rechte}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|rekta}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suora}}
* French: {{t+|fr|droit}}, {{t+|fr|rectiligne}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|dret}}
* German: {{t+|de|gerade}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ίσιος|m|tr=ísios}}, {{t+|el|ευθύς|m|tr=efthýs}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|सीधा|tr=sīdhā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|egyenes}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|beinn}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|lurus}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|directe}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|díreach}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|dritto}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|真直ぐ|tr=まっすぐな, massugu-na|alt=真直ぐな|sc=Jpan}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ckb|ڕێک|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|riicht}}, {{t|lb|gerode}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|прав|m|tr=prav}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|kʼézdon}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|dret}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مستقیم|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prosty}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reto}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|drept}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|dretg}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прямой|tr=prjamój}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|straucht}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dìreach}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|drittu}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recto}}, {{t+|es|liso}} {{qualifier|hair}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rak}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|سیدھا|tr=sīdhā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|dirito}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|droet}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|direct, truthful, frank}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ազնիվ|tr=azniv}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přímý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|zoals het hoort}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suora}}, {{t+|fi|rehellinen}}, {{t+|fi|vilpitön}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comme il faut}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufrecht}}, {{t+|de|aufrichtig}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|egyenes}}, {{t+|hu|őszinte}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|díreach}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|retto}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|実直な|tr=jicchoku na}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|отворен|m|tr=ótvoren}}, {{t|mk|искрен|m|tr=ískren}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|رک|tr=rok|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prosty}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|direto}}, {{t+|pt|honesto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прямой|tr=prjamój}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|straucht}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dìreach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|franco}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|as it should be}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|nanatolo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kunto|alt=kunnossa}}, {{t+|fi|järjestys|alt=järjestyksessä}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|правилен|m|tr=právilen}}, {{t|mk|исправен|m|tr=íspraven}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|direito}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|правильный|tr=právil'nyj}}, {{t+|ru|нормальный|tr=normál'nyj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|directo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|undiluted}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|čistý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|puur}}, {{t+|nl|pure}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|raaka}}, {{t+|fi|laimentamaton}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pur}}, {{t+|fr|pure}}
* German: {{t|de|unverdünnt}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκέτος|tr=skétos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|liscio}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ストレートの|tr=sutorēto no}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|чист|m|tr=číst}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|чистый|tr=čístyj}}, {{t+|ru|неразбавленный|tr=nerazbávlennyj}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|straucht}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having all cylinders in a single row}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suora}}
* Italian: {{t|it|in linea}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|直列の|tr=chokuretsu no}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prosty}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|conventional}}
* Italian: {{t|it|convenzionale}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|heterosexual}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|malgeja}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hetero}}, {{t+|fi|heteroseksuaali}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hétéro}}
* German: {{t+|de|hetero}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|heteró}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|díreach}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|eterosessuale}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ノンケの|tr=nonke no}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|hetero}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|hétero}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|slang, noun}} {{t+|ru|натурал|m|tr=naturál|sc=Cyrl}}, {{qualifier|literally, noun is used}} {{t+|ru|гетеросексуал|m|tr=getɛrosɛksuál|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hetero}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|on, or near a line running between the two wickets}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{t|ar|مستقيم|tr=mustaqí:m|sc=Arab}}
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: {{t+|cmn|直|tr=zhí de|alt=直的|sc=Hani}} <!-- was "[[直]]的" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t|cmn|笔直的|tr=bǐzhí de|sc=Hani}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|diritto}}, {{t+|it|liscio}}, {{t+|it|subito}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: {{t|ko|똑바른|tr=ggokbareun|sc=Kore}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|derecho}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: {{t+|te|తిన్నని|tr=tinnani|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|సరళమైన|tr=saraLamaina|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|సూటి|tr=sooTi|sc=Telu}}
* {{ttbc|cy}}: {{t|cy|uniawn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# Of a direction relative to the subject, precisely; as if following a direct line.
#: ''The door will be '''straight''' ahead of you.''
#: ''Go '''straight''' back.''
# Directly; without [[pause]], [[delay]] or [[detour]].
#: ''On arriving at work, he went '''straight''' to his office.''
#* Addison
#*: I know thy generous temper well; / Fling but the appearance of dishonour on it, / It '''straight''' takes fire, and mounts into a blaze.
# Continuously; without [[interruption]] or [[pause]].
#: ''He claims he can hold his breath for three minutes '''straight'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in a forward direction}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přímo}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rechtdoor}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suoraan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tout droit}}
* German: {{t+|de|geradeaus}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|真っすぐに|tr=massugu ni}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|право|tr=právo}}
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: {{t+|cmn|直|tr=zhí|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|直接地|tr=zhíjiē de|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|adderitto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прямо|tr=pr'ámo}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|straucht}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dìreach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|derecho}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rakt fram}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తిన్నగా|tr=tinnagaa|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|సూటిగా|tr=sootigaa|sc=Telu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|directly; without pause, delay or detour}}
* French: {{t+|fr|directement}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|direto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A part of a [[racecourse]], [[running]] [[track]] or other road etc that is not [[curved]].
# A [[heterosexual]].
#: ''My friends call '''straights''' "heteros".''
# In [[poker]], five cards in [[sequence]].
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} A [[cigarette]], particularly one containing [[tobacco]] instead of [[marijuana]]. Also [[straighter#Noun|straighter]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* ['''1923''', J[oseph] Manchon, ''Le slang : lexique de l'anglais familier et vulgaire : précédé d'une étude sur la pronunciation et la grammaire populaires'', p. 296:
#*: A straight = a straighter = a straight cut, une cigarette en tabac de Virginie.]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|heterosexual}} [[hetero]], [[breeder]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|part of a racecourse or running track that is not curved}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|rovinka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suora}}
* French: {{t|fr|ligne droite|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|rettilineo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|racecourse}} {{t|ja|ストレート|tr=sutorēto}}, {{qualifier|running track}} {{t+|ja|直線|tr=chokusen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reta|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прямая|f|tr=pr'amája}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|raksträcka|c}}, {{t+|sv|raka|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|[[heterosexual]]}}

{{trans-top|five cards in sequence}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|սթրեյթ|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|սթրիթ|sc=Armn}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|escala|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|postupka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|straat|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suora}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quinte|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Straße|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κέντα|f|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sor}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|röð|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|sraith|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ストレート|tr=sutorēto}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tōtika}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|strit|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|стрейт|m|tr=strejt|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|стрит|m|tr=strit|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stege|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: {{t+|nl|recht}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[straighten]].
#: {{rfquotek|A. Smith}}

[[Category:English terms with homophones]]

[[ar:straight]]
[[ca:straight]]
[[cs:straight]]
[[cy:straight]]
[[de:straight]]
[[et:straight]]
[[es:straight]]
[[eo:straight]]
[[fa:straight]]
[[fr:straight]]
[[ko:straight]]
[[hy:straight]]
[[hr:straight]]
[[io:straight]]
[[id:straight]]
[[it:straight]]
[[kn:straight]]
[[kk:straight]]
[[ku:straight]]
[[li:straight]]
[[hu:straight]]
[[mg:straight]]
[[ml:straight]]
[[my:straight]]
[[fj:straight]]
[[nl:straight]]
[[no:straight]]
[[pl:straight]]
[[ru:straight]]
[[simple:straight]]
[[fi:straight]]
[[sv:straight]]
[[tl:straight]]
[[ta:straight]]
[[te:straight]]
[[th:straight]]
[[chr:straight]]
[[tr:straight]]
[[vi:straight]]
[[zh:straight]]