{{also|Strafe}}
==English==

===Etymology===
The British saw {{etyl|de|en}} {{m|de|strafe||to punish}}, a conjugated form of {{m|de|strafen||to punish}},  in German expressions like "''Gott strafe England''" ("may God punish England") during the First World War.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}, {{a|US}} {{IPA|/stɹeɪf/|lang=en}}
* {{a|less commonly also}} {{IPA|/strɑf/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪf|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|straf}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To attack (ground targets) with automatic gunfire from a low-flying aircraft.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|video games}} to [[sidestep]]; to move sideways without turning. A core mechanic of most [[first-person shooter]]s.
#* '''2001''', Jana Hallford, ''Swords and circuitry: a designer's guide to computer role playing games''
#*: If the NPC is close to the player, he may also try using the tried-and-true ''Quake'' circle-'''strafing''' technique.
#* '''2007''', Stephen Cawood, Pat McGee, ''Microsoft XNA Game Studio Creator's Guide''
#*: A strafe is a side-to-side camera movement. If you're a fan of first-person shooter games, you know how fundamental '''strafing''' can be to a game.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An attack of machine-gun or cannon fire from a low-flying aircraft.
# {{lb|en|video games}} A sideways movement without turning.
#* '''2004''', Marc Saltzman, ''Game Creation and Careers: Insider Secrets from Industry Experts''
#*: We also have added a new game control called the "defensive '''strafe'''," in which the user can press a button and stay facing forward.

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|afters}}, {{l|en|farest}}, {{l|en|faster}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈʃtʁaːfə/|lang=de}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# first person singular and imperative of [[strafen]]

[[ar:strafe]]
[[de:strafe]]
[[et:strafe]]
[[fr:strafe]]
[[ko:strafe]]
[[ku:strafe]]
[[hu:strafe]]
[[mg:strafe]]
[[ml:strafe]]
[[ja:strafe]]
[[pl:strafe]]
[[fi:strafe]]
[[sv:strafe]]
[[ta:strafe]]
[[vi:strafe]]