==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|striken|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term/t|ang|strīcan}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*strīkaną}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|strijken|lang=nl}}, German {{term|streichen|lang=de}} and {{term|streiken|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|stryge|lang=da}}, Icelandic {{term|strýkja|lang=is}}, {{term|strýkva|lang=is}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stɹaɪk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-strike.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪk}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|strikes|striking|struck|'''[[struck]]''' or '''[[stricken]]'''}}

# {{context|transitive|sometimes with [[out]] or [[through]]|lang=en}} To [[delete]] or [[cross]] out; to [[scratch]] or [[eliminate]].
#: {{usex|Please '''strike''' the last sentence.|lang=en}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[hit]].
#: {{usex|'''Strike''' the door sharply with your foot and see if it comes loose.|lang=en}}
#: ''A bullet '''struck''' him.''
#: ''The ship '''struck''' a reef.''
#* Shakespeare
#*: He at Philippi kept / His sword e'en like a dancer; while I '''struck''' / The lean and wrinkled Cassius.
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To give, as a blow; to impel, as with a blow; to give a force to; to dash; to cast.
#* Bible, Exodus xii. 7
#*: They shall take of the blood, and '''strike''' it on the two sideposts.
#* Byron
#*: Who would be free, themselves must '''strike''' the blow.
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To thrust in; to cause to enter or penetrate.
#: ''A tree '''strikes''' its roots deep.''
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To punish; to afflict; to smite.
#* Bible, Proverbs xvii. 26
#*: To punish the just is not good, nor '''strike''' princes for equity.
# {{cx|intransitive|lang=en}} To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows.
#: ''A hammer '''strikes''' against the bell of a clock.''
#* Shakespeare
#*: '''Strike''' now, or else the iron cools.
# To touch; to act by appulse.
#* John Locke
#*: Hinder light but from '''striking''' on it [porphyry], and its colours vanish.# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To carry out a violent or illegal action.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To act suddenly, especially in a violent or criminal way.
#: {{usex|The bank robber '''struck''' on the 2nd and 5th of May.|lang=en}}
# {{context|transitive|figurative|lang=en}} To impinge upon.
#: ''The first thing to '''strike''' my eye was a beautiful pagoda.''
#* {{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=1
|passage=In the old days, to my commonplace and unobserving mind, he gave no evidences of genius whatsoever. He never read me any of his manuscripts,&nbsp;[&hellip;], and therefore my lack of detection of his promise may in some degree be pardoned. But he had then none of the oddities and mannerisms which I hold to be inseparable from genius, and which '''struck''' my attention in after days when I came in contact with the Celebrity.}}
#: {{usex|Tragedy '''struck''' when his brother was killed in a bush fire.|lang=en}}
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To stop working to achieve better working conditions.
#: {{usex|The workers '''struck''' for a week before the new contract went through.|lang=en}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[impress]], [[seem]] or [[appear]] (to).
#* '''1895''', {{w|H. G. Wells}}, ''{{w|The Time Machine}}'' Chapter X
#*: I fancied at first the stuff was paraffin wax, and smashed the jar accordingly. But the odor of camphor was unmistakable. It '''struck''' me as singularly odd, that among the universal decay, this volatile substance had chanced to survive, perhaps through many thousand years.
#: {{usex|Golf has always '''struck''' me as a waste of time.|lang=en}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[manufacture]], as by [[stamping]].
#: {{usex|We will '''strike''' a medal in your honour.|lang=en}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To take down, especially in the following contexts:
## {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To [[haul]] down or [[lower]] (a [[flag]], [[mast]], etc.)
### {{context|nautical|by extension|lang=en}} To [[capitulate]]; to signal a [[surrender]] by hauling down the colours.
###: ''The frigate has '''struck,''' sir! We've beaten them, the lily-livers!''
###* Bishop Burnet
###*: The English ships of war should not '''strike''' in the Danish seas.
## To dismantle and take away (a theater set; a tent; etc.).
##* '''1851''', {{w|Herman Melville}}, ''{{w||Moby Dick}}'', [[s:Moby-Dick/Chapter 22|chapter 22]]
##*: “'''Strike''' the tent there!”—was the next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to '''strike''' the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
# {{cx|intransitive|dated|lang=en}} To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded.
#: ''The ship '''struck''' in the night.''
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To cause or produce by a stroke, or suddenly, as by a stroke.
#: ''to '''strike''' a light''
#* Milton
#*: Waving wide her myrtle wand, / She '''strikes''' a universal peace through sea and land.
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To cause to [[ignite]] by [[friction]].
#: ''to '''strike''' a match''
# {{cx|transitive|lang=en}} To cause to sound by one or more beats; to indicate or notify by audible strokes. Of a [[clock]], to [[announce]] (an hour of the day), usually by one or more sounds.
#: ''The clock '''struck''' twelve.''
#: ''The drums '''strike''' up a march.''
# {{cx|intransitive|lang=en}} To sound by percussion, with blows, or as if with blows.
#* Byron
#*: A deep sound '''strikes''' like a rising knell.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[create]] an [[impression]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1963|author={{w|Margery Allingham}}|title={{w|The China Governess}}
|chapter=20|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL2004261W
|passage=The story '''struck''' the depressingly familiar note with which true stories ring in the tried ears of experienced policemen. No one queried it. It was in the classic pattern of human weakness, mean and embarrassing and sad.}}
#: {{usex|The news '''struck''' a sombre chord.|lang=en}}
# {{context|sports|lang=en}} To [[score]] a [[goal]].
#* {{quote-news|year=2010|date=December 28|author=Marc Vesty
|work=BBC|title=[http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9306533.stm Stoke 0-2 Fulham]
|passage=Defender Chris Baird '''struck''' twice early in the first half to help Fulham move out of the relegation zone and ease the pressure on manager Mark Hughes.}}
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To [[set off]] on a [[walk]] or [[trip]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=1
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]|chapter=1
|passage=I stumbled along through the young pines and huckleberry bushes. Pretty soon I '''struck''' into a sort of path that, I cal'lated, might lead to the road I was hunting for. It twisted and turned, and, the first thing I knew, made a sudden bend around a bunch of bayberry scrub and opened out into a big clear space like a lawn.}}
#: {{usex|They '''struck''' off along the river.|lang=en}}
# {{cx|intransitive|lang=en}} To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate.
#* Bible, Proverbs vii. 23
#*: till a dart '''strike''' through his liver
#* Dryden
#*: Now and then a glittering beam of wit or passion '''strikes''' through the obscurity of the poem.
# {{cx|dated|lang=en}} To break forth; to commence suddenly; with ''into''.
#: ''to '''strike''' into reputation; to '''strike''' into a run''
# {{cx|intransitive|lang=en}} To become attached to something; said of the [[spat]] of [[oyster]]s.
# {{cx|intransitive|UK|obsolete|slang|lang=en}} To [[steal]] [[money]].
#: {{rfquotek|Nares}}
# {{cx|transitive|UK|obsolete|slang|lang=en}} To take forcibly or fraudulently.
#: ''to '''strike''' money''
# To make a sudden impression upon, as if by a blow; to affect with some strong emotion.
#: ''to '''strike''' the mind with surprise; to '''strike''' somebody with wonder, alarm, dread, or horror''
#* Atterbury
#*: Nice works of art '''strike''' and surprise us most on the first view.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: They please as beauties, here as wonders '''strike'''.
# To affect by a sudden impression or impulse.
#: ''The proposed plan '''strikes''' me favourably.''
#: ''May the Lord '''strike''' down those sinners!''
#: ''I was '''struck''' dumb with astonishment.''
# To make and ratify.
#: ''to '''strike''' a bargain''
# To [[level]] (a measure of grain, salt, etc.) with a straight instrument, scraping off what is above the level of the top.
# {{cx|masonry|lang=en}} To cut off (a mortar joint, etc.) [[even]] with the face of the wall, or inward at a slight angle.
# To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly.
#: ''My eye '''struck''' a strange word in the text.''
#: ''They soon '''struck''' the trail.''
# {{cx|slang|archaic|lang=en}} To borrow money from; to make a demand upon.
#: ''He '''struck''' a friend for five dollars.''
# To [[lade]] into a [[cooler]], as a [[liquor]].
#: {{rfquotek|B. Edwards}}
# To stroke or pass lightly; to wave.
#* Bible, 2 Kings v. 11
#*: Behold, I thought, He will {{...}} '''strike''' his hand over the place, and recover the leper.
# {{cx|obsolete|lang=en}} To advance; to cause to go forward; used only in the past participle.
#* Shakespeare
#*: well '''struck''' in years

====Usage notes====
Custom influences which participle is used in set phrases and specific contexts, but in general, the past participle "struck" is more common when speaking of intransitive actions (e.g. ''He'd struck it rich'', or ''He's struck out on his own'', etc.), while "stricken" is more commonly used for transitive actions, especially constructions where the subject is the object of an implied action (e.g. ''The Court has stricken the statement from the record'', or ''The city was stricken with disease'', etc.)

====Derived terms====
* [[striking distance]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to delete}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|uitwis}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ջնջել|tr=ǰnǰel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|doorstrepen}}, {{t|nl|uitwissen}}, {{t+|nl|wissen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|poistaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|biffer}}
* German: {{t+|de|streichen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διαγράφω|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cancellare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|消す|tr=kesu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|വെട്ടുക|tr=vettuka}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|stryke}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|eliminar}}, {{t+|pt|deletar}}, {{t+|pt|excluir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вычёркивать|impf|tr=vyčórkivat’}}, {{t+|ru|вычеркнуть|pf|tr=výčerknut’}}, {{t+|ru|зачёркивать|impf|tr=začórkivat’}}, {{t+|ru|зачеркнуть|pf|tr=začerknút’}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|hlakola}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tachar}}, {{t+|es|borrar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stryka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hit}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|slaan}}
* Akkadian: {{t|akk|𒉺|tr=maḫāṣu, SÌG|sc=Xsux}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ضرب|tr=Dáraba}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|խփել|tr=xp'el}}, {{t|hy|հարվածել|tr=harvaçel}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|біць|impf|tr=bicʹ}}, {{t|be|пабіць|pf|tr=pabícʹ}}; {{t|be|удараць|impf|tr=udarácʹ}}, {{t|be|ўдараць|impf|tr=ŭdarácʹ}}, {{t|be|ударыць|pf|tr=udáryc'}}, {{t|be|ўдарыць|pf|tr=ŭdáryc'}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|удрям|tr=údrjam|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|打擊|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|打击|tr=dǎjī|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slaan}}, {{t+|nl|treffen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|frapi}}, {{t|eo|bati}}, {{t+|eo|trafi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyödä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|frapper}}, {{t+|fr|battre}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χτυπώ|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|להכות|tr=to strike|sc=Hebr}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|frapar}}, {{t+|io|batar}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|menabrak}}, {{t+|id|tabrak}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|buail}}, {{t|ga|failp}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|colpire}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|打つ|tr=utsu}}, {{t|ja|攻撃する|tr=kōgeki suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|porter un coup}}
* Latin: {{t|la|pulsō}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|അടിയ്ക്കുക|tr=atiykkuka}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|slå}}, {{t+|no|ramme}}
* Old Prussian: {{t|prg|buktun}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acertar}}, {{t+|pt|golpear}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бить|impf|tr=bit’}}, {{t+|ru|ударять|impf|tr=udarját’}}, {{t+|ru|ударить|pf|tr=udárit’}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|buail}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|ударити}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|udariti}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|biś}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|shapa}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|golpear}}, {{t+|es|pegar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đánh}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|taro}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|שלאגן|tr=shlogn|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to occur suddenly}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πλήττω|tr=plítto|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to stop working to achieve better working conditions}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|staak}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|staken}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|striki}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lakkoilla}}
* German: {{t+|de|streiken}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απεργώ|tr=apergo|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t|it|scioperare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ストライキを起こす|tr=sutoraiki wo okosu}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|streike}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|strajkować}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|parar}}, {{t|pt|paralizar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|grevă}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бастовать|impf|tr=bastovát’}}, {{t+|ru|забастовать|pf|tr=zabastovát’}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|štrajkati}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|štrajkovať}}
* Sotho: {{t|st|seteraeka}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|parar|alt=parar el trabajo}}, {{t|es|hacer la huelga}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mgomo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|strejka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to surrender}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|de vlag strijken}}
* German: {{t|de|die Fahne streichen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υποστέλλω|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|arrendersi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|impressionar}}, {{t+|pt|parecer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сдаваться|impf|tr=sdavát’s’a}}, {{t+|ru|сдаться|pf|tr=sdát’s’a}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|arriar}}, {{t+|es|bajar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to impress, to seem}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|připadnout}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schijnen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vaikuttaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|scheinen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εντυπωσιάζω|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sembrare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|slå}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поражать|impf|tr=poražát’}}, {{t+|ru|поразить|pf|tr=porazít’}}, {{t+|ru|потрясать|impf|tr=potrjasát’}}, {{t+|ru|потрясти|pf|tr=potrjastí}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|buail air}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ocurrirse}}, {{t+|es|parecer}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a medal etc}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|slaan}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slaan}}
* Finnish: lyödä mitali
* German: {{t+|de|prägen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|coniare}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|чеканить|impf|tr=čekánit’}}, {{t+|ru|отчеканить|pf|tr=otčekánit’}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laskea}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спустить|impf|tr=spustít’}}, {{t+|ru|спускать|pf|tr=spuskát’}}, {{t+|ru|убирать|impf|tr=ubirát’}}, {{t+|ru|убрать|pf|tr=ubrát’}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[doorhalen]] (1), [[slaan]] (2), [[toeslaan]] (2)
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[forigi]] (1), [[frapi]] (2), [[bati]] (2), [[striki]] (3)
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[rayer]] (1), barrer (1), biffer (1), frapper (2), battre(2), [[faire la grève]] (3), [[se mettre en grève]] (3), baisser pavillon ''(fig.; wfw: to lower the flag)'' (4), baisser la queue ''(wfw: to lower one's tail: as a chastised dog would)'' (4), frapper (5), frapper (6), amener ''(normally)'' (7), affaler ''(fast: e.g. a sail in a gale)'' (7)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tubruk|menubruk]], [[serang|menyerang]]
* {{ttbc|roa-jer}}: {{t|roa-jer|capuchi}}, {{t|roa-jer|satchi}}
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[hnossian]] (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[strike a balance]]
* [[strike down]]
* [[strike gold]]
* [[strike out]] ''baseball and slang''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} a status resulting from a [[batter]] swinging and missing a [[pitch]], or  not swinging at a pitch in the [[strike zone]], or hitting a [[foul ball]] that is not caught
# {{context|bowling|lang=en}} the act of knocking down all ten pins in on the first roll of a [[frame]]
# a work stoppage (or otherwise concerted stoppage of an activity) as a form of protest
# a blow or application of physical force against something
# {{context|finance|lang=en}} In an [[option]] contract, the price at which the holder buys or sells if they choose to [[exercise]] the option.
# An old English measure of corn equal to the bushel.
#:* '''1882''': The sum is also used for the quarter, and the '''strike''' for the bushel. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 207.
# {{context|cricket|lang=en}} the status of being the [[batsman]] that the [[bowler]] is bowling at
#:* ''The batsmen have crossed, and Dhoni now has the '''strike'''.''
# the primary face of a hammer, opposite the [[peen]]
# {{context|geology|lang=en}} the compass direction of the line of intersection between a rock layer and the surface of the Earth.
# An instrument with a straight edge for levelling a measure of grain, salt, etc., scraping off what is above the level of the top; a [[strickle]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality.
#* Sir Walter Scott
#*: Three hogsheads of ale of the first '''strike'''.
# An iron [[pale]] or [[standard]] in a [[gate]] or [[fence]].
# {{context|ironworking|lang=en}} A [[puddler]]'s [[stirrer]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} The [[extortion]] of [[money]], or the attempt to extort money, by threat of injury; [[blackmail]].
# The [[discovery]] of a [[source]] of something.
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-08-03|volume=408|issue=8847|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21582516-worlds-thirst-oil-could-be-nearing-peak-bad-news-producers-excellent Yesterday’s fuel]
|passage=The dawn of the oil age was fairly recent. Although the stuff was used to waterproof boats in the Middle East 6,000 years ago, extracting it in earnest began only in 1859 after an oil '''strike''' in Pennsylvania. The first barrels of crude fetched $18 (around $450 at today’s prices).}}

{{Webster 1913}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|work stoppage}} [[industrial peace]]; [[lockout]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''rent'' (noun)}}
* [[checkerboard strike]]
* [[hunger strike]]
* [[general strike]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[rent strike]]
* [[sit-down strike]]
* [[striker]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[strike out]]
* [[wildcat strike]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in baseball}}
* German: {{t+|de|Strike|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in bowling}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kaato}}
* French: {{t+|fr|strike|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Strike|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ストライク|tr=sutoraiku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|스트라이크|tr=seuteuraikeu|sc=Kore}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|страйк|m|tr=strajk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|work stoppage}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|staking}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اضراب|m|tr=ʾiḍrāb|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|գործադուլ|tr=gorcadul|sc=Armn}}
* Asturian: {{t+|ast|güelga|f}}
* Azeri: {{t|az|tətil}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|greba}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|забастоўка|f|tr=zabastóŭka|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|страйк|m|tr=strajk|sc=Cyrl}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|harz-labour}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|стачка|f|tr=stáčka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|vaga|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|罷工|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|罢工|tr=bàgōng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|stávka|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|strejke}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|staking}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|striko}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|streik}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lakko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|grève|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|folga|f}}, {{t|gl|paro|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Streik|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απεργία|f|tr=apergía|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|שְׁבִיתָה|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|हड़ताल|f|tr=haṛtāl|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sztrájk}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|verkfall}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|striko}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mogok}}, {{t+|id|pemogokan}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sciopero}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|general}} {{t+|ja|ストライキ|tr=sutoraiki}}, {{qualifier|law}} {{t+|ja|同盟罷業|tr=dōmē-higyō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|ереуіл|tr=yerewil|sc=Cyrl}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|파업|tr=pa-eop|sc=Kore}} ({{t+|ko|罷業|sc=Kore}})
* Latin: {{t+|la|operistitium|n}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|streiks|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|streikas|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|mogok}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|സമരം|tr=samaram}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|streik|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|اعتصاب|tr=e'tesâb|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|strajk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|greve|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|grevă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|забастовка|f|tr=zabastóvka}}, {{t+|ru|стачка|tr=stáčka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|stailc|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|штрајк|m}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|štrajk|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|štrajk|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|stavka|f}}
* Sotho: {{t|st|seteraeke}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|huelga|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|migomo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|strejk}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|సమ్మె|tr=samme}}
* Thai: {{t|th|นัดหยุดงาน|tr=nát yùt ngaan|sc=Thai}}, {{t|th|การนัดหยุดงาน|tr=gaan nát yùt ngaan|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|grev}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|страйк|m|tr=strajk|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|забастовка|f|tr=zabastóvka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|ہڑتال|f|tr=haṛtāl|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đình công}} ({{t|vi|停工}}), {{t+|vi|bãi công|alt=sự bãi công}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|physical force}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|frapo}}, {{t|eo|bato}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup|m}}, {{t+|fr|frappe|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χτύπημα|n|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|frapo}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ataque|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|удар|m|tr=udár|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|bualadh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[maltrafo]] (1), [[plentrafo]] (2)
* {{ttbc|lb}}: [[Streik]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[trikes#English|trikes]]

[[Category:English contranyms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[#English|strike]] (in baseball and ten-pin bowling)

[[cs:strike]]
[[da:strike]]
[[de:strike]]
[[et:strike]]
[[el:strike]]
[[es:strike]]
[[eo:strike]]
[[eu:strike]]
[[fa:strike]]
[[fr:strike]]
[[gl:strike]]
[[ko:strike]]
[[hy:strike]]
[[hr:strike]]
[[io:strike]]
[[it:strike]]
[[kn:strike]]
[[sw:strike]]
[[ku:strike]]
[[lo:strike]]
[[lt:strike]]
[[li:strike]]
[[hu:strike]]
[[mg:strike]]
[[ml:strike]]
[[my:strike]]
[[nl:strike]]
[[ja:strike]]
[[pl:strike]]
[[pt:strike]]
[[ru:strike]]
[[simple:strike]]
[[fi:strike]]
[[sv:strike]]
[[tl:strike]]
[[ta:strike]]
[[te:strike]]
[[chr:strike]]
[[uk:strike]]
[[vi:strike]]
[[zh:strike]]