==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|strine|'Strine|'strine}}

===Etymology===
From a [[pronunciation spelling]] of {{m|en|Australian}} spoken with this accent. Coined by “[[w:Afferbeck Lauder|Afferbeck Lauder]]” (Alastair Ardoch Morrison) and popularised with his 1965 book ''Let Stalk Strine''. Australian from 1965.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Aus}} {{IPA|en|/stɹɑen/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/stɹaɪn/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-Strine.wav|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|aɪn|s=1}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{lb|en|Australia|New Zealand|UK|informal|jocular}} [[broad|Broad]] [[Australian English]] described as if it were a different language.
#* '''1982''', J. C. Wells, ''Accents of English'', Volume 3: ''Beyond the British Isles'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=484eVQ7t8TMC&pg=PA595&lpg=PA595&dq=%22Strine%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=xEZvqwjDlg&sig=iydW0gQCXXNgBEnerjafQBbJgb8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7DdoUJ-UJ4uRiQfDl4DgDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22Strine%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 595],
#*: Several '''Strine''' forms depend on an assumed equivalence between '''Strine''' fortis consonants and Cultivated/RP lenis ones, thus ''garbler mince'' (couple of minutes), ''egg jelly'' (actually). It is doubtful whether this reflects any real phonetic difference.
#* '''1989''' July 8, ''Ariadne'', ''[[w:New Scientist|New Scientist]]'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=asaPMS483OsC&pg=PA120&lpg=PA120&dq=%22Strine%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=zVBvfFNWBP&sig=jGb3T4AjIjIF7OEmtQK7tohJvog&hl=en&sa=X&ei=O0JoUJSnAeLYigf8lYDgDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22Strine%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 120],
#*: A team at Griffith University in Bribane is working on what the university′s newspaper callls a bionic snorter. Translating into English from '''Strine''', this is a bionic hooter, conk, bugle or nose.
#* '''1992''', Gillian Bottomley, ''From Another Place: Migration and the Politics of Culture'', 2009, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=gahpgrhou58C&pg=PA133&lpg=PA133&dq=%22Strine%22+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&source=bl&ots=pZq6ysCa56&sig=GW-kJ5x97eRDlNwAkOYDTuu_PgY&hl=en&sa=X&ei=rkVoUMHYFYmDiQfVn4HQDw&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22Strine%22%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 133],
#*: Dell′Oso describes the encounter of an Asian woman with a surly bus driver whose only language is '''Strine''' (a form of Australian English, barely intelligible to many of the native-speakers).

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|Murican}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|Strayan}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|Strines}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=einrst|Insert|Stiner|Tiners|estrin|inerts|insert|inters|niters|nitres|sinter|terins|triens|trines}}

[[Category:English pronunciation spellings]]
[[Category:en:Australia]]
[[Category:en:Languages]]