{{also|strings}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/strɪŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/strIN/}}
* {{audio|en-us-string.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪŋ}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|streng|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{countable}} A long, thin and flexible structure made from [[thread]]s twisted together.
# {{uncountable}} Such a structure considered as a substance.
# {{countable}} Any long, thin and flexible object.
#: ''a violin '''string'''''
# {{countable}} A cohesive substance taking the form of a string.
#: ''The '''string''' of spittle dangling from his chin was most unattractive''
# {{countable}} A series of items or events.
#: ''a '''string''' of successes''
# {{countable}} {{computing}} A sequence of [[character]]s stored consecutively in [[memory]] and capable of being processed as a single entity.
# {{countable}} {{computing}} A [[data type]] storing a [[sequence]] of data values, usually [[byte]]s, in which elements usually stand for [[character]]s according to a [[character encoding]].
# {{countable}} {{computer science}} An [[ordered]] [[sequence]] of [[symbols]] of a predetermined [[set]] or [[alphabet]].
# {{music|countable|usually in plural}} A [[stringed instrument]] or the person playing that instrument.
# {{countable}} {{physics}} the main [[object]] of study in [[string theory]], a branch of theoretical physics
# A slang term for [[cannabis]] or [[marijuana]]

====Derived terms====
* [[second string]]

====Synonyms====
* (long, thin structure): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[line]]
* (this structure as a substance): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[twine]]
* (anything long and thin):
* (cohesive substance in the form of a string):
* (series of items or events): [[sequence]], [[series]]
* (sequence of characters in computing):
* (stringed instruments): [[string section]] ''the strings, or the string section''
* (conditions): [[condition]]s, [[proviso]]s

====Translations====
{{trans-top|long, thin structure}}
* {{trreq|Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[وتر]]}} (wátar) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[լար]] (lar)
* {{trreq|Basque}}
* Bosnian: [[žica]] ''(жицa)'' {{f}}
* Bulgarian: [[нишка]] ''(niška)'' {{f}}
* CJKV Characters: [[線]], [[线]]; [[紐]]
* {{trreq|Catalan}}
* Chinese: [[線]], [[线]] (xiàn)
* {{trreq|Croatian}}
* {{trreq|Czech}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|streng|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|draad|m}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|nöör}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|nyöri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|corde|f}}
* Georgian: [[სიმი]] (simi)
* German: {{t+|de|Schnur|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σπάγγος|m|tr=spángos|sc=Grek}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|zsineg}}
* {{trreq|Icelandic}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spago|m}}
* Japanese: [[紐]] (himo)
* [[Khmer]]: {{Khmr|[[ខ្សែ]]}} (ksai)
* Korean: [[끈]] (kkeun)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[به‌ند]]}}, {{KUchar|[[په‌ت]]}}, {{KUchar|[[ده‌زو]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|linum|n}}, {{t-|la|linea|f}}, {{t-|la|filum|n}}
* {{trreq|Latvian}}
* {{trreq|Lithuanian}}
* {{trreq|Mongolian}}
* {{trreq|Norwegian}}
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|sznurek|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|barbante|m}}, {{t+|pt|corda|f}}, {{t+|pt|fio|m}}
* {{trreq|Romanian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бечёвка|f|tr=bečóvka|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cordel|m}}, {{t-|es|mecate|m}}, {{t+|es|cuerda|f}}
* {{trreq|Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sträng|c}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[ด้าย]]}} (dâai), {{Thai|[[เชือก]]}} (chêuak)
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* {{trreq|Welsh}}
* Yiddish: [[שטריקל]] (shtrikl) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|this structure as a substance}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|streng}}
* French: {{t+|fr|corde|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sträng|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|anything long and thin}}
* CJKV Characters: (of a musical instrument) [[絃]], [[弦]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cohesive substance in the form of a string}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|streng}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sträng|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|series of items or events}}
* Bulgarian: [[низ]] (niz)
* Danish: {{t-|da|serie}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|rida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|suite|f}}, {{t+|fr|série|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σειρά|f|tr=seirá|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|serie|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|serie|c}}, {{t+|sv|följd|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sequence of characters in computing}}
* Bulgarian: [[низ]] (niz)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|řetězec|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|streng}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sõne}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chaîne de caractères|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|συμβολοσειρά|f|tr=symvoloseirá|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|stringa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sträng|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a stringed instrument}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snaar|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cuerda|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stringed instruments}}
* Danish: [[strygerne]]
* Dutch: [[snaarinstrumenten]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|keelpill}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|έγχορδα|n|tr=énchorda|sc=Grek}}
* Portuguese: [[cordas]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|conditions}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|subject of study in physics}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χορδή|f|tr=chordí|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|strings|stringing|strung}}

# {{transitive}} To put (items) on a string.
#: ''You can string these beads on to this cord to make a colorful necklace''
# {{transitive}} To put strings on (something).
#: ''It is difficult to string a tennis racket properly''

====Synonyms====
* (put on a string): [[thread]]
* (put strings on): [[lace]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|put on a string}}
* Danish: [[trække på snor]]
* Dutch: [[rijgen]], [[aaneenrijgen]]
* Finnish: (''to put '''perforated''' items on a string'') [[pujottaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|enfiler}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|enfileirar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|put strings on}}
* Danish: [[opstrenge]], [[strenge]] op
* Portuguese: [[encordoar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stränga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

;to be checked
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[enhebrar]]

===Derived terms===
{{top2}}
* [[cosmic string]]
* [[heartstrings]]
* [[string along]]
* [[string band]]
{{mid2}}
* [[string quartet]]
* [[string up]]
* [[string vest]]
* [[stringy]]
{{bottom2}}

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=m}}

# {{context|underwear|lang=nl}} [[g-string]], [[thong]]

[[Category:nl:Clothing]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} ''[[#English|string]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stʁiŋ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[G-string]], [[thong]], [[tanga]]

[[Category:fr:Underwear]]

[[fa:string]]
[[fr:string]]
[[io:string]]
[[it:string]]
[[kk:string]]
[[lo:string]]
[[hu:string]]
[[pl:string]]
[[pt:string]]
[[ru:string]]
[[fi:string]]
[[ta:string]]
[[te:string]]
[[vi:string]]
[[tr:string]]
[[uk:string]]
[[zh:string]]