==English==
===Pronunciation===
*(''UK''): {{IPA|/strəʊk/}}, {{SAMPA|/str@Uk/}}
*(''US''): {{AHD|strōk}}, {{IPA|/stroʊk/}}, {{SAMPA|/stroUk/}}

===Etymology 1===
{{ME.}} from {{OE.}} *''strāc'', an unattested noun on the basis of the verb ''[[strācian]]''

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}
#An act of [[stroking]].
#:''She gave the cat a '''stroke'''.''
#A [[blow]].
#A [[line]] drawn with a [[pen]] or [[pencil]].
#A [[streak]] of [[paint]] made with a [[brush]].
#The time when a [[clock]] [[strike]]s.
#:''on the '''stroke''' of midnight''
#A [[thrust]] of a [[piston]].
#A particular style of [[swimming]].
# {{medicine}} The loss of [[brain]] [[function]] arising when the [[blood]] [[supply]] to the [[brain]] is suddenly interrupted.
# A single movement with a [[tool]].
# A single act of [[striking]] with a [[weapon]].
# In [[golf]], a single act of striking at the ball with a club.
# In [[tennis]], the hitting of a ball with a racket, or the movement of the racket and arm that produces that impact.
# In [[rowing]], the movement of an oar or paddle through water, either the ''pull'' which actually propels the vessel or a single entire cycle of movement including the pull.
# In [[rowing]], the rower who is nearest the stern of the boat.
# In [[professional wrestling]], backstage influence.
#{{cricket}} The action of [[hitting]] the [[ball]] with the [[bat]]; a [[shot]].
#{{UK}} The symbol "/".

=====Synonyms=====
*(''act of stroking''): [[caress]]
*(''blow''): [[blow]], [[hit]]
*(''made with a pen''): [[stroke of the pen]]
*(''made with a brush''): [[brushstroke]]
*(''time when a clock strikes''): [[hour]]
*(''thrust of a piston''): [[push]], [[thrust]]
*(''particular style of swimming''):
*(''in medical sense''): [[cerebrovascular accident]], [[CVA]]
*(''single movement with a tool''):
*(''act of striking with a weapon''): [[blow]]
*(''in golf''): 
*(''in tennis''):
*(''in rowing''):
*(''in wrestling''):
*(''in cricket''): [[shot]]
*(''symbol''): [[forward slash]] (''in computing''), [[shilling sign]] (''UK, dated''), [[slant]], [[slash]] (''especially in computing''), [[solidus]], [[virgule]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[at a stroke]], [[at one stroke]]
*[[backstroke]]
*[[breaststroke]]
*[[brushstroke]]
*[[butterfly stroke]]
*[[different strokes for different folks]]
*[[four-stroke engine]]
*[[government stroke]]
*[[keystroke]]
*[[stroke of genius]]
*[[stroke of luck]]
*[[stroke of work]]
*[[two-stroke engine]]<!--Spanish: **Two stroke [[engine]]: motor de dos tiempos-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|act of stroking}}
*Danish: [[ae]]
*Dutch: [[aaien]]
*French: [[caresse]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[carezza]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|blow}}
*French: [[coup#French|coup]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}, [[Hieb]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[colpo]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|line drawn with a pen or pencil}}
*French: [[trait#French|trait]] {{m}}
*German: [[Strich]] {{m}}, ''seldom:'' [[Zug]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[tratto]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|streak made with a brush}}
*German: [[Strich]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|time when a clock strikes}}
*Dutch: [[klokslag]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[פעימה]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|thrust of piston}}
*Italian: [[corsa]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|particular style of swimming}}
*French: [[brasse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Zug]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[חתירה]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|loss of brain function due to loss of blood flow to the brain}}
*French: [[accident vasculaire cérébral]] {{m}}, [[attaque cérébrale]] {{f}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}, [[Schlaganfall]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hebrew: [[שבץ מוחי]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|single movement with a tool}}
*French: [[coup#French|coup]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of striking with a weapon}}
*French: [[coup#French|coup]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in golf}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in tennis}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in rowing}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in wrestling}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|symbol}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{OE.}} ''[[strācian]]''

====Transitive verb====
{{en-verb|strok|ing}}

#To [[move]] the hand over the surface of (something) in one direction.
#{{cricket}} To [[hit]] the ball with the bat in a flowing motion.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to move the hand over the surface of}}
*French: [[caresser]]
*Italian: [[accarezzare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[なでる]] (naderu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: to hit the ball with the bat in a flowing motion}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
*[[w:Stroke|Wikipedia article on strokes in the medical sense]]

[[fa:stroke]]
[[fr:stroke]]
[[io:stroke]]
[[it:stroke]]
[[pt:stroke]]
[[ru:stroke]]
[[fi:stroke]]
[[vi:stroke]]
[[zh:stroke]]