==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} ''[[substantif]]''.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of the essence or essential element of a thing; as, "substantive information".
#*'''2012''', The Economist, 06 Oct 2012 issue; ''[http://www.economist.com/node/21564222 The first presidential debate: Back in the centre, back in the game]''
#*:In one sense the first debate achieved the worst of all worlds: it managed to be technical, even dull, without being '''substantive''' or especially honest.
# Having [[substance]]; enduring; solid; firm; substantial.
#* Hazlitt
#*: Strength and magnitude are qualities which impress the imagination in a powerful and '''substantive''' manner.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} Applying to essential legal principles and rules of right; as, "substantive law".
# {{context|chemistry|lang=en}} Of a [[dye]] that does not need the use of a [[mordant]] to be made [[fast]] to that which is being dyed.
# Depending on itself; independent.
#* Francis Bacon
#*: He considered how sufficient and '''substantive''' this land was to maintain itself without any aid of the foreigner.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|of the essential element}} [[essential]], [[in essence]]
* {{sense|having substance}} [[meaty]], [[substantial]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|having substance}} [[superficial]]
* {{sense|legal}} [[adjective]], [[procedural]]
* [[verbal]]
* {{sense|of a dye that does not need the use of a mordant}} [[adjective]]

====Derived terms====
* [[substantive law]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of the essence or essential element of a thing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|oleellinen}}, {{t|fi|olennainen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|substantivo}}, {{t+|pt|substancial}}, {{t+|pt|essencial}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sustantivo}}, {{t|es|sustancial}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having substance and prompting thought}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|oleellinen}}, {{t|fi|olennainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(law)''}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a dye that does not need the use of a mordant}}
* French: {{t+|fr|direct}}, {{t+|fr|substantif}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[substantif]] {{g|m}}, [[substantive#French|substantive]] {{g|f}} (4)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|grammar|lang=en}} A [[word]] that names or refers to a [[person]], [[place]], [[thing]], or [[idea]]. [[noun|Nouns]] and [[personal pronoun]]s are always substantives by nature.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l/en|subst.}} {{qual|abbreviation used in lexicography and grammar}}

====Hyponyms====
* [[noun]]
* [[personal pronoun]]

====Derived terms====
* [[substantivise]]/[[substantivize]]
* [[substantival]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|grammar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zelfstandig naamwoord|n}}, {{t+|nl|substantief|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|substantivo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|substantiivi}}, {{t+|fi|nimisana}}
* French: {{t+|fr|substantif|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Substantiv|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|όνομα|tr=ónoma|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sostantivo|m}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|lietvārds|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|substantive}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|substantivo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|substantiv|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|имя существительное|n|tr=ímja suščestvítelʹnoje|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|substantivo|m}}, {{t+|es|sustantivo|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|isim}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|subsat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Nouns]]
[[Category:en:Parts of speech]]

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj-form}}

# {{feminine of|substantif|lang=fr}}

----

==Interlingue==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=ie}}

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=ie}}

===Noun===
{{head|ie|noun}}

# {{l/en|noun}}

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|substantīve}}

# {{inflection of|substantīvus||voc|m|s|lang=la}}

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[sub.stanˈti.ve]|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
{{head|ro}}

# {{plural of|substantiv|lang=ro}}

[[et:substantive]]
[[el:substantive]]
[[es:substantive]]
[[eo:substantive]]
[[eu:substantive]]
[[fr:substantive]]
[[ko:substantive]]
[[io:substantive]]
[[id:substantive]]
[[ku:substantive]]
[[lt:substantive]]
[[hu:substantive]]
[[mg:substantive]]
[[ml:substantive]]
[[no:substantive]]
[[pl:substantive]]
[[pt:substantive]]
[[ru:substantive]]
[[sv:substantive]]
[[ta:substantive]]
[[te:substantive]]
[[chr:substantive]]
[[tr:substantive]]
[[vi:substantive]]
[[zh:substantive]]