==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|souken|souken, suken||lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term/t|ang|sūcan||to suck}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*sūkaną}}, {{term/t|gem-pro|*sūganą||to suck, suckle}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*seug-}}, {{term/t|ine-pro|*sug-}}, {{term/t|ine-pro|*suk-}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|souke||to suck|lang=sco}}, obsolete {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|zuiken||to suck|lang=nl}}. Akin also to {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term/t|ang|sūgan||to suck}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|sûge|lang=fy}}, {{term|sûgje||to suck|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|zuigen||to suck|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|saugen||to suck|lang=goh}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|suga||to suck|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|sjúga||to suck|lang=is}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term/t|la|sugō||suck}}, {{etyl|cy|-}} {{term|sugno||suck|lang=cy}}. Related to {{l|en|soak}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}}, {{a|UK}} {{enPR|sŭk}}, {{IPA|/sʌk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-suck.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌk}}
* {{a|some Northern English accents}} {{enPR|so͝ok}}, {{IPA|/sʊk/}}
* {{rhymes|ʊk}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To use the [[mouth]] and lips to pull in (a liquid, especially [[milk]] from the breast). {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To perform such an action; to feed from a [[breast]] or [[teat]]. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To put the [[mouth]] or [[lips]] to (a breast, a mother etc.) to draw in milk. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[extract]], draw in (a substance) from or out of something. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1596''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', IV.i:
#*: That she may '''sucke''' their life, and drinke their blood, / With which she from her childhood had bene fed.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To work the [[lip]]s and [[tongue]] on (an object) to extract [[moisture]] or [[nourishment]]; to absorb (something) in the mouth. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[pull]] (something) in a given direction, especially without direct contact. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# To perform [[fellatio]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
# {{context|intransitive|slang|lang=en}} To be [[inferior]] or [[objectionable]]: a general term of disparagement, sometimes used with ''at'' to indicate a particular area of deficiency. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''1970''', [[w:Hunter S. Thompson|Hunter S. Thompson]], ''Fear and Loathing in America'', Simon and Schuster, p. 251:
#*: . . . and it has a few very high points . . . but as a novel, it '''sucks'''

====Synonyms====
{{checksense}}
* To [[draw]]
* To [[attract]]
* (3, 4 above) To [[blow]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:give head]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|to bring something into the mouth by inhaling}} to [[blow]]
* {{sense|to be poor at}} to [[rock]], to [[rule]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''suck'' (verb)}}
* [[insuck]]
* [[suck a big one]]
* [[suckable]]
* [[suck a lemon]]
* [[suck arse]]
* [[suck ass]]
* [[suck balls]]
* [[suck cock]]
* [[suck donkey balls]]
* [[suck donkey cock]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[suck donkey dick]]
* [[sucker]]
* [[suck face]]
* [[suck hind tit]]
* [[suck into]]
* [[suck it]]
* [[suck it up]]
* [[suck lemons]]
* [[suck my balls]]
* [[suck off]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[suck on that]]
* [[suck out]]
* [[suck rocks]]
* [[suck tits]]
* [[suck up]]
* [[sucky]]
* [[sucky-sucky]]
* [[teach grandmother to suck eggs]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[suckle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to use the mouth to pull in (liquid etc)}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|مص}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ծծել|tr=ççel}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|sug}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|xurgatu}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|চোষা|tr=cosha|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|смуча|tr=smuča}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|စုပ်|tr=sok|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|xuclar}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|sát}}, {{t|cs|nasávat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zuigen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|suĉi}}
* Ewe: {{t|ee|nyi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|imeä}}, {{t|fi|lutkuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sucer}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|supâ}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|chupar}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|წოვა|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|saugen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βυζαίνω|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|ρουφάω|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|למצוץ|tr=limtsots}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|चूसना|tr=cūsnā}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szopik}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|súigh}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|succhiare}}, {{t|it|suggere}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|吸う|tr=すう, suu}}, {{t|ja|しゃぶる|tr=shaburu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|빨다|tr=ppalda}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|mêjîn}}, {{t+|ku|mêtin}}, {{t|ku|مژین|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|sugo}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|sūkt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|čiul̃pti}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|цица|tr=cíca}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|hisap}}, {{t|ms|sedut}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|momi}}, {{t|mi|ngote}}, {{t|mi|mote}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|suge}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مکیدن|tr=makidan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ssać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chupar}}, {{t+|pt|sugar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|ch'unqay}}
* Rapa Nui: {{t|rap|omo}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|suge}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|tschitschar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сосать|tr=sosát’|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|всасывать|tr=vsásyvat’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|deoghail}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|си̏сати}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|sȉsati}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|cmúľať}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|cycaś}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|chupar}}, {{t+|es|sorber}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|suga}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|макидан|tr=makidan|sc=Cyrl}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|చీకు|tr=cheeku}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ดูด|tr=dūd|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|emmek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|смоктати|tr=smoktáty}}, {{t|uk|ссати|tr=ssáty}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|bú}}
* Zulu: {{t|zu|ncela|alt=-ncela}}, {{t|zu|munca|alt=-munca}}, {{t|zu|munya|alt=-munya}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|to work the lips and tongue on}}
* German: {{t|de|lutschen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γλείφω|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|πιπιλίζω|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chupar}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|deoghail}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: term of general disparagement}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|духам|tr=dukham}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|aĉi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|haista}}, {{t|fi|olla syvältä}}
* French: {{t|fr|[[être]] [[chiant]]}}, {{t|fr|[[être]] [[nul]]}}
* German: {{t|de|mies sein}}, {{t|de|zum Kotzen sein}}, {{t|de|Scheiße sein}}
* Greek: {{t|el|άστα να πάνε|sc=Grek}} {{qualifier|situation}}, {{t|el|είμαι μαλάκας|sc=Grek}} {{qualifier|person}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sökka}}, {{t+|is|ömurlegur|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|essere una schiappa}}, {{t|it|fare schifo}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|サック|tr=sakku|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|suge}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|saco}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отстой|tr=otstój|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|noun}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|suga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: (to ''suck'' a sweet) {{t|sk|cmúľať}}, (to ''suck in'' one’s breath) {{t|sk|vtiahnuť}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An instance of drawing something into one's mouth by inhaling.
#* '''2001''', D. Martin Doney, ''Prayer Capsule: A Book of Honesty'', page 261
#*: Bammer agreed “Probably a good idea,” he agreed with a quick '''suck''' on his straw, “won't stop you from picking up any of these chicks, though.”
# {{context|vulgar|lang=en}} [[fellatio|Fellatio]] of a man's penis.
#* '''2012''', Alex Carreras, ''Cruising with Destiny'', page 12
#*: Nate exhaled a long, slow breath. What the hell was he thinking? He couldn't cruise the steam room looking for married men looking for a quick '''suck'''. He needed to shoot his load, but was he really that desperate?
# {{context|Canada|lang=en}} A [[weak]], [[self-pitying]] person; a person who won't [[go along]], especially out of [[spite]]; a [[crybaby]] or [[sore loser]].
#* '''1999''', Hiromi Goto, “Drift”, in ''Ms.'', v 9, n 3, p 82–6:
#*: “Why're you bothering to take her anywhere? I can't stand traveling with her. You're such a '''suck''',” her sister said. Waved her smoke. “No fucking way I'm going.”
#* '''2008''', Beth Hitchcock, “Parenting Pair”, in ''Today's Parent'', v 25, n 5, p 64:
#*: I used to think she was such a '''suck'''! She'd cry when I took to the ice, whether I skated well or badly. She'd cry when I left the house.
# A [[sycophant]], especially a [[child]].
#* '''1916''', [[w:James Joyce|James Joyce]], ''[[w:Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man|Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man]], Macmillan Press, p 23:
#*: You are McGlade's '''suck'''.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|crybaby}} [[sook]]
* {{sense|crybaby}} [[sooky baby]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|instance of drawing something into one's mouth by inhaling}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مک|tr=mak|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|میک|tr=mik|sc=fa-Arab}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|sycophant}}

===Anagrams===
* [[cusk#English|cusk]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/sɵk/|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# [[sigh]]; a deep and prolonged audible inspiration or respiration

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

[[cs:suck]]
[[cy:suck]]
[[et:suck]]
[[es:suck]]
[[eu:suck]]
[[fa:suck]]
[[fr:suck]]
[[ko:suck]]
[[hr:suck]]
[[io:suck]]
[[it:suck]]
[[kn:suck]]
[[kk:suck]]
[[ku:suck]]
[[lo:suck]]
[[lv:suck]]
[[lt:suck]]
[[li:suck]]
[[hu:suck]]
[[mg:suck]]
[[ml:suck]]
[[my:suck]]
[[nl:suck]]
[[ja:suck]]
[[oc:suck]]
[[pl:suck]]
[[pt:suck]]
[[ro:suck]]
[[ru:suck]]
[[simple:suck]]
[[fi:suck]]
[[sv:suck]]
[[ta:suck]]
[[te:suck]]
[[th:suck]]
[[chr:suck]]
[[tr:suck]]
[[uk:suck]]
[[vi:suck]]
[[zh:suck]]