==Spanish==
{{rfc|Definition should probably be split into Definition and Usage notes. Etymology too long? (Severely) Biased definition?}}

===Etymology===
An abbreviation of the Spanish word for a [[South American]] ('''suda'''meri'''ca'''no) and shares a common root with words such as camareta ([[bartender]]) and segurata ([[security guard]]).

===Noun===
{{es-noun|mf}}

# {{context|offensive|derogatory|vulgar|slang|lang=es}} Latin American
====Synonyms==== 
Panchito and Payopony

====Usage notes====

A Spanish colloquial term used most typically in Spain to denote all people from Latin America in a derogatory or pejorative way. Initially, Sudaca referred to Mestizo Latin Americans with Amerindian features, since the majority of immigrants were Mestizos. However, as more White Latin Americans immigrated to Spain, the effect was that Sudaca came to include White Latin Americans, who are culturally different from local Spaniards and speak with an accented Spanish. More recently, Spaniards tend to call White Latinos - Sudaca and a Mestizo Latinos - Panchito or Payopony. 

The term Sudaca is believed to have originated during the popular [[Movida madrileña]] (Madrid Movement) in the 1980s as a result of Latin American Immigration. The word Sudaca has evolved into a common, yet highly offensive ethnic slur due to the fact that most Spaniards feel that Latinos have competed successfully in the blue collar job market because most employers tend to higher cheaper immigrant labour to reduce costs. Inaddition, most Spaniards feel that Latinos had indirectly contributed to the lowering of the blue collar wage scales and the increasing unemployment of Spaniards. As a general rule the more polite way of referring to Latin American immigrants in Spain would be to call them Latinos or their countries of origin.

[[Category:Spanish ethnic slurs]]

[[es:sudaca]]
[[ko:sudaca]]
[[pl:sudaca]]
[[fi:sudaca]]