{{wikipedia|dab=suit}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xno}} ''[[siute]]'', from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[sieute]]'' (modern [[suite]]), originally a participle adjective from vulgar Latin ''*sequita'' (for Classical Latin ''[[secuta]]''), from Latin {{term|sequi||to follow}}, because the component garments "follow each other", i.e. are worn together.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|suːt}}
* {{audio|en-us-suit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|uːt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A set of clothes to be worn together, now especially a man's matching jacket and trousers, or a similar outfit for a woman.
#: ''Nick hired a navy-blue '''suit''' for the wedding.''
# {{context|pejorative|slang}} A person who wears matching jacket and trousers, especially a boss or a supervisor.
#: ''Be sure to keep your nose to the grindstone today; the '''suits''' are making a "surprise" visit to this department.''
# A full set of armour.
# {{legal}} The attempt to gain an end by legal process; a process instituted in a court of law for the recovery of a right or claim; a [[lawsuit]].
#: ''If you take my advice, you'll file '''suit''' against him immediately.''
# {{italbrac-colon|obsolete}} The act of following or pursuing; [[pursuit]], [[chase]].
# Pursuit of a love-interest; [[wooing]], [[courtship]].
#: ''Rebate your loves, each rival '''suit''' suspend, Till this funereal web my labors end.'' —[[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]].
# The full set of sails required for a ship.
# {{card games}} Each of the sets of a pack of cards distinguished by color and/or specific emblems, such as the [[spades]], [[hearts]], [[diamonds]]{{,}} or [[clubs]] of traditional Anglo, Hispanic{{,}} and French playing cards.
#: ''To deal and shuffle, to divide and sort Her mingled '''suits''' and sequences.'' — [[w:William Cowper|William Cowper]].
# {{obsolete}} Regular order; succession.
#: ''Every five and thirty years the same kind and '''suit''' of weather comes again.'' — [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]].
# {{obsolete}} The act of suing; the [[pursuit]] of a particular object or goal.
#: ''Thenceforth the '''suit''' of earthly conquest shone.'' — [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]].
# {{archaic}} A company of attendants or followers; a [[retinue]].
# {{archaic}} A group of similar or related objects or items considered as a whole; a [[suite]] (of rooms etc.)

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[birthday suit]]
* [[bring suit]]
* [[follow suit]]
* [[out of suits]]
* [[shell suit]]
* [[suit and service]]
* [[suit broker]]
{{mid2}}
* [[suit court]]
* [[suit covenant]]
* [[suit custom]]
* [[suit service]]
* [[suitcase]]
* [[swimsuit]]
* [[tracksuit]]
* [[zoot suit]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(law) The attempt to gain an end by legal process; a process instituted in a court of law for the recovery of a right or claim; a lawsuit.}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|proceso judicial}}.
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|suit of clothes}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|بذلة|f|alt=بَذْلة|tr=badhla(t)}}
* Chinese: [[套裝]] (tàozhuāng)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|oblek|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kostuum}}
* Finnish: [[puku]], [[kävelypuku]]
* French: {{t+|fr|complet|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anzug|m}}
* Hebrew: [[חליפה]] (halifa) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|öltöny}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|jakkaföt|m|p}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vestito|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[洋服一そろい]] (ようふくひとそろい, yōfuku hitosoroi)
* Korean: [[양복]] (yangbok)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|костум|m|tr=kóstum|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t-|mk|одело|n|tr=odélo|xs=Macedonian}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|terno|m}},  {{t+|pt|traje}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|costum|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|костюм|m|tr=kostjúm}}
* Spanish: [[traje]] {{m}}, [[terno]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Bolivia|Chile|Ecuador|Peru}}, [[vestido]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Colombia|Panama}},  [[flux]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Venezuela|colloquial - pronounced 'flu' ; Dominican Republic|dated - current usage : traje}}, [[tacuche]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Guatemala|Mexico|colloquial}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kostym}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|card game category}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|barva|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|enseigne|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kolor|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|naipe|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|масть|f|tr=mást'}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|färg}}, {{t+|sv|svit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[fit]]; to [[adapt]]; to make proper or suitable; as, to suit the action to the word. —Shakspere
# To be fitted to; to accord with; to become; to befit.
#: ''Ill '''suits''' his cloth the praise of railing well.'' — [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]].
#: ''Raise her notes to that sublime degree Which '''suits''' song of piety and thee.'' — [[w:Matthew Prior|Matthew Prior]].
# To dress; to clothe.
#: ''So went he '''suited''' to his watery tomb.'' —Shakspere.
# To please; to make content; as, he is well suited with his place; to suit one’s taste.
# {{intransitive}}: To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; — usually followed by with or to.
#: ''The place itself was '''suiting''' to his care.'' — [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]].
#: ''Give me not an office That '''suits''' with me so ill.'' — [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]].

====Synonyms====
* ''to agree:'' [[agree]], [[match]], [[answer]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to be fitted to}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սազել|tr=sazel|xs=Armenian}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vyhovovat}}
* French: {{t+|fr|convenir}}
* German: {{t+|de|passen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|стои|tr=stói|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|прилега|tr=prílega|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|одговара|tr=odgóvara|xs=Macedonian}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|convir}},  {{t|pt|adaptar-se}},  {{t|pt|adequar-se}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|convenir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to please, to make content}}
* French: {{t+|fr|convenir}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|погодува|tr=pogóduva|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Verb===
'''suit'''

# ''[[third-person singular]] [[present]] [[indicative]] form of '''[[suivre]]'''''

[[Category:French verb forms]]

[[de:suit]]
[[et:suit]]
[[el:suit]]
[[es:suit]]
[[fr:suit]]
[[io:suit]]
[[it:suit]]
[[sw:suit]]
[[ku:suit]]
[[hu:suit]]
[[ja:suit]]
[[ru:suit]]
[[simple:suit]]
[[fi:suit]]
[[ta:suit]]
[[te:suit]]
[[vi:suit]]