==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[sumet]] (''17th century'')
* [[summut]], [[zum'ot]], [[summot]] (''18th – 19th centuries'')
* [[sumat]], [[summet]], [[zumat]], [[zummat]], [[zummet]], [[zummut]] (''19th century'')

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈsʌmət/|lang=en}}
* {{IPA|/ˈzʌmət/|lang=en}}
: Homonyms: [[summit]] {{qualifier|in some dialects}}

===Etymology===
Dialectical variant of {{term|somewhat|lang=en}} attested from the 18th century

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron}}

# {{context|British|regional|lang=en}} [[something|Something]].
#* '''1773:''' [[w:John Byrom|John Byrom]], ''Miscellaneous Poems'', p. 164
#*:Is it not [[sent|ſent]] to make a [[man|Mon]] to [[swear|ſwear]]
#*:'''Summot''' [[about|abaoot]] the ''King'', and his ''reet Heir''?
#* '''1790:''' Ann Wheeler, ''The Westmorland Dialect, with the Adjacency of Lancashire & Yorkshire, in Four Familiar Dialogues'', p. 59 (1821 edition)
#*: ...[[now|naw]] [[yours|yaurs]] may [[get|git]] while they [[are|er]] young, [[and|an]] [[save|seaav]] '''sumet''' [[against|agayn]] they [[are|er]] [[old|aud]].
#* '''1805:''' R. Anderson, ''Ballads in the Cumberland Dialect'', p. 105
#*: The langer they gaze, still the mair they may wonder,
#*:: And aye, as they wonder, may fin '''summet''' new.
#* '''1808:''' ''Sketches of Character, or Specimens of Real Life'', vol. 2, p. 130
#*: I was going to mentoin '''summut''' by way of proof poz
#* '''1809:''' Theodore Hook, "Killing No Murder", in ''The Sporting Magazine'', vol. 34, no. 202, p. 185
#*: every gentleman tips us '''summat''', we looks for it as natural as possible.
#* '''1813:''' ''Patience and Perserverance; or, the Modern Griselda'', vol. 1, p. 60
#*: besides, he az been always doing '''zummut''' for her ever zince her feather died—zo he as.
#* '''1825:''' James Jennings, ''Observations on Some of the Dialects in the West of England, Particularly Somersetshire'', p. 119
#*: A thawt, an if a war alive,
#*:: That '''zummet''' war tha matter.
#* '''1826:''' "First Love", in ''Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine'', vol. 20, no. 115, p. 158
#*: Thee musn’t lumber the room, if thee’l not drink '''zummat'''.
#* '''1839:''' John Russel Smith, ''Westmoreland and Cumberland Dialects: Dialogues, Poems, Songs, and Ballads, by Various Writers in the Westmoreland and Cumberland Dialects'', p. 35
#*: I laaid me dawn on a breaad scar an sean fel asleep, tul '''sumet''' weaakend me varra caad omme feace.
#* '''1839:''' Benson Earle Hill, ''Home Service; or, Scenes and Characters from Life'', vol. 1, p. 282
#*: If I could a lugged back the ''oss'', that ''mought'' a bin wuth '''zumat'''.
#* '''1841:''' Charles Selby, ''Maximums & Speciments of William Muggins, Natural Philosopher and Citizen of the World'', p. 313 (1859 edition)
#*:‛''Salem aleicum'',’ says she; which means, How do you do, or '''sumat''' hequivalent to it.
#* '''1849:''' [[w:William Harrison Ainsworth|William Harrison Ainsworth]], ''The Lancashire Witches'', vol. 1, p. 117
#*: And yet it may mean '''summot'''
#:'''1859''', {{w|George Eliot}}, ''{{w|Adam Bede}}'', I.i.i.10
#::A man must learn '''summat''' beside Gospel to make them things.
#* '''1947:''' Thomas Armstrong, ''King Cotton'', p. 53
#*: Does he think I’ve been soaping up to the Governor or '''summat'''?
#* '''2006:''' Robin Jarvis, ''Thomas'', p. 20
#*: Why go all the way to find '''summat''' that ain’t there?
#* '''2009:''' Aaron Chynn, ''Memoirs of an Ordinary Man''
#*: I said to the barman “Tha mun avail thissen o '''summat''' anorl”
# {{context|British|regional|lang=en}} [[somewhat|Somewhat]].
#*'''1825''' October 12, {{w|Walter Scott}}, ''Letters'' (published 1935), IX.245
#*:They require the atmosphere of a cigar and the amalgam of a '''''sum'mat''''' comfortable.
#*'''1859''', {{w|George Eliot}}, ''{{w|Adam Bede}}'', I.i.viii.172
#*:It's '''summat'''-like to see such a man as that [[in|i']] the desk of a Sunday!

[[Category:English pronouns]]

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{head|fi|noun form}}

# {{plural of|summa|lang=fi}}

[[de:summat]]
[[fr:summat]]
[[pl:summat]]