==English==

===Etymology===
Presumed {{m|en|super-}} + {{m|en|cee}}, a respelling of the physics symbol {{m|en|c}} (denoting the [[w:Speed of light|speed of light in a vacuum]]; an abbreviation of both English {{m|en|constant}} and {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|celeritas||[[swiftness]]}}).

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|rare|science fiction}} Faster-than-[[light]] travelling [[speed]].
#* '''1930''', Information Access Company, ''Analog Science Fiction/science Fact'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=W5AQAAAAIAAJ&q=supercee&dq=supercee&pgis=1 pp63<sup>{1}</sup>, 73<sup>{2}</sup>, & 77<sup>{3}</sup>]
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>But Man had always been a restless, persistent creature, and the stars called, and in an incredibly short space of time a highly-ingenious refinement of the theta drive gave him '''supercee'''.
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>“What I can’t understand, Psy, is why in the name of Mira the Terrans couldn’t have been admitted to the Federation as soon as they developed '''supercee'''. […]”
#*: <sup>{3}</sup>Offhand I’d say that the Terrans, when they hit on the secret of star-driving a planet, which isn’t much of a trick once the '''supercee''' principle is clearly understood, decided to go off on a hunt round the galaxy for a see-tee system.
#* '''1960''', A<small>UTHOR UNKNOWN</small>, ''Astounding Science-fiction'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=dUwEAAAAYAAJ&q=supercee&dq=supercee&pgis=1 pp70<sup>{1}</sup>, 72<sup>{2}</sup>, & 73<sup>{3}</sup>]; presumed to be an earlier work ('''1930''' or earlier), as quotations 2 and 3 also appear in:
#* '''1930''', Information Access Company, ''Analog Science Fiction/science Fact'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=W5AQAAAAIAAJ&q=%22all+about+a+little+thing+called%22&dq=%22all+about+a+little+thing+called%22&pgis=1 p72]
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>“[…] A couple of<!-- Outside the scanning zone; presumed to be a short measurement of time --> … after the last rescue ship had lif<!-- Outside scanning zone; presumed “lifted off” --> … into space and shifted into the<!-- Outside scanning zone; presumed “safety” --> … of '''supercee''', the star exploded.”
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>“Surely you know the answer to that one,” he said after a moment or two, “or have you forgotten all about a little thing called the decrement effect?” The Psychologist nodded. “Precisely. The decrement effect. The factor that makes '''supercee''' — '''supercee''' as we know it, that is — inoperable in intergalactic space.” He looked thoughtful. “I don’t think anyone’s yet evolved a satisfactory theory to account for the existence of the effect. The only thing that’s certain is that it’s tied up in some way with gravity fields — or, rather, with the absence of g-fields.” He shrugged.
#*: <sup>{3}</sup>“What I can’t understand, Psy, is why in the name of Mira the Terrans couldn’t have been admitted to the Federation as soon as they developed '''supercee'''. […]”
#* '''1979''', Frank Northen Magill, ''Survey of Science Fiction Literature'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=3hoYAAAAIAAJ&q=supercee&dq=supercee&pgis=1 p937] (Salem Press, ISBN 0893561967)
#*: The core was virtually unreachable at '''supercee''' velocities. So the Lost Star’s bleep has been sounding for eighty years, and no ship has reached her.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|warp speed}}

[[Category:English 3-syllable words]]