==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[supernaturalis]]'', from ''[[super]]'', '''above''', + ''[[natura]]'', '''[[nature]]''' (that which we are '''born''' with), from ''[[natus]]'', '''born''', perfect passive participle of ''[[nasci]]'', '''to be [[born]]''', + adjective suffix ''[[-alis]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-supernatural.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Above [[nature]]; that which is beyond or added to nature, often so considered because it is given by God or some force beyond that which humans are born with.  In Roman Catholic theology, [[w:sanctifying grace|sanctifying grace]] is considered to be a supernatural addition to human nature.
# Something that is not of the usual.  Something that is somehow not [[natural]], or has been altered by forces that are not understood fully if at all.
# Something for which there is neither ocular proof nor is measurable.  For example, even though electromagnetic waves, subnuclear particles, et cetera may not be visible, yet they are measurable and their existence can be repetitively tested.  However, we cannot either see or measure a ghost.

====Synonyms====
* [[extraordinary]]
* [[unnatural]]

====Antonyms====
* [[ordinary]]
* [[natural]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nadpřirozený|m}}
* Estonian: [[üleloomulik]]
* Dutch: [[bovennatuurlijk]]
* German: {{t-|de|übernatürlich}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|yliluonnollinen}}
* French: [[surnaturel]], [[extraordinaire]]
* Hungarian: [[természetfeletti]] (1), [[különös]], [[rendkívüli]] (2)
* Italian: {{t+|it|soprannaturale}}
{{mid}}
* Latin: [[supernaturalis]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сверхъестественный|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: [[supernaitural]]
* Slovene: [[nadnaraven]] {{m}}, [[nadnaravna]] {{f}}, [[nadnaravno]] {{n}}
* Serbian: [[nadprirodan]] {{m}}, [[nadprirodna]] {{f}}, [[nadprirodno]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|sobrenatural}}
* Swedish: [[övernaturlig]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Supernatural phenomena
# ''(countable)'' A supernatural being.

{{top}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|yliluonnollinen}}
{{mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|сверхъестественное|sc=Cyrl}}
{{bottom}}

[[el:supernatural]]
[[fr:supernatural]]
[[io:supernatural]]
[[it:supernatural]]
[[hu:supernatural]]
[[pl:supernatural]]
[[ru:supernatural]]
[[fi:supernatural]]
[[ta:supernatural]]
[[te:supernatural]]
[[vi:supernatural]]