==English==
{{was wotd|2007|July|20}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|surfeite}}, {{m|enm|surfet}}, a borrowing from {{der|en|xno|surfet}}, {{m|fro|surfeit}} and {{der|en|fro|sorfet}}, {{m|fro|sorfait}}, past participle of {{m|fro|surfaire||to augment, exaggerate, exceed}}, from {{m|fro|sur-||over}} + {{m|fro|faire||to do}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˈsɜː.fɪt/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈsɝː.fɪt/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-surfeit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɜː(r)fɪt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|countable}} An [[excessive]] [[amount]] of something.
#: {{ux|en|A '''surfeit''' of wheat is driving down the price.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|author={{w|Kitty Empire}} [pseudonym]|title={{w|The Streets}} review&nbsp;– the agony and ecstasy of a great everyman|editor={{w|Katharine Viner}}|newspaper={{w|The Guardian}}|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20190408062100/https://www.theguardian.com/music/2019/jan/26/the-streets-mike-skinner-review-o2-academy-leeds|archivedate=8 April 2019|location=London|publisher=[[w:Guardian Media Group|Guardian News & Media]]|date=26 January 2019|issn=0261-3077|oclc=229952407|passage=With what could be a '''surfeit''' of candour, [[w:Mike Skinner (musician)|[Mike] Skinner]] has described DJing as more creative than playing his own songs, because, to paraphrase, of the "stress" and "creativity" of not knowing what he'll be doing in three minutes' time.}}
# {{lb|en|uncountable}} [[overindulgence|Overindulgence]] in either [[food]] or [[drink]]; [[overeat]]ing.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Merchant|3|2|passage=I feel too much thy blessing: make it [this excess]less,<br>For fear I '''surfeit'''!}}
#*: Now comes the sick hour that his '''surfeit''' made.
#* {{RQ:King James Version|Luke|21|34|passage=And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with '''surfeiting''', and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.}}
# {{lb|en|countable}} A [[sickness]] or condition caused by overindulgence.
#: {{ux|en|King Henry I is said to have died of a '''surfeit''' of lampreys.}}
#* {{RQ:Bunyan Pilgrim's Progress}}
#*: the Leaves they do eat to prevent '''surfeit''' and other diseases that are incident to those that heat their blood by travels
# Disgust caused by excess; [[satiety]].
#* {{RQ:Burke Regicide Peace}}
#*: Matter and argument have been supplied abundantly, and even to '''surfeit'''.
#* {{RQ:Sidney The Defense of Poesy}}
#*: Now for similitudes in certain printed discourses, I think all herbalists, all stories of beasts, fowls, and fishes are rifled up, that they may come in multitudes to wait upon any of our conceits, which certainly is as absurd a '''surfeit''' to the ears as is possible.
# {{lb|en|countable}} A group of [[skunks]].



====Synonyms====
* {{sense|excessive amount of something}} {{l|en|excess}}, {{l|en|glut}}, {{l|en|overabundance}}, {{l|en|superfluity}}, {{l|en|surplus}}, {{l|en|ug}}
* {{sense|overindulgence in food or drink}} {{l|en|gluttony}}, {{l|en|overeating}}, {{l|en|overindulgence}}
* {{sense|disgust caused by excess}} {{l|en|nausea}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|excessive amount of something}}
* Danish: {{t|da|overflod|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overdaad|f}}, {{t+|nl|overvloed|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ylenpalttisuus}}, {{t+|fi|liika}}, {{t+|fi|yltäkylläisyys}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|anlucht|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|eccesso|m}}, {{t+|it|sovrabbondanza|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|изли́шек|m}}, {{t+|ru|избы́ток|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|overindulgence in either food or drink; overeating}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mässäily}}
* German: {{t|de|Übersättigung|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbuffata|f}}, {{t+|it|scorpacciata|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|przejedzenie|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неуме́ренность|f}}, {{t+|ru|изли́шество|n}}, {{t+|ru|обжо́рство|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sickness or condition caused by overindulgence}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ähky}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|ἄση|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sazietà|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przesyt|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|disgust caused by excess; satiety}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ähky}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csömör}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przesyt|m}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|మొగచాటు}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fill]] (something) to excess.
#: {{syn|en|stuff}}
#* '''1610''', ''[[s:The Tempest|The Tempest]]'', by [[w:William Shakespeare|Shakespeare]], act 3 scene 3,
#*: You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
#*: That hath to instrument this lower world
#*: And what is in’t,—the never-'''surfeited''' sea
#*: Hath caused to belch up you;
#* {{RQ:Trollope The Way|volume=I|chapter=23|page=149|passage=If this '''surfeited''' sponge of speculation, this crammed commercial cormorant, wanted more than that for his daughter, why could he not say so without asking disgusting questions such as these {{...}}?}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[feed]] (someone) to excess (''on,'' ''upon'' or ''with'' something).
#: {{syn|en|glut|overfeed|stuff}}
#: ''She '''surfeited''' her children on sweets.''
#* '''1665''', {{w|Robert Boyle}}, ''Occasional Reflections upon Several Subjects,'' London: Henry Herringman, Reflection{{nbsp}}10, p.{{nbsp}}186,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A29010.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} ev’n the wholsomest Meats may be '''surfeited''' on, and there is nothing more unhealthy, than to feed very well, and do but very little Exercise.
#* '''1906''', {{w|O. Henry}}, “The Furnished Room” in ''The Four Million,'' New York: A.L. Burt, p.{{nbsp}}240,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/fourmillionhen00henriala/page/240]</sup>
#*: To the door of this, the twelfth house whose bell he had rung, came a housekeeper who made him think of an unwholesome, '''surfeited''' worm that had eaten its nut to a hollow shell and now sought to fill the vacancy with edible lodgers.
#* '''1909''', {{w|Arnold Bennett}}, ''{{w|The Old Wives' Tale|The Old Wives’ Tale}},'' Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Book{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}8, section{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}318,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.115234/page/n319]</sup>
#*: If he said of a dish, in the local tongue: “I could do a bit of that!” or if he simply smacked his lips over it, she would '''surfeit''' him with that dish.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make (someone) [[sick]] as a result of [[overconsumption]].
#* '''1640''', {{w|Thomas Fuller}}, ''Joseph’s Partie-Colored Coat,'' London: John Williams, p.{{nbsp}},<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A01344.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} that proportion of meat '''surfetteth''', and surchargeth the stomacks of some, which is not enough to satisfie the hunger of others,
#* '''1755''', {{w|George Colman the Elder|George Colman}}, ''{{w|The Connoisseur (newspaper)|The Connoisseur}},'' No. 49, 2{{nbsp}}January, 1755, London: R. Baldwin, Volume{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}299,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004813445.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I imagine him poisoned by his wines, or '''surfeited''' by a favourite dish;
# {{lb|en|transitive|figurative}} To [[supply]] (someone) ''with'' something to excess; to [[disgust]] (someone) through [[overabundance]].
#: {{syn|en|cloy|glut}}
#* '''1697''', {{w|Aphra Behn}}, “On an ungrateful and undeserving Mistress, whom he cou’d not help Loving” in ''Poems upon Several Occasions,'' London: Francis Saunders, p.{{nbsp}}50,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A27316.0001.001]</sup>
#*: While some glad Rival in her Arms did lye,
#*: Glutted with Love and '''surfeited''' with Joy.
#* '''1795''', {{w|Richard Cumberland (dramatist)|Richard Cumberland}}, ''Henry,'' London: Charles Dilly, Volume{{nbsp}}4, Book{{nbsp}}10, Chapter{{nbsp}}3, p.{{nbsp}}18,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004875941.0001.004]</sup>
#*: {{...}} he shan’t shut me up in this dismal castle, and nauseate me with his '''surfeiting''' fondness:
#* '''1844''', {{w|Charles Lever}}, ''Tom Burke of “Ours”,'' Dublin: William Curry, Jun., Volume{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}53, p.{{nbsp}}31,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/tomburkeofours02leve/page/30]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I suppose his majesty thought we had enough of it on the field, and did not wish to '''surfeit''' us with glory.
#* '''1922''', {{w|F. Scott Fitzgerald}}, ''{{w|The Beautiful and Damned}},'' New York: Scribner, Book{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}210,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/beautifuldamned00fitzrich/page/210]</sup>
#*: After supper, '''surfeited''' with the subject, she yawned.
#* '''1977''', {{w|Susan Sontag}}, “The Heroism of Vision” in ''{{w|On Photography}},'' New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, p.{{nbsp}}77,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/onphotography00sont]</sup>
#*: The image-'''surfeited''' are likely to find sunsets corny; they now look, alas, too much like photographs.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[satisfy]] (someone's appetite) to excess (both literally and figuratively).
#: {{syn|en|glut}}
#* '''1796''', {{w|Maria Edgeworth}}, ''The Parent’s Assistant; or, Stories for Children,'' London: J. Johnson, Volume{{nbsp}}2, “The Mimic,” p.{{nbsp}}98,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004783302.0001.002]</sup>
#*: {{...}} his appetite for vulgar praise had not yet been '''surfeited''';
#* '''1922''', Lenore Richards and Nola Treat, ''Quantity Cookery,'' Boston: Little, Brown, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}8,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/cu31924000524847/page/n19]</sup>
#*: Every one has had the experience of being served with more food than can be eaten with relish and without waste. The effect is to '''surfeit''' the appetite and to limit the variety which a patron may have,
# {{lb|en|intransitive|reflexive}} To [[overeat]] or [[feed]] to excess (''on'' or ''upon'' something).
#: {{syn|en|glut|indulge|overfeed|overindulge}}
#* '''1611''', ''{{w|King James Version}} of the {{w|Bible}},'' {{w|Gospel of Luke|Luke}} 21.34,<sup>[https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke+21&version=KJV]</sup>
#*: And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with '''surfeiting''', and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
#* '''1908''', {{w|Jack London}}, ''{{w|The Iron Heel}},'' New York: Macmillan, Chapter{{nbsp}}17, p.{{nbsp}}251,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/ironhee00lond/page/250]</sup>
#*: Millions of people were starving, while the oligarchs and their supporters were '''surfeiting''' on the surplus.
#* '''1917''', R. L. Alsaker, ''Maintaining Health,'' New York: Frank E. Morrison, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, p.{{nbsp}}174,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/07220120R.nlm.nih.gov/page/n187/mode/2up/search/surfeit]</sup>
#*: Those who do not '''surfeit themselves''' do not weary quickly of any particular article of diet.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|reflexive|figurative}} To [[indulge]] (in something) to excess.
#* '''1748''', {{w|William Gilpin (priest)|William Gilpin}}, ''A Dialogue upon the Gardens of the Right Honourable Viscount Cobham, at Stow in Buckinghamshire,'' London: B. Seeley, p.{{nbsp}}54,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004842514.0001.000]</sup>
#*: After '''surfeiting itself''' with the Feast here provided for it, the Eye, by using a little Exercise in travelling about the Country, grows hungry again, and returns to the Entertainment with fresh Appetite.
#* '''1847''', {{w|Charlotte Brontë}}, ''{{w|Jane Eyre}},'' London: Smith, Elder, Volume{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}16,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/janeeyreautobiog21bron/page/16]</sup>
#*: {{...}} a more fantastic idiot had never '''surfeited herself''' on sweet lies, and swallowed poison as if it were nectar.
#* '''1869''', {{w|Mark Twain}}, ''{{w|The Innocents Abroad}},'' Hartford, CT: American Publishing Company, Chapter{{nbsp}}47, p.{{nbsp}}496,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/innocentsabroad00twairich/page/496]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the intemperate zeal with which middle-aged men are apt to '''surfeit themselves''' upon a seductive folly which they have tasted for the first time.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|reflexive}} To become [[sick]] from [[overindulgence]] (''both literally and figuratively'').
#* {{circa|1596}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Merchant of Venice}},'' Act{{nbsp}}I, Scene{{nbsp}}2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=merchantvenice&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: {{...}} they are as sick that '''surfeit''' with too much as they that starve with nothing.
#* '''1642''', {{w|Thomas Fuller}}, ''{{w|The Holy State and the Profane State|The Holy State}},'' Cambridge: John Williams, Book{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}13, p.{{nbsp}}43,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A40674.0001.001]</sup>
#*: I must confesse at my first reading of them [the miracles of {{w|Hildegard of Bingen}}], my belief digested some, but '''surfeted''' on the rest:
#* '''1669''', {{w|John Dryden}}, ''{{w|The Wild Gallant}},'' London: H. Herringman, Act{{nbsp}}II, Scene{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}17,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A36713.0001.001]</sup>
#*: He that serves many Mistresses, '''surfeits''' on his diet, and grows dead to the whole sex:
#* '''1861''', {{w|Herbert Spencer}}, ''Education: Intellectual, Moral, and Physical,'' London: Williams and Norgate, Chapter{{nbsp}}4, p.{{nbsp}}149,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/b21782507/page/148]</sup>
#*: But are children to be allowed to '''surfeit''' themselves? Shall they be suffered to take their fill of dainties and make themselves ill, as they certainly will do?

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|surfeiter}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to fill to excess}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|переполня́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|перепо́лнить|pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|colmar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to feed someone to excess}}
* German: {{t+|de|überfüttern}}, {{t+|de|vollstopfen}} {{qualifier|slang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|перека́рмливать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|перекорми́ть|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to overeat or feed to excess}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ylensyödä}}
* German: {{t+|de|überfressen|alt=sich überfressen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|объеда́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|объе́сться|pf}}; {{t+|ru|перееда́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|перее́сть|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to sicken from overindulgence}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|megcsömörlik}}, {{t|hu|megcsömörödik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|affluenza}}
* {{l|en|surfeiting}}
* {{l|en|surfeitly}}
* {{l|en|surfeitness}}
* {{l|en|surfeitous}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=efirstu|fustier}}

[[Category:English words not following the I before E except after C rule]]