{{wikipedia|Surname}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
ISLAM

===Etymology===
ASIAN

  Shahidul Islam
Shahidul Islam(b ~1977) is an Indian journalist for urdu. He is the News Editor of Hindustan Express. His columns appear regularly on front page known by Barjasta. These are syndicated to several newspapers, including The Qaumi Awaz,Qaumi Tanzeem(Patna+Ranchi)Etemaaddaily(Hyderabad),Munsif,Inquilab etc India and alqamar online newspaper of Pakistan.
Biography
Shahidul Islam was born in Bihar on January 25th, 1977. He graduated with an MA in Urdu from T.M.Bhagalpur University in Bihar. Shahidul islams's father Syed Md.Ali by professon a Doctor.He is related to the Sufi-ism hero Shaikh Sultan Alaihirrahmah,who was khalifa of Hazrat mujaddid Alifsani Rahmatullah Alaih Sarhindi from his father's side.
Career
Shahidul islam began his journalist career in Munger(Bihar) with the Qaumi Tanzeem as a Districtt Corresspondent /journalist with the Patriot in 1995. Later he also worked as a incharge of Qaumi Tanzeem,Ranchi and Spesial correspondent for Aalami Sahara. He has received journalistic award from Khanquah-e-shahbazia,Bhagal pur in 2004.
Writing style
Shahidul Islam a has been noted to have socialist view point and always critcise governmentl openions about Indian Muslims . Many of his articles criticise government policy, and generally reflect pro-minority, secular and feminist slants. HE has lashed out at many influential sections of the political spectrum. he has defended Indian Muslims against the charge of being anti-national and pro-Pakistani.

===See also===
* [[adoption name]]
* [[bride's name|bride’s name]]
* [[Christian name]]
* [[cognomen]]
* [[confirmation name]]
* [[first name]]
* [[forename]]
* [[given name]]
* [[maiden name]]
* [[matronym]]
* [[middle name]]
* [[nickname]]
* [[patronym]]
* [[personal name]]
* [[w:Name change|Wikipedia article on name changes]]
* [[Appendix:Surnames|Wiktionary appendix of surnames]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|surnam|ing}}

# To give a '''surname'''.
# To call by a '''surname'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to give a surname}}
* Finnish: [[antaa]] [[sukunimi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Obama|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to call by a surname}}
* Finnish: [[kutsua]] [[sukunimi|sukunimellä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Obama|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Onomastics]]

[[de:surname]]
[[el:surname]]
[[fr:surname]]
[[ko:surname]]
[[io:surname]]
[[it:surname]]
[[hu:surname]]
[[nl:surname]]
[[ja:surname]]
[[pl:surname]]
[[fi:surname]]
[[ta:surname]]
[[te:surname]]
[[th:surname]]
[[vi:surname]]
[[zh:surname]]