==English==
===Pronunciation===
\Sus*pen"sion\.

===Noun===
'''suspension'''
# The act of [[suspending]], or the state of being [[suspended]]
# A [[temporary]] [[delay]], [[interruption]], or [[cessation]]; Of labor, study, pain, etc.; Of decision, determination, judgment, etc.; Of judgment or opinion in view of evidence to be produced.; Of the payment of what is due; as, the suspension of a mercantile firm or of a bank.; Of punishment, or sentence of punishment.; Of a person in respect of the exercise of his office, powers, prerogative, etc.; as, the suspension of a student or of a clergyman.; Of the action or execution of law, etc.; as, the suspension of the habeas corpus act.
# A conditional withholding, interruption, or delay; as, the suspension of a payment on the performance of a condition.
# The state of a solid when its particles are mixed with, but not dissolved in, a fluid, and are capable of separation  by straining; also, any substance in this state.
# A keeping of the hearer in doubt and in attentive expectation of what is to follow, or of what is to be the inference or conclusion from the arguments or observations employed.
# (Scots Law) A stay or postponement of execution of a sentence condemnatory by means of letters of suspension granted on application to the lord ordinary.
# The prolongation of one or more tones of a chord into the chord which follows, thus producing a momentary discord, suspending the concord which the ear expects. Cf. retardation.
===Related terms===
*[[pleas in suspension]]
*[[points of suspension]]
*[[suspension bridge]]
*[[suspension of arms]]
*[[suspension scale]]
===Synonyms===
* [[delay]]; [[interruption]]; [[intermission]]; [[stop]]

===Translations===
{{trans-top|act of suspending, or the state of being suspended}}
*Finnish: [[keskeytys]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A temporary delay, interruption, or cessation}}
*Finnish: [[keskeytys]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A conditional withholding, interruption, or delay; as, the suspension of a payment on the performance of a condition}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The state of a solid when its particles are mixed with, but not dissolved in, a fluid, and are capable of separation by straining}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A keeping of the hearer in doubt and in attentive expectation of what is to follow}}
*Finnish: [[jännitys]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A stay or postponement of execution of a sentence condemnatory}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The prolongation of one or more tones of a chord into the chord which follows}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[suspensión]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[de:suspension]]
[[et:suspension]]
[[el:suspension]]
[[fr:suspension]]
[[io:suspension]]
[[it:suspension]]
[[pl:suspension]]
[[ru:suspension]]
[[ta:suspension]]
[[vi:suspension]]
[[zh:suspension]]