==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|swapan|swāpan|lang=ang}}; see also ''[[swoop]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|swēp}}, {{IPA|/swiːp/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/swi:p/}}
* {{audio|en-us-sweep.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|iːp}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|sweeps|sweeping|swept}}

# {{transitive}} To [[clean]] (a surface) by means of a [[stroke#Verb|stroking]] motion of a [[broom]] or [[brush]].
# {{intransitive}} To move through an ([[horizontal]]) [[arc]] or similar long stroke.
#* '''2005''', [[w:Lesley Brown]] (translator), ''Sophist'' by [[w:Plato|Plato]], [[w:Stephanus pagination|236d]]:
#*: ''[H]as the course of the argument so accustomed you to agreeing that you were '''swept''' by it into a ready assent?''
# {{transitive}} To [[search]] (a place) [[methodically]].
# {{intransitive|figuratively}} To travel [[quickly]].
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=February 1
|author=Phil McNulty
|title=Arsenal   2 - 1   Everton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_prem/9379477.stm
|page=
|passage=Everton took that disputed lead in a moment that caused anger to sweep around the Emirates. }}
# {{cricket}} To play a sweep shot.
# {{curling}} To [[brush]] the [[ice]] in front of a moving [[stone]], causing it to travel farther and to [[curl]] less.
# {{transitive|ergative}} To move something in a particular motion, as a [[broom]]
# {{sports|transitive}} To [[win]] (a [[series]]) without [[draw]]ing or [[lose|losing]] any of the games in that series.
# {{sports|transitive}} To [[defeat]] (a team) in a [[series]] without [[draw]]ing or [[lose|losing]] any of the games in that series.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''sweep'' (verb)}}
* [[sweeper]]
* [[sweep across]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[sweep someone off their feet]]
* [[sweep something under the rug]]
* [[sweep up]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[sweepy]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to clean using a broom or brush}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|مسح|tr=másaHa}}
* Bosnian: [[mesti#Bosnian|mesti]], [[pomesti#Bosnian|pomesti]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|打掃|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|打扫|tr=dǎsǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|掃|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|扫|tr=sǎo|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: [[mesti#Croatian|mesti]], [[pomesti#Croatian|pomesti]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zamést}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vegen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harjata}}, {{t-|fi|luutia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|balayer}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|varrer|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|fegen}}, {{t+|de|kehren}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|scuab|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|spazzare}}, {{t+|it|scopare}}, {{t-|it|ramazzare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|掃除|alt=掃除する|tr=そうじする, sōji-suru}}, {{t-|ja|掃く|tr=はく, haku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|menyapu}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|رُفتن|tr=roftan|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|روبیدن|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|جارو کردن|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zamiatać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|varrer}} (''to clean with a broom''), {{t+|pt|escovar}} (''to clean with a brush'')
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подметать|tr=podmetát'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|мести|tr=mestí}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|подмести|tr=podmestí}} {{pf.}}
* Scottish Gaelic: [[sguab]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[мести#Serbian|мести]], [[помести#Serbian|помести]]
*: Roman: [[mesti#Serbian|mesti]], [[pomesti#Serbian|pomesti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|barrer}}
* Telugu: [[ఊడ్చు]] (ooDchu)
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|svipön}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move through an arc or similar long stroke}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyyhkäistä}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|scuab|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[掃引]]する (sōin-suru)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to search methodically}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|doorzoeken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kammata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|balayer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|setacciare}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|прочёсывать|sc=Cyrl|tr=pročósyvat}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|прочесать|sc=Cyrl|tr=pročesát}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to travel quickly}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyyhkäistä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: to play a sweep shot}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|curling: to brush the ice}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harjata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[掃く]] (haku)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move something in a certain motion}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyyhkäistä}}, {{t-|fi|heilauttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sports: to win a series}}
* Finnish: [[voittaa#Finnish|voittaa]] {{t-|fi|puhtaasti}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sports: to defeat a team}}
* Finnish: [[voittaa#Finnish|voittaa]] {{t-|fi|puhtaasti}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[vegen]]
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[balai]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[balayar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[sapu|menyapu]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: süpür
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The person who [[steer]]s a [[dragon boat]].<!-- possibly other types of boats? -->
# A person who stands at the stern of a [[surf boat]], steering with a steering oar and commanding the crew.
# A [[chimney sweep]].
# A [[search]] (typically for [[bug]]s [electronic listening devices]).
# {{cricket}} A [[batsman]]'s [[shot]], played from a [[kneeling]] position with a swinging [[horizontal]] bat.
#: {{usex|Bradman attempted a '''sweep''', but in fact top edged the ball to the wicket keeper}}
# A [[lottery]], usually on the results of a sporting event, where players win if their [[random]]ly chosen team wins.
#: ''Jim will win fifty dollars in the office '''sweep''' if Japan wins the World Cup.''
# A flow of water parallel to shore caused by wave action at an ocean beach or at a [[point]] or [[headland]].
# A single action of sweeping.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''sweep'' (noun)}}
* [[chimney sweep]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[clean sweep]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[sweepstake]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|person who steers a dragon boat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|perämies}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person who steers a surf boat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|perämies}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|chimney sweep}}

{{trans-top|search for bugs (electronic listening devices)}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|etsintä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of shot in cricket}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of lottery}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|veikkaus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|flow of water parallel to shore}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|single action of sweeping}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pyyhkäisy}}, {{t-|fi|heilautus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* [[weeps#English|weeps]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[af:sweep]]
[[az:sweep]]
[[cs:sweep]]
[[et:sweep]]
[[el:sweep]]
[[es:sweep]]
[[eo:sweep]]
[[eu:sweep]]
[[fa:sweep]]
[[fr:sweep]]
[[gl:sweep]]
[[ko:sweep]]
[[hr:sweep]]
[[io:sweep]]
[[it:sweep]]
[[kn:sweep]]
[[kk:sweep]]
[[lt:sweep]]
[[li:sweep]]
[[hu:sweep]]
[[mg:sweep]]
[[ml:sweep]]
[[my:sweep]]
[[nl:sweep]]
[[ja:sweep]]
[[oc:sweep]]
[[pl:sweep]]
[[pt:sweep]]
[[ru:sweep]]
[[simple:sweep]]
[[fi:sweep]]
[[ta:sweep]]
[[te:sweep]]
[[th:sweep]]
[[uk:sweep]]
[[vi:sweep]]
[[zh:sweep]]