==English==
{{slim-wikipedia|dab=swell}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|swĕl}}, {{IPA|/swɛl/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛl|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|swellen}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|swellan||to swell}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*swellaną||to swell}}, of unknown origin. Cognate with {{cog|ofs|swella}}, {{cog|nds|swellen}}, {{cog|nl|zwellen||to swell}}, {{cog|de|schwellen||to swell}}, {{cog|sv|svälla||to swell}}, Icelandic {{m|is|svella}}. The adjective may derive from the noun.<!--with the sense development being from 'arrogance or pomp' (a common metaphor in many languages including Irish and Spanish and found in English in the 1730s), then to a meaning of a posh or fancy person (found in English by the 1780s), thus to the use of the adjective to mean "well-dressed, rich" (found in English by the 1810s) and thus to the general meaning of high class or excellent.-->

====Verb====
{{en-verb|swells|swelling|swelled|past2=swole|past3=swoll|swollen|past_ptc2=swelled}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To become bigger, especially due to being [[engorge]]d.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Monarchs to behold the '''swelling''' scene!
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cause to become bigger.
#: ''Rains and dissolving snow '''swell''' the rivers in spring.''
#* Atterbury
#*: It is low ebb with his accuser when such peccadilloes are put to '''swell''' the charge.
#* {{quote-book|lang=en|year=1905|author=[[w:Emma Orczy|Baroness Emmuska Orczy]]
|title=[[w:The Case of Miss Elliott|The Affair at the Novelty Theatre]]
|chapter=2|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL8479084W
|passage=For this scene, a large number of supers are engaged, and in order to further '''swell''' the crowd, practically all the available stage hands have to ‘walk on’ dressed in various coloured dominoes, and all wearing masks.}}
#* '''2013''' June 18, {{w|Simon Romero}}, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/world/americas/brazilian-leaders-brace-for-more-protests.html Protests Widen as Brazilians Chide Leaders]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 21 June 2013)</small>:
#*: After a harsh police crackdown last week fueled anger and '''swelled''' protests, President Dilma Rousseff, a former guerrilla who was imprisoned under the dictatorship and has now become the target of pointed criticism herself, tried to appease dissenters by embracing their cause on Tuesday.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To grow gradually in force or loudness.
#: ''The organ music '''swelled'''.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To raise to arrogance; to puff up; to inflate.
#: ''to be '''swelled''' with pride or haughtiness''
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To be raised to [[arrogance]].
#* Shakespeare
#*: Here he comes, '''swelling''' like a turkey cock.
#* Sir Walter Scott
#*: You '''swell''' at the tartan, as the bull is said to do at scarlet.
# To be elated; to rise arrogantly.
#* Dryden
#*: Your equal mind yet '''swells''' not into state.
# To be turgid, bombastic, or extravagant.
#: '''''swelling''' words; a '''swelling''' style''
# To [[protuberate]]; to [[bulge]] out.
#: ''A cask '''swells''' in the middle.''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|intransitive: to become bigger, especially due to being engorged}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اِنْتَفَخَ}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ուռել}}, {{t+|hy|ուռչել}}
* Assamese: {{t|as|ফুলা}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|ফোলা|tr=fola|sc=Beng}}
* Burmese: {{t-needed|my}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|inflar-se}}, {{t+|ca|rebotir}}, {{t|ca|unflar-se}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|膨脹|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|膨胀|tr=péngzhàng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|擴大|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|扩大|tr=kuòdà|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|隆起|tr=lóngqǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|otéct}}, {{t|cs|otéci}}, {{t+|cs|zduřet}}, {{t+|cs|opuchnout}}, {{t|cs|napuchnout}}, {{t|cs|naběhnout}}
* Danish: {{t|da|svulme}}, {{t|da|erigere}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zwellen}}, {{t+|nl|opzwellen}}, {{t+|nl|aanzwellen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ŝveli}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|bólgna}}, {{t|fo|hovna}}, {{t|fo|trútna}}, {{t|fo|túsna upp}}, {{t|fo|týsna upp}}, {{t|fo|svølpast}}, {{t|fo|svølla upp}}, {{t|fo|gerast hovin og trútin}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvota}}, {{t+|fi|paisua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gonfler}}, {{t+|fr|enfler}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|inflarse}}, {{t|gl|incharse}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|schwellen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρήζομαι}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אבב|tr=avov}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|dagad}}, {{t+|hu|duzzad}}, {{t+|hu|megdagad}}, {{t|hu|megduzzad}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|intumecar}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|(mem)[[bengkak]]}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|gonfiarsi}}, {{t|it|ingrossarsi}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|膨れる|tr=fukureru}}, {{t|ja|隆起する|tr=ryūki-suru}}, {{t|ja|腫れる|tr=[[はれる]], hareru}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|부풀다}}, {{t+|ko|붓다}}, {{t+|ko|팽창하다}}, {{t|ko|부어오르다}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|tyukšt}}
* Latin: {{t|la|intumēscō}}, {{t|la|tumeō}}, {{t|la|adaestuō}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|tūkt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|pūstis}}, {{t|lt|tinti}} {{qualifier|from inflammation}}, {{t|lt|brinkti}} {{qualifier|chiefly with moisture}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|mooadee}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tōuwha}}, {{t|mi|whakaahu}}, {{t|mi|kōpuku}}, {{t|mi|pupuhi }}
* Nahuatl: {{t|nah|timalla}}, {{t|nah|timalloa}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|svelle}}, {{t|nb|svulme}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|svelle}}, {{t|nn|svulme}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|enflar}}, {{t|oc|conflar}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|ورم کردن|tr=varam kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|puchnąć}}, {{t+|pl|powiększać}}, {{t+|pl|pęcznieć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|inchar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|punkiy}}, {{t|qu|saksay}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|se umfla}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|unflar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|раздува́ться}}, {{t+|ru|набуха́ть}}, {{t+|ru|увели́чиваться}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|sèid}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|usciari}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|opuchnúť}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|wopuchnuś|pf}}, {{t|dsb|wopuchowaś|impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hincharse}}, {{t+|es|inflarse}}
* Sundanese: {{t|su|bareuh}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|fura}}, {{t+|sw|vimba}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|svälla}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|บวม}}, {{t|th|โป่ง}}, {{t+|th|พอง}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|བསྐྲངས}}, {{t|bo|སྦོས}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|sưng}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|chwyddo}}
* Yiddish: {{t-needed|yi}}
* Zealandic: {{t|zea|opzwelle}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause to become bigger}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ŝveligi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gonfler}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πρήζω}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|dagaszt}}, {{t+|hu|duzzaszt}}, {{t|hu|felduzzaszt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|far gonfiare}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakakōpuku}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|conflar}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|inchar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to protuberate; to bulge out}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kidudorodik}}, {{t+|hu|kidomborodik}}, {{t|hu|kidülled}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|en|enm|swelle}}, from the verb {{m|enm|swellen}} (modern {{m|en|swell}}).

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# The act of swelling.
# Increase of power in style, or of rhetorical force.
#* '''1826''', {{w|Walter Savage Landor}}, ''{{w|Imaginary Conversations}}'', London: Henry Colburn, 2nd edition, Volume I, Conversation 6, p. 128,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/imaginaryconver05landgoog]</sup>
#*: Concentrated are his arguments, select and distinct and orderly his topics, ready and unfastidious his expressions, popular his allusions, plain his illustrations, easy the '''swell''' and subsidence of his periods {{...}}
# A long series of [[ocean]] [[wave]]s, generally produced by [[wind]], and lasting after the wind has ceased.
#* '''1883''', [[w:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''Treasure Island'', ch. 24:
#*: There was a great, smooth '''swell''' upon the sea.
# {{lb|en|music}} A gradual [[crescendo]] followed by [[diminuendo]].
#* {{quote-book|lang=en|year=1918|author={{w|W. B. Maxwell}}|chapter=5
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1097634W The Mirror and the Lamp]
|passage=He was thinking; but the glory of the song, the '''swell''' from the great organ, the clustered lights, […], the height and vastness of this noble fane, its antiquity and its strength—all these things seemed to have their part as causes of the thrilling emotion that accompanied his thoughts.}}
# {{lb|en|music}} A device for controlling the [[volume]] of a [[pipe organ]].
# {{lb|en|music}} A [[division]] in a [[pipe organ]], usually the largest [[enclosed]] division.
# A [[hillock]] or similar raised area of [[terrain]].
#* '''1909''', [[w:Joseph A. Altsheler|Joseph A. Altsheler]], ''The Last of the Chiefs'', ch. 2:
#*: Off on the crest of a '''swell''' a moving figure was seen now and then. "Antelope," said the hunters.
# {{lb|en|informal|dated}} A person who dresses in a [[fancy]] or [[elegant]] manner.
#* {{circa|1850}} [[w:William Makepeace Thackeray|William Makepeace Thackeray]], "The Kickleburys on the Rhine" in ''The Christmas Books of Mr. M. A. Titmarsh'':
#*: It costs him no more to wear all his ornaments about his distinguished person than to leave them at home. If you can be a '''swell''' at a cheap rate, why not?
#* '''1887''', [[w:Horatio Alger|Horatio Alger]], ''The Cash Boy'', ch. 9:
#*: He was dressed in a flashy style, not unlike what is popularly denominated a '''swell'''.
# {{lb|en|informal}} A person of high [[social]] [[standing]]; an important person.
#* '''1864''', [[w:Anthony Trollope|Anthony Trollope]], ''The Small House at Allington'', ch. 2:
#*: "I am not in Mr Crosbie's confidence. He is in the General Committee Office, I know; and, I believe, has pretty nearly the management of the whole of it." . . .
#*: "I'll tell you what he is, Bell; Mr Crosbie is a '''swell'''." And Lilian Dale was right; Mr Crosbie was a '''swell'''.
#* '''1900''', {{w|Joseph Conrad}}, ''{{w|Lord Jim}}'', Chapter 14,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/5658/5658-h/5658-h.htm]</sup>
#*: The only sensible man I came across was the cabman who drove me about. A broken-down '''swell''' he was, I fancy.
#* '''1906''', [[w:Gilbert Parker|Gilbert Parker]], ''The Trespasser'', ch. 8:
#*: You buy a lot of Indian or halfbreed loafers with beaver-skins and rum, go to the Mount of the Burning Arrows, and these fellows dance round you and call you one of the lost race, the Mighty Men of the Kimash Hills. And they'll do that while the rum lasts. Meanwhile you get to think yourself a devil of a '''swell'''—you and the gods!
#* '''1938''', {{w|Graham Greene}}, ''{{w|Brighton Rock (novel)|Brighton Rock}}'', New York: Vintage, 2002, Part Seven, Chapter 3, p. 209,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/brightonrockvint00gree]</sup>
#*: ‘{{...}} Colleoni’s going to take over this place from you, and he’s got his lawyer. A man in London. A '''swell'''.’

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|person dressed in a fancy or elegant manner}} {{l|en|dandy}}, {{l|en|dude}}, {{l|en|toff}}
* {{sense|person of high social standing}} {{l|en|toff}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|ground swell}}, {{l|en|groundswell}}
* {{l|en|upswell}}
* {{l|en|wind swell}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|series of waves}}
* Danish: {{t|da|dønning}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|deining|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maininki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|houle|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|vaga|f}}, {{t|gl|mar de fondo|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Dünung|f}}, {{t|de|Schwell|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ρεστία|f}}, {{t|el|αποθαλασσία|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hullámzás}}, {{t+|hu|hullámverés}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|mórtas|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rigonfiamento|m}}, {{t|it|mare di fondo}}, {{t+|it|flutti}}, {{t|it|onda lunga}}, {{t|it|mareggiare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|うねり|tr=uneri}}
* Latin: {{t|la|tumor|m}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|bangas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|āmai}}, {{t|mi|amotai}}, {{t|mi|huaroa}}, {{t|mi|huene}}, {{t|mi|tai whakarākau}} {{qualifier|a very long swell}}, {{t|mi|tārawa}}
* Nahuatl: {{t|nah|timalla}}, {{t|nah|timalloa}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|dønning|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|dønning|m}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|estòbi|m}}, {{t|oc|marejada|f}}, {{t|oc|mar de fons|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|falowanie}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|swell|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|val}}, {{t|ro|valuri}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|зыбь|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|mar de fondo|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kivimbe}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|svall|n}}, {{t+|sv|dyning}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: crescendo followed by diminuendo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|起伏|tr=kifuku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kivimbe}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: device for controlling a pipe organ}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kivimbe}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: division in pipe organ}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kivimbe}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From the noun "swell" (a person dressed in an elegant manner).

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-|er}}

# {{lb|en|dated}} [[fashionable|Fashionable]], like a swell or [[dandy]].
#* '''1912''', ''Popular Mechanics'' (page 20)
#*: We pay the express, $5 a day our new agents are making and wearing the '''swellest''' clothes besides; old agents after one season make twice as much.
# {{lb|en|North America|informal}} [[excellent|Excellent]].
#* '''1931''', {{w|Dashiell Hammett}}, ''{{w|The Glass Key}}'', New York: Vintage, 1972, Chapter 9, p. 176,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/glasskey00dash]</sup>
#*: Jeff swaggered over to Ned Beaumont, threw his left arm roughly around his shoulders, seized Ned Beaumont’s right hand with his right hand, and addressed the company jovially: “This is the '''swellest''' guy I ever skinned a knuckle on and I’ve skinned them on plenty.”
#* '''1958''', {{w|Robert A. Heinlein}}, ''{{w|Have Space Suit—Will Travel}}'', New York: Ballantine Books, 1977, Chapter 1, p. 8,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/havespacesuitwil00hein_0]</sup>
#*: {{...}} we’re league champions in basketball and our square-dance team is state runner-up and we have a '''swell''' sock hop every Wednesday.
#* '''2012''', {{w|Ariel Levy}}, "The Space In Between", ''The New Yorker'', 10 Sep 2012:
#*: Orgasms are '''swell''', but they are not the remedy to every injustice.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|excellent}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|excel·lent|m|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geweldig}}, {{qualifier|dated}} {{t+|nl|mieters}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erinomainen}}, {{t+|fi|mahtava}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sensass}}, {{t+|fr|chouette|m|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|klasse}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|klassz}}, {{t+|hu|szuper}}, {{t|hu|tök jó}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|素晴らしい|tr=subarashiī}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|excelente}}, {{t+|pt|ótimo}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|super}}, {{t+|ro|senzațional}}, {{t+|ro|minunat}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отли́чный}}, {{t+|ru|превосхо́дный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|excelente|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{lb|en|North America|informal}} Very [[well]].
#* '''1929''', {{w|Dashiell Hammett}}, ''{{w|Red Harvest}}'', Chapter 12,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/dashiellhammettf00amar]</sup>
#*: “That lousy ring wasn’t worth no grand. I did '''swell''' to get two centuries for it.”
#* '''1966''', {{w|Truman Capote}}, ''{{w|In Cold Blood}}'', New York: Modern Library, 2013, Part 3, p. 251,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=TH5uM_f0MRwC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: “{{...}} Last August, when I left The Walls, I figured I had every chance to start new. I got a job in Olathe, lived with my family, and stayed home nights. I was doing '''swell'''—”

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ellsw|Wells|wells}}

[[Category:English class 3 strong verbs]]
[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English verbs with weak preterite but strong past participle]]
[[Category:en:People]]

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|enm|ang|swellan}}.

====Verb====
{{head|enm|verb}}

# {{alternative form of|lang=enm|swellen}}

===Etymology 2===
From the verb {{m|enm|swellen}}.

====Adverb====
{{head|enm|adverb}}

# {{alternative form of|lang=enm|swelle}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{lb|pt|surfing}} {{l|en|swell}} {{gloss|series of waves}}