{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} {{term|swingen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|swingan|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|swinganan}} (cf. German {{term|schwingen|lang=de}} 'to brandish', Swedish {{term|svinga|lang=sv}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|su̯eng}} (cf. Scottish Gaelic {{term|seang|lang=gd}} 'thin').

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈswɪŋ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-swing.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The manner in which something is swung.
#: ''He worked tirelessly to improve his golf '''swing'''.''
#: ''Door '''swing''' indicates direction the door opens''.
# A hanging seat in a [[children]]'s [[playground]], for [[acrobats]] in a [[circus]], or on a [[porch]] for [[relax]]ing.
# A dance [[style]].
# {{music}} The [[genre]] of music associated with this dance style.
# The amount of [[change]] towards or away from something.
## {{politics}} In an [[election]], the increase or decrease in the number of [[vote]]s for [[opposition]] parties compared with votes for the [[incumbent]] party.
##: ''The polls showed a wide '''swing''' to Labour.''
# {{cricket}} [[sideways|Sideways]] movement of the ball as it flies through the air.
# The [[diameter]] that a [[lathe]] can cut.
# In a [[musical theater]] production, a [[performer]] who [[understudy|understudies]] several roles.

====Quotations====
* '''1937''' June 11, Judy Garland, “All God’s Chillun Got Rhythm”, ''A day at the races'', Sam Wood (director), Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
*: All God’s chillun got rhythm. All God's chillun got '''swing'''.
*: Maybe haven't got money, maybe haven't got shoes.
*: All God’s chillun got rhythm for to [''sic.''] push away their blues.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|manner in which something is swung}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heilautus}}; {{t|fi|swingi}} {{qualifier|golf}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sveifla|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|размах|m|tr=razmáx}}, {{t+|ru|замах|m|tr=zamáx}}, {{t|ru|взмах|m|tr=vzmáx}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hanging seat}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|鞦韆|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|秋千|tr=qiūqiān|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|houpačka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schommel|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|balancilo}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|keinu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|balançoire|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schaukel|f}}, {{qualifier|South German, Austrian}} {{t|de|Hutsche|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κούνια|f|tr=kunia}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hinta}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|róla|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|altalena|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ブランコ|tr=buranko|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|鞦韆|tr=ぶらんこ, buranko|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|그네|tr=geune|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[جۆلانه‌]]}}
* [[Latgalian]]: {{tø|ltg|leigačys}}, {{tø|ltg|šyupelis}}, {{tø|ltg|airis}}, {{tø|ltg|airis}}
* Latin: [[cunae]] (''for [[cradle]]'')
* Latvian: {{t|lv|šūpoles}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|huśtawka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|balanço}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|качели|f|p|tr=kačéli}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|ljuljaška|f}}
* Spanish: [[columpio]] {{m}}, [[hamaca]] {{f}} {{qualifier|Argentina|Uruguay}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gunga}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఉయ్యాల]] (uyyaala), [[ఊయల]] (ooyala)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|salıncak}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|pendülöm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dance style}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|svingo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|swing}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|свинг|m|tr=sving|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music style}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|svingomuziko}}, {{t|eo|svingo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|swing}}
* French: {{t+|fr|swing|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σουίνγκ|n|tr=souíngk}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sveifla|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|свинг|m|tr=sving}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|amount of change towards or away from}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heilahdus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|размах|m|tr=razmáx}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|electoral change}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heilahdus}}
* French: {{t|fr|revirement|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μεταστροφή|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sideways movement of a cricket ball as it flies through the air}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kierre}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|diameter that a lathe can cut}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|substitute musical theater performer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[Swing]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{fa-Arab|[[تاب]]}} (tâb)
* {{ttbc|sv}}: swing
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|swings|swinging|'''[[swang]]''' or '''[[swung]]'''|'''[[swung]]''' or (archaic) '''[[swungen]]'''}}

# {{intransitive}} To move [[backward]] and [[forward]], especially rotating about or [[hang]]ing from a [[fixed]] [[point]].
#: ''The plant '''swung''' in the breeze.''
#* '''1912''', {{w|Edgar Rice Burroughs}}, {{w|Tarzan of the Apes}}, Chapter 12
#*: With one accord the tribe '''swung''' rapidly toward the frightened cries, and there found Terkoz holding an old female by the hair and beating her unmercifully with his great hands.
# {{intransitive}} To [[dance]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[ride]] on a swing.
#: ''The children laughed as they '''swung'''.''
# {{intransitive}} To participate in the [[w:swinging|swinging]] lifestyle; to participate in [[wife]]-[[swapping]].
# {{intransitive}} To hang from the [[gallows]].
# {{intransitive|cricket|of a ball}} to move sideways in its trajectory.
# {{intransitive}} To [[fluctuate]] or [[change]].
#: ''It wasn't long before the crowd's mood '''swung''' towards restless irritability.''
# {{transitive}} To move (an object) backward and forward; to [[wave]].
#: ''He '''swung''' his sword as hard as he could.''
# {{transitive}} To [[change]] (a numerical [[result]]); especially to change the [[outcome]] of an [[election]].
# {{transitive}} To make (something) work; especially to [[afford]] (something) [[financially]].
#: ''If it’s not too expensive, I think we can '''swing''' it.''
# {{transitive|music}} To play [[notes]] that are in pairs by making the first of the pair slightly longer than written ([[augment]]ation) and the second, resulting in a bouncy, uneven [[rhythm]].
# {{transitive|cricket}} {{qualifier|of a bowler}} to make the ball move sideways in its [[trajectory]].
# {{transitive|and|intransitive|boxing}} To move one's arm in a [[punch]]ing motion.

====Derived terms====
* [[come out swinging]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to do a reciprocating movement}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تأرجح|tr=ta'árjaHa}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|擺動|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|摆动|tr=bǎidòng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|搖擺|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|摇摆|tr=yáobǎi|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|擺蕩|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|摆荡|tr=bǎidàng|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|擺|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|摆|tr=bǎi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|houpat se}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|balanci|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|heilua}}, {{t-|fi|keinua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|osciller}}, {{t|fr|se balancer}}, {{t+|fr|balancer}}
* German: {{t+|de|schwingen}}, {{t+|de|schaukeln}}, {{t+|de|schwanken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κουνιέμαι|tr=kuniemai}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|leng}}, {{t|hu|himbálózik}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sveiflast}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|振れる|tr=ふれる, fureru}}, {{t|ja|揺さぶる|tr=ゆさぶる, yusaburu}}, {{t-|ja|揺れる|tr=ゆれる, yureru}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|balançar}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|balansa}}, {{t+|ro|legăna}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|качаться|tr=kačát’sja}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|раскачиваться|tr=raskáčivat’sja}} {{impf}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gunga}}, {{t|sv|svinga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to dance}}
* Esperanto: [[svingomuzikumi]]
* Finnish: {{t|fi|svengata}} {{qualifier|slang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|swinguer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to ride on a swing}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|keinua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|balancer|alt=se balancer}}
* German: {{t+|de|schaukeln}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|róla}} ([[sig|sér]])
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[그네]][[뛰다]] (geune-ttwida)
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|suptis}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|andar de baloiço}}, {{t|pt|andar de balancé}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|качаться|tr=kačát’s'a}} {{impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hang on gallows}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|roikkua}}, {{t-|fi|heilua}}
* German: {{t+|de|baumeln}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lóg}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hanga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object movement}}
* German: {{t+|de|schwingen}}
* Greek: [[κουνάω]], [[κουνώ]]
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sveifla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[흔들다]] (heundeulda)
* Russian: {{t|ru|махать|tr=maxát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|размахивать|tr=razmáxivat’}} {{impf}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఊపు]] (oopu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ca}}: [[nedar]]
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[schommelen]], [[zwaaien]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[ayun|mengayunkan]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[dondolare]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[흔들리다]] (heundeullida)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[balançar]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[oscilar]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[ఊగు]] (oogu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[wings]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Music genres]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''swing''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|swing]] (music and dance style; golf swing)

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[bg:swing]]
[[cs:swing]]
[[et:swing]]
[[el:swing]]
[[es:swing]]
[[fa:swing]]
[[fr:swing]]
[[gl:swing]]
[[ko:swing]]
[[hr:swing]]
[[io:swing]]
[[it:swing]]
[[kn:swing]]
[[kk:swing]]
[[hu:swing]]
[[ml:swing]]
[[my:swing]]
[[nl:swing]]
[[pl:swing]]
[[ru:swing]]
[[simple:swing]]
[[fi:swing]]
[[sv:swing]]
[[ta:swing]]
[[te:swing]]
[[uk:swing]]
[[vi:swing]]
[[zh:swing]]