==English==
{{was wotd|2006|January|28}}

===Etymology===
From {{bor|en|LL.|sȳzygia||conjunction}}, from {{der|en|grc|συζυγία||yoke; union}}. This word was recognized as English in 1847 (in its astronomical meaning).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈsɪz.ɪdʒ.i/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-syzygy.wav ‎|Audio (UK)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|astronomy|astrology}} An [[alignment]] of three [[celestial body|celestial bodies]] (for example, the [[Sun]], [[Earth]], and [[Moon]]) such that one body is directly between the other two, such as occurs at an [[eclipse]].
#: {{cot|en|perigee|perihelion|proxigee}}
#* '''2004''', Phyllis M. Lugger, William Liller, ''Asteroids to Quasars: A Symposium Honoring William Liller'', Cambridge University Press ({{ISBN|9780521617048}}), page {{gbooks|i0UPY9ChjaQC|67}}:
#*: The duration of an eclipse depends on the relative positions of the sun, moon, and earth in their '''syzygy'''.
# {{lb|en|Jungian|_|psychology}} An [[archetypal]] pairing of [[contrasexual]] opposites, symbolizing the [[communication]] of the [[conscious]] and [[unconscious]] minds.
#* '''2006''', Renos K. Papadopoulos, ''The Handbook of Jungian Psychology: Theory, Practice and Applications'', Psychology Press ({{ISBN|9781583911471}}), page {{gbooks|Yt7FfLRi17kC|117}}:
#*: In 1936 Jung defends his concept of animus and anima by reference to the idea of the '''syzygy''', concluding from the evidence in many different mythologies of the divine couple, united by a sacred marriage, that this motif is as universal as the existence of men and women. He postulates that in the '''syzygy''' the archetypal union of the parents is expressed, the mother corresponding to the anima.
# {{lb|en|mathematics|linear algebra}} A [[relation]] between [[generator]]s of a [[module]].
#* '''2015''', Henri Lombardi, Claude Quitté, ''Commutative Algebra: Constructive Methods: Finite Projective Modules'', Springer ({{ISBN|9789401799447}}), page {{gbooks|ACU_CgAAQBAJ|173}}:
#*: A finitely presented module is an A-module M given by a finite number of generators and relations. Therefore it is a module with a finite generator set having a finitely generated '''syzygy''' module.
# {{lb|en|medicine}} The [[fusion]] of some or all of the [[organ]]s.
# {{lb|en|zoology}} The [[association]] of two [[protozoan|protozoa]] end-to-end or [[laterally]] for the purpose of [[asexual]] exchange of [[genetic]] material.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1900|author=Karl Alfred von Zittel|title=Text-book of Paleontology: Protozoa. Coelentrata (zoophytes). Echinodermata. Vermes (Worms). Molluscoidea. Mollusca. Arthropoda (articulates)|passage= When two or more arm-joints meet transversely by a rigid suture, and only the upper one is pinnule-bearing, those joints form a '''syzygy''', whether their apposed faces are striated, dotted, or smooth.}}
#* '''2018''', Richard E. Blackwelder, ''The Diversity of Animal Reproduction'', CRC Press ({{ISBN|9781351088381}})
#*: These include '''syzygy''', fusion of larvae or adults of flatworms, fusion of buds of some Tunicata, somatic fertilization (fusion of spermatozoa with somatic cells), composite zygotes of some Cestoda and Insecta, and fusion of cells in various tissues.
# {{lb|en|genetics}} The pairing of [[chromosome]]s in [[meiosis]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|astronomical conjunction}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|сізігія|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|sizígia|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|朔望點|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|朔望点|tr=Shuòwàng diǎn|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|syzygie|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|syzygie|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|sizigio}}
* French: {{t+|fr|syzygie|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|sicixia|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Syzygie|f}}, {{t|de|Syzygium|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συζυγία|f}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|συζυγία|f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|युति-वियुति|sc=Deva}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|raðstaða|f}}, {{t|is|okstaða|f}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|sizigio}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|sisige|f}}, {{t|ga|sisigí|f-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sizigia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|惑星直列|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|朔望|tr=Sakubō|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|혹성 직렬|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|행성 직렬|sc=Kore}}, {{t|ko|삭망|sc=Kore}} ({{t|ko|朔望|sc=Hani}})
* Latin: {{t|la|syzygia|f}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|sizigi}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|സിസിജി}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|همیوغی|tr=hamyūqī}}, {{t+|fa|اتصال|tr=etesāl}}, {{t+|fa|پیوند|tr=peyvand}}, {{t+|fa|پیوستن|tr=peyvastan}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|syzygium}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sizígia|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|sizigie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сизигия|f}} (sizígiya)
* Spanish: {{t|es|sizigia|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|syzygie|c}}, {{t+|sv|konjunktion|c}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|இணைவு}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|сизи́гія|f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|sóc vọng}} ({{t|vi|朔望|sc=Hani}})
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|conjunctie|f}}, {{t-check|nl|samenstand|m}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|conjonction|f}}, {{t+check|fr|rencontre|m}}
* Ido: {{t+check|io|kunjunto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|sizigia|f}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[konjunktion]] {{g|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|asterism}}
* {{l|en|occultation}}

===Further reading===
* {{pedia|syzygy (astronomy)}}
* {{pedia|syzygy|syzygy (disambiguation)}}