{{also|Appendix:Variations of "eg"}}
==English==
{{rfm|en|section=Big man ting, this bloke wants to delete e.g.}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|informal}} {{l|en|eg}}
* {{sense|dated}} {{l|en|ex. gr.}}, {{l|en|e. g.}}

===Etymology===
A terser form of {{m|en|ex. gr.}}, both abbreviating {{der|en|la|exemplī grātiā||[[for the sake of]] an [[example]]}}.<ref>'''2007''', John C. Traupman, ''The New College Latin and English Dictionary'', {{ISBN|9780553590128}}.</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˌiːˈdʒiː/|/fɔː(ɹ) ɪɡˈzɑːmpəl/}} (See [[#Usage notes|Usage notes]], below)
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˌiˈdʒi/|/fɔɹ ɪɡˈzæmpəl/}} (See [[#Usage notes|Usage notes]], below)

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|?}}

# "[[for example]]" or "[[for the sake of]] an [[example]]": ''[[use]]d to [[introduce]] an [[illustrative]] [[example]] or [[short]] [[list]] of [[example]]s''.
#: ''Continents ('''e.g.''' Asia) contain many large bodies of water ('''e.g.''' lakes and inland seas) and many large flowing streams of water ([[i.e.]], rivers).''

====Usage notes====
* Unlike "[[etc.]]", "e.g." is very seldom read as a full Latin phrase. Like "[[i.e.]]", it is typically read out as its English [[calque]] ("[[for example]]") or as its letters ("E-G"). It is also sometimes taught or glossed as "example given" for the benefit of English speakers.
* "E.g." and its examples are typically set off from the rest of the sentence by punctuation. In US English, "e.g." is usually followed by a comma.<ref>[[w:Mignon Fogarty|Mignon Fogarty]] (Grammar Girl) (October 20, 2016), "[https://www.quickanddirtytips.com/education/grammar/ie-versus-eg?page=2 I.e. Versus E.g.]</ref> It is not followed by a comma in other English-speaking countries.
:: {{q|UK}} ''I like sweet foods, e.g. [[danish]]es.''
:: {{q|US}} ''I like sweet foods (e.g., [[marzipan]]) but brush regularly.''
:: {{q|US}} ''I like sweet foods (e.g. [[marzipan]]) but brush regularly.''
:: {{q|rare|US}} ''I like sweet foods — e.g., [[red bean|red-bean]] [[zongzi]] — and so prefer [[Shanghainese]] cuisine to, e.g., [[Cantonese]].''
* The example(s) following "e.g." should be illustrative, ''not'' exhaustive.<ref>'''2002''', [[w:Ernest Gowers|Sir Ernest Gowers]], ''The Complete Plain Words'', {{ISBN|9781567922035}}.</ref> An exhaustive list or rephrasing uses "[[i.e.]]" instead. Since a concluding ''[[et cetera]]'' makes a list exhaustive, "[[etc.]]" should never be used with "e.g."

====Translations====
{{trans-top|abbreviation for “for example”}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|bv.}} {{qualifier|[[byvoorbeeld]]}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|p. sh.}} {{qualifier|[[për shembull]]}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|على سبيل المثال}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|օր.}} {{qualifier|[[օրինակ]]}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|adib.}} {{qualifier|[[adibidez]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|напр.|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|[[например]]}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|p. ex.}} {{qualifier|[[per exemple]]}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|例如|tr=lìrú}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|např.}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|f.eks.}}, {{t+|da|fx}} {{qualifier|{{t+|da|for eksempel}}}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bv.}}, {{t+|nl|bijv.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|nl|bijvoorbeeld}}}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ekz.}} {{qualifier|[[ekzemple]]}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|nt}} {{qualifier|[[näiteks]]}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|t.d.}} {{qualifier|{{t|fo|til dømis}}}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|esim.}} {{qualifier|[[esimerkiksi]]}}
* French: {{t+|fr|par ex.}} {{qualifier|[[par exemple]]}}
* Georgian: {{t+|ka|მაგ.}}
* German: {{t+|de|z. B.}} {{qualifier|[[zum Beispiel]]}} (dated: {{t|de|z. E.}} {{qualifier|[[zum Exempel]]}}), {{t+|de|bspw.}} {{qualifier|[[beispielsweise]]}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|π.χ.}}, {{t+|el|παραδείγματος χάριν}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לדוגמה|tr=l'dugmá}}, {{t|he|למשל|tr=l'mashál}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|[[pl.]]}} {{qualifier|[[például]]}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|t.d.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|is|til dæmis}}}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|m.sh.}} {{q|{{t|ga|mar shampla}}}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ad es.}} {{qualifier|[[ad esempio]]}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|例えば|tr=tatoeba|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|예를 들면}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Northern Kurdish: {{t|kmr|wekî mînak}}, {{t|kmr|wekî nimûne}}, {{t|kmr|mîsalen}}, {{t+|kmr|w.n.}}, {{t+|kmr|w.m.}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|e. g.}}, {{t+|la|ex. gr.}} {{q|exempli gratia}}; {{t+|la|e. c.}} {{q|exempli causa}}
* Latvian: {{qualifier|[[piemēram]]}} {{t|lv|piem.}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|pvz.}} {{qualifier|[[pavyzdžiui]]}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|z. B.}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|на пр.}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|mis.}} {{qualifier|[[misalnya]]}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|f.eks.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|no|for eksempel}}}}, {{t+|no|t.d.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|no|til dømes}}}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|برای مثال|sc=Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|np.}} {{qualifier|[[na]] [[przykład]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|p. ex.}}, {{qualifier|[[por exemplo]]}} {{t+|pt|ex.}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|de ex.}} {{qualifier|[[de exemplu]]}}, {{t|ro|e.g.}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|напр.}} {{qualifier|[[например]]}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t+|gd|me}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|нпр.}} {{qualifier|[[на]] [[пример]]}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|npr.}} {{qualifier|[[na]] [[primer]]}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|napr.}} {{qualifier|[[napríklad]]}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|npr.}} {{qualifier|[[na]] [[primer]]}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|na pś.}} {{qualifier|{{t|dsb|na pśikład}}}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|p. ej.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|es|por ejemplo}}}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|t.ex.}}, {{t+|sv|t ex}}, {{t|sv|tex.}} {{t|sv|t. ex.}} {{qualifier|{{t+|sv|till exempel}}}}, {{t+|sv|exempelvis}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|örn.}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|наприклад}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|vd.}} {{qualifier|[[ví dụ]]}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|e.e.}} {{qualifier|{{t|cy|er enghraifft}}}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
<references/>

===Noun===
{{en-noun|?}}

# {{lb|en|informal|nonstandard|proscribed}} An [[example]].
#: ''Lemurs are an '''e.g.''' of a non-simian primate.''

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eg|GE|Ge|gE}}

[[Category:English initialisms]]
[[Category:English terms spelled with .]]

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|la|e. g.}}

===Adverb===
{{head|la|adverb}} (by [[justification]])

# [[exempli gratia|exemplī grātiā]] ("[[for the sake of]] an [[example]], [[for example]]")
#* '''1732''' (MDCCXXXII), Antonius Mayr, ''Theologia Scholastica'', Ingolstadium, page 55, by justification:
#*: nam licèt e. g. fornicatio prohibita sit {{...}} non tamen id semper fieri necesse est. '''e.g.''' aliquis corruptus pecuniâ {{...}} & tamen obligationem e. g. restituendi damnum
#* '''1821''', Julius Müller, ''Ratio et historia odii quo foenus habitum est'', pages 3 and 10, by justification:
#*: Interdum etiam utrumque vocabulum in usu loquendi inter se commutatur, e. g. Dig. XIII, C. 4. Liv. XXIII, 48.
#*: Recentiora denique iura, quibus foenus prohibitum est, '''e.g.''' ius Francogallorum, {{...}}