==English==

===Etymology===
An [[allusion]] to the breakfast cereal [[w:Wheaties|Wheaties]], long advertised as the "Breakfast of Champions", and its long-standing association with sports celebrities.

===Verb===
{{infl|en|verb|head=[[to]] [[eat]] [[one]][['s]] [[Wheaties]]}}

# {{US|and|Canada|idiomatic}} To prepare or [[fortify]] oneself for an activity requiring [[exertion]].
#* '''1971''' Oct. 19, Haney Reilly, "[http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=GMhkAAAAIBAJ&sjid=wL0MAAAAIBAJ&pg=6542,2728099&dq=eat-his-wheaties&hl=en Another game, another loss but Hawkeyes looked better]," ''Telegraph-Herald'' (Iowa, USA), p. 17 <small>(retrieved 1 July 2011)</small>:
#*: But he just couldn't get the ball through the goal posts (poor Harry . . . he didn't '''eat his Wheaties''', or else his shoe was on backwards).
#* '''1994''' Sep. 11, "Garbage Collector Lifts Away Worries," ''Miami Herald'', p. 1B:
#*: Jo-Ann Wonsik answered a Herald want ad for a career requiring day after day of heavy lifting. . . . "And you've got to '''eat your Wheaties''' on this job," she said.
#* '''2008''' Dec. 10, Felicity Barringer, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/11/us/11pasadena.html Science Students Get a Real-Life Lesson, in Science Fiction ]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 1 July 2011)</small>:
#*: Of all the movie promotions in all the towns in all the world, Keanu Reeves had to walk into this one: a California Institute of Technology forum at which he was asked, “How could an alien being grow so fast without violating standard mass- and energy-conservation laws?” . . . He paused. “I '''ate my Wheaties'''."

====See also====
* [[gird up one's loins]]