{{wikipedia|dab=economy (disambiguation)|economy}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[œconomy]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|oeconomia|lang=la}} from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|οἰκονομία||management of a household, administration|tr=oikonomia|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}} from {{term|οἶκος||house|tr=oikos|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}} + {{term|νόμος||law|tr=nomos|lang=grc|sc=polytonic}}.  The first recorded sense of the word "economy", found in a work possibly composed in 1440, is "the management of economic affairs", in this case, of a monastery.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/iːˈkɒn.ə.mi/|/ɪˈkɒn.ə.mi/}}, {{SAMPA|/i:"kQn.@.mi/|/I"kQn.@.mi/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ĕ'kô'nô'mĕ}}
* {{audio|en-us-economy.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|econom|ies}}

# Effective management of the resources of a community or system.
# The collective focus of the study of money, currency and trade, and the efficient use of resources.
# Frugal use of resources.
# The system of production and distribution and consumption. The overall measure of a currency system; as the national economy.
# {{theology}} The method of [[divine]] [[government]] of the world.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from economy}}
* [[economic]]
* [[economist]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[economize]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top|terms related to economy}}
* [[economical]]
* [[economics]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[macroeconomics]]
* [[microeconomics]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|effective management of the resources of a community or system}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|economia|f}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|gospodarka|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|uchumi|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|frugal use of resources}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|اقتصاد|m|tr=iqtiṣād}}
* Chinese: [[經濟]], [[经济]] (jīngjì)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|úspornost|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|økonomi|c}}
* French: {{t+|fr|économie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wirtschaft|f}}, {{t+|de|Ökonomie|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|economia|f}},  {{t+|it|risparmio|m}}
* Japanese: [[経済]] ([[けいざい]], keizai)
* Korean: [[경제]] (gyeongje)
* Russian: [[экономия]] (ekonómija){{f}}, [[бережливость]] (berežlívost’) {{f}}, [[экономичность]] (ekonomíčnost’) {{f}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|privreda|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|production and distribution and consumption}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|اقتصاد|m|tr=iqtiṣād}}
* Chinese: [[經濟]], [[经济]] (jīngjì)
* Czech: [[ekonomika]] {{f}}, [[hospodářství]] {{n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|økonomi|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|talous}}
* French: {{t+|fr|économie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wirtschaft|f}}, {{t+|de|Ökonomie|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|geilleagar|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|economia|f}}
* Japanese: [[経済]] ([[けいざい]], keizai)
* Korean: [[경제]] (gyeongje)
* [[Ossetian]]: {{tø|os|экономикæ|tr=ekonomikae|sc=Cyrl}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|اقتصاد|tr=eqteSâd|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ekonomia|f}}
* Russian: [[экономика]] (ekonómika) {{f}}, [[хозяйство]] (xozjájstovo) {{n}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|привреда|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|privreda|f}}
* [[Tatar]]: {{t|tt|икътисад|tr=ik'tisad|sc=Cyrl|xs=Tatar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Armenian}}: {{t-|hy|տնտեսություն|tr=tntesut'yun}}
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[majandus]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[economie]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Faroese}}: [[búskapur]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Binnenwirtschaft]]
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: [[οικονομία]] (ikonomía) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[ekonomi]]
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[aborî]] {{f}}, [[ekonomî]] {{f}}, [[îqtisad]] {{f}}, {{ku-Arab|[[ئابووری]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[oeconomia]], [[œconomia]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Luxembourgish}}: [[Ökonomie]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Malay}}: [[ekonomi]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[økonomi]] ? {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: ''cheap:'' [[econômico]] {{m}}; ''science:'' [[economia]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[economía]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[ekonomi]]
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ekonomi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[cheap]] to run; using minimal resources; representing good [[value]] for [[money]].
#: "He bought an '''economy''' car."
#: "'''Economy''' size".

====Translations====
* Russian: [[экономный]] (ekonómnyj)

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|cemnooy}}
* [[monoecy#English|monoecy]]

[[ar:economy]]
[[zh-min-nan:economy]]
[[et:economy]]
[[el:economy]]
[[fr:economy]]
[[gl:economy]]
[[ko:economy]]
[[io:economy]]
[[id:economy]]
[[it:economy]]
[[kn:economy]]
[[kk:economy]]
[[ku:economy]]
[[lo:economy]]
[[lv:economy]]
[[hu:economy]]
[[ml:economy]]
[[nl:economy]]
[[ja:economy]]
[[no:economy]]
[[pl:economy]]
[[pt:economy]]
[[ru:economy]]
[[simple:economy]]
[[fi:economy]]
[[sv:economy]]
[[ta:economy]]
[[te:economy]]
[[vi:economy]]
[[zh:economy]]