==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|educamat}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|humorous}} {{form of|en|Mistaken form|educate}}
#* '''1996''' October 21, "Phase" &lt;I1700004@VM.SC.EDU&gt;, "Re: What is MUD?", ''rec.games.frp.dnd'', Usenet,
#*: Since I only have a shoddy understanding of the internet, obviously I need to be educated, eh? '''Educamate''' me Mr. Man.
#* '''1998''' August 14, "!Frank" &lt;mrpuniverse@yahoo.com&gt;, "Re: WHAT HAPPENED TO ALL OF THE COSBY KIDS?", ''rec.arts.tv'', Usenet,
#*: This is not spam, btw. Go to: <nowiki>http://www.spark.org</nowiki> . '''Educamate''' yourself.
#* '''2005''' February 5, "SuperGumby [SBS MVP]", "Re: Resolution was Re: RWW Security was compromised.", ''microsoft.public.windows.server.sbs'', Usenet,
#*: Well, after the storm in a teacup Susan, I see no reason why a 'password' is not as effective as a 'passphrase'.
#*: maybe<!--sic lowercase--> you could '''educamate''' me.
#* '''2006''' December 17, Sancho Panza &lt;otterpower@xhotmail.com&gt;, "Re: Jews Strive To Restore Christmas Trees At Seattle Airport", ''alt.abortion'', et al., Usenet,
#*: You're the one calling people stupid. '''Educamate''' us.
#* '''2007''' August 15, "What Me Worry?", "Re: Bad day for rightwingers and it'll get worse, much worse", ''alt.politics'', Usenet,
#*: "My, my, how little you know about politics."
#*: Why not '''educamate''' us? I can't wait.
#* '''2007''' October 22, Ophelia &lt;O@nix.co.uk&gt;, "Re: Violet [SNUK]", ''rec.arts.tv.uk.coronation-st'', Usenet,
#*: But see, ya 'ave to be '''educamated''' to un'erston' such poetry!

====Related terms====
* [[educamation]]

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aacdeemtu|edumacate}}