{{wikipedia}}
{{also|éducation}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|generally jocular}} [[educashun]], [[educamation]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|educatio|ēducātiō|a breeding, bringing up, rearing}} < {{term|lang=la|educare|ēducāre|to educate}} < {{term|educere|ēducēre}}; see [[educate#Etymology|educate]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛdjuːkeɪʃn/}}
* {{audio|en-us-education.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪʃǝn}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{uncountable}} The process or art of [[imparting]] [[knowledge]], [[skill]] and [[judgment]]
#: ''A good teacher is essential for a good '''education'''''
# {{countable}} [[fact|Facts]], [[skill]]s and [[idea]]s that have been [[learnt]], either [[formally]] or [[informally]]
#: ''He has had a classical '''education'''.''
#: ''The '''educations''' our children receive depend on their economic status.''

====Derived terms====
* [[educational]]
* [[educationist]]
* [[primary education]]
* [[secondary education]]
* [[tertiary education]]
* [[higher education]]
* [[further education]]




Use a pre-written term papers as models to jump start your own assignment.

The single most challenging task, which needs to be tackled, while still in school, college or university is the writing of book reports, essays, [http://www.flashpapers.com Term Papers], theses and dissertations. As most teachers would confirm, writing builds character. Integrity comes with referencing the sources for which, ideas, themes, facts and much more are taken. Choosing the right topic and following-up with factually sound and aesthetically pleasing writing styles helps in maturity of thought and communication skills. 

All of the above mentioned traits can be easily found in many students who score exceptionally well in all their academic courses with near perfect GPA scores. Yet, as they say, ‘some are born great…’ there are others who have to work hard to achieve greatness (ignoring for the sake of our argument the ones who have greatness thrust upon them – case in point: one of our past presidents). 

Support groups can be a great help in gathering the right research material, however compiling a term paper, or any other assignment for that matter, which will guarantee a grade that  you would like to call your girl friend about or take home to your mother requires a different approach as most would think. 

Writing with the right format in mind, proper English (grammar, spelling, punctuation, etc.), exact reference styles, etc. are some of the few aspects which will help you in achieving that straight and pointy A. The right flow of the paragraphs from one to the other, the presentation of the concepts in a way that conveys the exact idea which you had when you wrote the title of your paper is something which distinguishes an average writer from an exceptionally talented student. 

Here comes the crux of this attempt of an article, whereby, to attempt the impossible all you need to do is read up the papers written by the greats. Emulate their writing and presentation styles, use of vocabulary, etc. and you will end up not half as bad. This is true for most of us average Toms, Dicks and Harry Potters. 

Finding these grade winning papers is easier than most of you may think, as they will be scattered away in plain sight and only viewable by those who seek them. In simpler English, browse the internet, ask your teachers, go through your local library. Once you find that paper, have researched the right information, emulated the writing style of the greats, referenced your paper in the right paper, proof-read your finished paper, pray that you get a good grade. Hope you will find this information useful and just maybe you have learned something if you have read this far. 

Disclaimer: If you do not get a good grade by using the above information, just go back online and read more information on how to write a term paper. 

Courtesy: Flash [http://www.flashpapers.com Term Papers]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|process or art of imparting knowledge, skill and judgment}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[تعليم]]}} (taʻmīl), {{Arab|[[تربية]]}} (tarbiyya)
* Chinese: [[教育]] (jiàoyù), [[教學]], [[教学]] (jiàoxué), [[教養]], [[教养]] (jiàoyǎng)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|obrazovanje|n|alt=obrazovánje}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vzdělávání|n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|undervisning}}
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|edukasyon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kasvatus}}, {{t+|fi|koulutus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|éducation|f}}, {{t+|fr|enseignement}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|განათლება|tr=ganathleba|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ausbildung|f}}, {{t+|de|Erziehung|f}}, {{t+|de|Schulung|f}}, {{t+|de|Unterricht|m}}, {{t+|de|Pädagogik|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εκπαίδευση|f}},  {{t+|el|παιδεία|f}},  {{t+|el|αγωγή|f}},  {{t+|el|διαπαιδαγώγηση|f}},  {{t+|el|μόρφωση|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|menntun|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|istruzione|f}},  {{t+|it|educazione|f}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[教育]]}} ({{Jpan|[[きょういく]]}}, kyōiku)
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|оқу|tr=oqu|sc=Cyrl|xs=Kazakh}}
* Korean: [[교육]] (gyoyuk)
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|په‌روه‌رده‌|f|tr=[[perwerde]]|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|زانیاری|tr=zanyari|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|utdanning}}
** Nynorsk: [[utdaning]]
** Bokmål: [[utdannelse]]
* Polish: {{t-|pl|edukacja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|educação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|образование|n|tr=obrazovánie}}, {{t+|ru|обучение|n|tr=obučénije}}
* [[Scots]]: [[eddication]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[foghlaim]] {{m}}, [[teagasg]] {{m}}
* Serbian: [[vaspitanje]], [[odgajivanje]], [[obrazovanje]]
* Slovene: [[izobraževanje]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|educación|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|elimu|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|utbildning|c}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t+|tl|edukasyon|xs=Tagalog}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|освіта|f|tr=osvita|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|addysg|f|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|ûnderwiis|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|facts, skills and ideas that have been learned, either formally or informally}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[تعليم]]}} (taʻmīl), {{Arab|[[ثقافة]]}} (ṯaqāfa)
* Chinese: [[教育]] (jiàoyù)
* Croatian: {{t|hr|izobrazba|f|alt=ȉzobrazba}}, {{t|hr|naobrazba|f|alt=nȁobrazba}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vzdělání|n}}
* Danish: [[uddannelse]]
* Filipino: {{tø|fil|edukasyon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kasvatus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|éducation|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bildung|f}}, {{t+|de|Schulung|f}}, {{t+|de|Aufklärung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παιδεία|f}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[教育]]}} ({{Jpan|[[きょういく]]}}, kyōiku)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|utdanning}}
** Nynorsk: [[utdaning]]
** Bokmål: [[utdannelse]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wykształcenie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|educação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|образование|n|tr=obrazovánie}}
* [[Scots]]: [[eddication]]
* Serbian: [[odgoj]], [[obrazovanje]]
* Slovene: [[izobrazba]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|educación|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|elimu|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|utbildning|c}}
* [[Tagalog]]: {{t+|tl|edukasyon|xs=Tagalog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[arsim]], [[edukim]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[onderwijs]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[taşandin]] {{f}}, [[hêvotin]] {{f}}, , [[terbiyet]] {{f}}, [[fêr|fêrkirin]] {{f}}, [[hîn|hînkirin]] {{f}}, [[elimandin]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Malayalam}}: [[വിദ്യാഭ്യാസം]] (vidyaabyaasam) (1),  [[വിദ്യ]] (vidya) (2)
* {{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[elimu]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[విద్య]] (vidya) (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[training]]


===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|acdeinotu}}
* [[auctioned#English|auctioned]]
* [[cautioned#English|cautioned]]


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Education]]

[[ar:education]]
[[zh-min-nan:education]]
[[de:education]]
[[et:education]]
[[el:education]]
[[fr:education]]
[[gl:education]]
[[ko:education]]
[[hy:education]]
[[io:education]]
[[id:education]]
[[it:education]]
[[kn:education]]
[[ka:education]]
[[kk:education]]
[[sw:education]]
[[ku:education]]
[[lo:education]]
[[li:education]]
[[hu:education]]
[[ml:education]]
[[nl:education]]
[[ja:education]]
[[no:education]]
[[pl:education]]
[[pt:education]]
[[ru:education]]
[[simple:education]]
[[fi:education]]
[[sv:education]]
[[tl:education]]
[[ta:education]]
[[te:education]]
[[th:education]]
[[uk:education]]
[[vi:education]]
[[zh:education]]