{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|road|husband|blockquote|552|effect|wanted|probably|especially}}

===Etymology===
For noun: from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|effect|lang=fro}} (French: {{term|effet|lang=fr}}), from {{etyl|la|En}} {{term|effectus||lang=la||an effect, tendency, purpose}}, from {{term|efficio|efficiō|accomplish, complete, effect|lang=la}}; see effect as a verb.

For verb: from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|effectus|lang=la}}, perfect passive participle of {{term|efficio|efficiō|accomplish, complete, do, effect|lang=la}}, from {{term|ex||out|lang=la}} + {{term|facio|faciō|do, make|lang=la}}; see [[fact]] and cf. [[affect]], [[infect]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɪˈfɛkt/}}, {{SAMPA|/I"fEkt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-effect.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛkt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The [[result]] or [[outcome]] of a [[cause]].  ''See [[#Usage notes|usage notes]] below.''
#: ''The '''effect''' of the hurricane was a devastated landscape.''
# {{film}} An illusion produced by technical means (as in "special effect")
#: ''The '''effect''' of flying was most convincing.
# {{soundeng}} An alteration in sound after it has been produced by an instrument.
#: ''I use an echo '''effect''' here to make the sound more mysterious.''
# {{soundeng}} A device for producing an alteration in sound produced by an instrument.
#: ''I just bought a couple of great '''effects'''.''
# The state of being binding and enforceable, as in a rule, policy, or law.
#: ''The new law will come into '''effect''' on the first day of next year.''
# {{physics|lang=hy}} A scientific [[phenomenon]], usually named after its discoverer.
#: ''Doppler effect''
# {{context|usually plural}} [[belongings|Belongings]], usually as [[personal effects]].

====Usage notes====
The homophones “[[affect]]” and “'''effect'''” can both be used as nouns or verbs, but when used as a noun the word affect is limited to uses in the psychology field, and the above definitions for '''effect''' are much more common.  See also the usage notes as a verb below.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|noun phrases using effect}}
* [[butterfly effect]]
* [[domino effect]]
* [[Doppler effect]]
* [[in effect]]
* [[knock-on effect]]
* [[Nader effect]]
* [[personal effects]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[ripple effect]]
* [[side effect]]
* [[snowball effect]]
* [[special effect]]
* [[sound effect]]
* [[spoiler effect]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|result of an action}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تأثير|m|tr=ta'thiir}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|ishod|m}},  {{t-|hr|efekt|m}},  {{t-|hr|učinak|m}},  {{t-|hr|rezultat|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|účinek|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|effect|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|efiko}}
* Finnish: [[seuraus]], ''also'' [[vaikutus]]
* German: {{t+|de|Auswirkung|f}}, {{t+|de|Wirkung|f}}
* Japanese: [[影響]] (eikyō), [[結果]] (kekka), [[効果]] (kōka), [[作用]] (sayō)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[효과]] ([[効果]], hyogwa)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|effekt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|efeito|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эффект|m}}, {{t+|ru|результат|m}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|buil|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|učinek|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|efecto|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|madhara|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|movie and television industries term}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|dojam|m}},  {{t-|hr|efekt|m}}
* Japanese: [[音響効果]] (onkyō-kōka)
* Portuguese: [[efeitos especiais]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эффект|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|učinek|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|madhara|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sound engineering and production term}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|efekt}}
* German: {{t+|de|Effekt|m}}
* Japanese: [[エフェクター]] (efekutā)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[efeito sonoro]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эффект|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|madhara|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state of being binding and enforceable}}
* Japanese: [[発効]] (hakkō)
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|madhara|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|scientific phenomenon}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|երևույթ|tr=erevuyt’}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|učinak|m}},  {{t-|hr|efekt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эффект|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[padarinys]] {{m}}, [[rezultatas]] {{m}}, [[pasekmė]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make or bring about; to implement.
#: ''The best way to '''effect''' change is to work with existing stakeholders.''

====Usage notes====
'''Effect''' is often confused with “'''[[affect]]'''”.  The latter is used to convey the influence over existing ideas, emotions and entities; the former indicates the manifestation of new or original ideas or entities:
* “...new governing coalitions have '''effected''' major changes” indicates that major changes were made as a result of new governing coalitions.
* “...new governing coalitions have '''affected''' major changes” indicates that before new governing coalitions, major changes were in place, and that the new governing coalitions had some influence over these existing changes.

====Related terms====
{{rel-top|terms related to effect (verb)}}
* [[effective]]
* [[effectiveness]]
* [[effectivity]]
* [[effector]]
* [[effectual]]
* [[effectuate]]
* [[efficacious]]
* [[efficacity]]
* [[efficacy]]
* [[efficiency]]
* [[efficient]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make or bring about; to implement}}
* Bulgarian: [[еффект]], [[действие]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saada aikaan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|effectuer}}
* German: {{t+|de|bewirken}}
* Japanese: [[達成する]]　(tassei-suru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[efectuar]], [[efectivar]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|efecto}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|madhara|xs=Swahili}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|etki}}, {{t+|tr|sonuç}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English words affected by confusion]]

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-effect.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=n|dim=*}}

# [[#English|effect]]

[[ar:effect]]
[[de:effect]]
[[et:effect]]
[[el:effect]]
[[es:effect]]
[[fa:effect]]
[[fr:effect]]
[[ko:effect]]
[[hy:effect]]
[[io:effect]]
[[id:effect]]
[[it:effect]]
[[kn:effect]]
[[ku:effect]]
[[lo:effect]]
[[li:effect]]
[[hu:effect]]
[[ml:effect]]
[[nl:effect]]
[[pl:effect]]
[[pt:effect]]
[[ru:effect]]
[[simple:effect]]
[[fi:effect]]
[[ta:effect]]
[[te:effect]]
[[th:effect]]
[[tr:effect]]
[[vi:effect]]
[[zh:effect]]