{{slim-wikipedia|dab=El}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "el"}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛl/}}, {{SAMPA|/El/}}

===Etymology 1===
{{rfe}}

====Alternative forms====
* [[L]]
* [[ell]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{Latn-def|en|name|L|l}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|name of the letter L, l}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|إل|m|tr='el}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{qualifier|English letter names are called as in English, no other standard Mandarin name exists}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|lo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ελ|n|tr=el}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|एल|tr=el|xs=Hindi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|エル|tr=eru}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|엘|tr=el|sc=Hang}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ele|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эл|n|tr=el}}, {{t+|ru|эль|n|tr=el'}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|le}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|elle|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{list|en|Latin script letter names}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology 2===
{{abbreviation}}

====Alternative forms====
* [[L]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{US}} An [[elevated train]], especially for specific systems such as the metro in Chicago.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|elevated train}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[LαE#English|LαE]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]
[[Category:Latin letter names]]

----

==Anglo-Norman==

===Contraction===
{{infl|xno|contraction}}

# Contraction of '''{{l|xno|en}}''' + '''{{l|xno|le}}''' (in the)
#* '''circa 1250''', [[wikipedia:Marie de France|Marie de France]], ''[[w:Lais of Marie de France|Equitan]]''
#*: m'est une anguisse '''el''' quer ferue, ki tut le cors me fet trembler
#*:: Such a pain has pierced my heart, that makes my whole body quiver

----

==Asturian==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=ast}}

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=ast}}

===Article===
{{infl|ast|article|g=m|g2=s|feminine|la|neuter|lo|masculine plural|los|feminine plural|les}}

# {{definite|lang=ast}} [[the]]

====Usage notes====
* The article ''el'' contracts to [[l’]] before a word beginning with a vowel or ''h'': ''l'asturianu'' (the Asturian), ''l'hermanu'' (the brother)
* The article ''el'' contracts to [[’l]] after a word that ends in a vowel, if the following word begins with a consonant.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''el''}}
* {{l|ast|al}}
* {{l|ast|col}}
* {{l|ast|del}}
* {{l|ast|nel}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|ast|pal}}
* {{l|ast|pel}}
* {{l|ast|pol}}
* {{l|ast|sol}}
{{rel-bottom}}

----

==Breton==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=br}}

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=br}}

===Contraction===
{{infl|br|contraction}}

# [[e#Breton|e]] {{qualifier|preposition “in”}} + [[ul#Breton|ul]] {{qualifier|indefinite article “a(n)”}}
# [[e#Breton|e]] {{qualifier|preposition “in”}} + [[al#Breton|al]] {{qualifier|definite article “the”}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|VL.|ca}} {{term|illum|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/əl/|/el/|lang=ca}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[es]] {{qualifier|salat}} in Balearic dialects.
* [[lo]] {{qualifier|colloquial}} in North occidental dialects.

===Article===
{{ca-adj|cat=article|fstem=l}}

# [[the]]; {{non-gloss definition|masculine singular definite article}}

====Usage notes====
Before a word that begins with a vowel or ''h-'', the form {{term|l'|lang=ca}} is used.

====See also====
* [[en]], masculine singular definite article for given names.

===Pronoun===
{{ca-ppron|type=procl|procl_con=l'|encl=lo|encl_con='l}}

# [[him]] (direct object)

====Declension====
{{ca-decl-ppron}}

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=crh}}

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=crh}}

===Noun===
'''el'''

# [[hand]], [[forearm]].
# [[ell]].

====Declension====
{{crh-latin-noun|niñ|ge|ni|de|den}}

===References===
* {{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

[[Category:Crimean Tatar nouns]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|elri||alder|lang=non}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ɛl/|[ɛlˀ]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{da-noun|stem=ell|en|e}}

# [[alder]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=ell|en|e}}

===Etymology 2===
Introduced in the 1940’s after Swedish {{term|el|lang=sv}}, abbreviation of {{term|elektricitet||electricity|lang=da}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ɛl/|[ɛl]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{da-noun|stem=ell|en|-}}

# [[electricity]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[strøm]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛl/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-el.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun}}

# {{archaic|lang=nl}} yard {{gloss|unit of measurement}}

====Derived terms====
* [[ellenlang]]

[[Category:nl:Units of measure]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈel/|lang=eo}}

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=eo}}

===Preposition===
{{infl|eo|preposition}}

# [[out]] (of)

{{eo BRO|1}}

----

==Galician==

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|lang=gl}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|ille||that|lang=la}}.

===Pronoun===
{{gl-pron|form=nom|g=m|dat=lle|acc=o}}

# [[he]] (''masculine singular third-person personal pronoun'')

====Related terms====
* {{l|gl|ela}}
* {{l|gl|elas}}
* {{l|gl|eles}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Galician pronouns]]
* {{l|gl|consigo}}
* {{l|gl|se}}
* {{l|gl|seu}}
* {{l|gl|si}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛl/|lang=hu}}
* {{audio|Hu-el.ogg|Audio}}

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=hu}}

===Adverb===
{{infl|hu|adverb}}

# [[off]]
#: '''''El''' a kezekkel!''
#:: Hands off!
# [[away]]
#: ''Anna '''el'''ment? Nem ment '''el'''.''
#:: Has Anna left? No, she has not.

===See also===
* [[el-]]

[[Category:Hungarian two-letter words]]

----

==Occitan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|oc}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|oc|personal pronoun}}

# [[he]] (third-person singular subject pronoun)
# [[it]] (third-person singular subject pronoun)

----

==Old English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/el/|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|head=el|g=m}}

# [[#English|el]], the letter [[L]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|enl}} (very rare)

===Contraction===
{{infl|fro|contraction}}

# contraction of '''{{l|fro|en}}''' + '''{{l|fro|le}}''' (in the)

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/jel/|lang=ro}}, {{SAMPA|/jel/}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} {{term|illum|lang=la}}, accusative masculine singular of {{term|ille|lang=la}}.

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ro|personal pronoun|gender=m|third-person singular}}

# [[he]]

====Declension====
{| style="background:#F0F0F0" cellpadding="3"
|-
! colspan="4" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | Nominative
|-
| colspan="4" align="center"| el

|-
! colspan="4" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | Accusative
|-
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>stressed</small>
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>unstressed</small>
|-
| colspan="2" align="center"| el
| colspan="2" align="center"| [[îl]]

|-
! colspan="4" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | Genitive
|-
| align="center" colspan="4" | [[lui]]
|-
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>Singular</small>
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>Plural</small>
|-
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>{{m}} & {{n}}</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>{{f}}</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>{{m}}</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>{{f}} & {{n}}</small>
|-
| align="center" | [[său]]
| align="center" | [[sa]]
| align="center" | [[săi]]
| align="center" | [[sale]]

|-
! colspan="4" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | Dative
|-
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>stressed</small>
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>unstressed</small>
|-
| colspan="2" align="center"| [[lui]]
| colspan="2" align="center"| [[îi]]

|-
! colspan="4" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | Reflexive
|-
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>Accusative</small>
! colspan="2" width="50%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>Dative</small>
|-
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>stressed</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>unstressed</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>stressed</small>
! width="25%" style="background:#e2e4cb" | <small>unstressed</small>
|-
| align="center" | [[sine]]
| align="center" | [[se]]
| align="center" | [[sieşi]]
| align="center" | [[îşi]]
|}

====Synonyms====
* [[dumnealui]] {{qualifier|polite form}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ro|ea}}

----

==Romansch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|rm}} {{term|ille|lang=la}}.

===Pronoun===
{{infl|rm|pronoun}}

# [[he]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/el/|lang=es}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|ille|lang=la}}.

====Article====
'''el''' (plural: [[los]]; feminine: [[la]]; plural feminine: [[las]]; neuter: [[lo]])

# Masculine singular definite article; [[the]].

=====Usage notes=====
The prepositions {{term|de|lang=es}} and {{term|a|lang=es}} contract with {{term||el}}, unless {{term||el}} is part of a proper noun.
: ''El misionario se fue '''a El''' Salvador para predicar '''al''' Salvador.''

=====Related terms=====
* [[él]]
* [[le]]
* [[lo]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|osp|es}} {{term|ela|lang=osp}}, from {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|illa|lang=la}}.

====Article====
'''el''' (plural: '''[[las]]''') {{f}}

# Feminine singular definite article used before nouns which start with a stressed /a/:
#: ''el alma'', pl. ''las almas''
#: ''el hacha'', pl. ''las hachas''

[[Category:Spanish articles]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/eːl/|lang=sv}}

===Etymology===
A contraction of ''elektricitet'' or ''elektrisk'', that must have taken place between 1920 and 1975. SAOB (letter E edited in 1921) does not mention this, but does mention the prefix [[elektro-]]. ''Lilla Focus'' (1961) mentions el- as a prefix, but not as a word of its own.

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[electricity]], [[electric]] [[current]] or [[power]]; {{contraction of|elektricitet|lang=sv}} or {{term|lang=sv|elektrisk}}
#* '''1957''', used as a prefix, §14, [http://riksdagen.se/webbnav/index.aspx?nid=3911&bet=1957:262 Lag (1957:262) om allmän energiskatt]
#*: ''elektrisk kraft som förbrukas för '''el-''', gas-, värme- eller vattenförsörjning i andra kommuner''
#*:: electric power which is used for the supply of electricity, gas, heating or water in other municipalities
#* '''1975''', [[w:sv:Håkan Winberg|Håkan Winberg]] (m), speaking in the Riksdag on May 27 ([http://riksdagen.se/webbnav/index.aspx?nid=101&bet=1975:92 protocol], page 264)
#*: ''Vidare är den del av marknaden som har den högsta betalningsförmågan, dvs. hushållen, inriktad på användning av '''el'''.''
#*:: Also the part of the market which has the highest purchasing power, i.e. the households, is set for the use of electricity.
#* '''1980''', Rune Torwald (c), speaking in the Riksdag on January 11 ([http://riksdagen.se/webbnav/index.aspx?nid=101&bet=1979/80:61 protocol], page 46)
#*: ''När man använder så stor andel av '''elen''' till att värma upp bostäder som ju bara utnyttjas vintertid och inte på sommaren, så får man stora säsongvariationer.''
#*:: When using so large a portion of the electricity to heat homes, something which is only used in the winter and not in the summer, one will get large seasonal variations.

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-unc-irreg-c|2=elen}}

====Related terms====
* [[elanvändning]]
* [[elavbrott]]
* [[elkabel]]
* [[elkraft]]
* [[elmätare]]
* [[elnät]]
* [[elöverföring]]
* [[elöverkänslig]]
* [[elsäkerhet]]
* [[elstängsel]]
* [[elström]]
* [[elverk]]

[[Category:sv:Energy]]

----

==Turkish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/el/|lang=tr}} or {{IPA|/əl/|lang=tr}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} ''elig'' (“hand”), from {{proto|Turkic|lang=tr}}.

====Noun====
{{tr-noun|i|ler}}

# [[hand]]

===Etymology 2===

====Noun====
{{tr-noun|i|ler}}

# a [[foreign]] person

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} ''él'', from {{proto|Turkic|lang=tr}}.

====Noun====
{{tr-noun|i|ler}}

# [[country]], [[homeland]], [[province]]

=====Declension=====
{{tr-noun-c|e|d}}

----

==Volapük==

===Article===
{{infl|vo|article}}

# [[the]] {{gloss|used for all proper nouns and also foreign loanwords not yet assimilated into Volapük}}
#: {{usex|'''El''' Karl binom ziom '''ela''' Katlin.|translation=Karl is Katlin's uncle.}}

====Usage notes====
* The article '''el''' is used to modify any kind of noun (proper or foreign) which is itself indeclinable in Volapük. Then, whenever that noun needs to be declined, the article '''el''' which modifies it is declined in its stead.

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-article}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|vo|hiel}}
* [[jiel]]

[[ar:el]]
[[az:el]]
[[zh-min-nan:el]]
[[ca:el]]
[[cs:el]]
[[de:el]]
[[et:el]]
[[el:el]]
[[es:el]]
[[eo:el]]
[[fa:el]]
[[fr:el]]
[[fy:el]]
[[gl:el]]
[[ko:el]]
[[hr:el]]
[[io:el]]
[[it:el]]
[[ka:el]]
[[ky:el]]
[[ku:el]]
[[lo:el]]
[[la:el]]
[[lb:el]]
[[lt:el]]
[[li:el]]
[[hu:el]]
[[nl:el]]
[[ja:el]]
[[no:el]]
[[pl:el]]
[[pt:el]]
[[ro:el]]
[[ru:el]]
[[fi:el]]
[[sv:el]]
[[tr:el]]
[[vi:el]]
[[vo:el]]
[[wa:el]]
[[zh:el]]