{{also|elsa}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|de|en}} {{m|de|Elsa}}, contraction of {{m|de|Elisabeth}}, occasionally used in English after its appearance in [[Wagner]]'s opera ''Lohengrin'' (1847).

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|en|female|from=Hebrew}}.
#* '''1988''' [[w:Ruth Rendell|Barbara Vine]], ''The House of Stairs'', Onyx(1990), {{ISBN|0451402111}}, page 35:
#*: A friend that I envied — it was the same friend who had benefited from admiring Cosette's jewelry, a girl whose name was '''Elsa''' and whom naturally we called Lioness —

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aels|ELAS|LAEs|LEAs|SEAL|Sale|Salé|Seal|Sela|aels|ales|lase|leas|sale|seal}}

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{cs-IPA|elza}}
* {{hyphenation|cs|El|sa}}

===Proper noun===
{{cs-proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|cs|female}}.

====Declension====
{{cs-decl-noun-auto|f|El|s|a}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|cs|Elsin}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:KNLA}}
* {{R:SSJC}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|cs|lesy}}
* {{l|cs|sely}}

----

==Faroese==

===Proper noun===
{{head|fo|proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|fo|female}}

====Usage notes====
''Matronymics''
* son of Elsa: '''Elsuson'''
* daughter of Elsa: '''Elsudóttir'''

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-proper-noun-s-indef|Elsa|Elsu|Elsu|Elsu}}

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
From {{der|fi|de|-}} and {{der|fi|sv|-}} {{m|de|Elsa}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{fi-pronunciation}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{given name|fi|female}}.
#* '''1894''' {{w|Teuvo Pakkala}}, ''Elsa'', SKS (1995), {{ISBN|951-717-841-7}}, page 11:
#*: Voisiko hänenkin tyttärelleen käydä noin, vaikka hän uskoisi Jumalaan, uskoisi niin vakavasti kuin on uskonut, että hän varjelee '''Elsan'''? Ei, se on mahdotonta!
#* '''2014''' [[w:fi:Heidi Jaatinen|Heidi Jaatinen]], ''Kaksi viatonta päivää'', Gummerus, {{ISBN|978-951-20-9511-7}}, pages 153-154:
#*: Ja hän melkein hymyili sille. Ja sai tietää, että tytöllä oli nimi: '''Elsa'''. Siro nimi puhumattomalle tytölle.

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-kala|Els|||a}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
Medieval diminutive of {{m|de|Elisabeth}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/ˈʔɛlza/}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|de|female}}.

----

==Italian==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|la|it}} {{m|la|Elsa}}.

===Proper noun===
{{wikipedia|lang=it}}
{{it-proper noun}}

# {{place|it|river|r/Tuscany}}

===Etymology 2===
Contraction of {{m|it|Elisabetta}} or {{m|it|Elisa}}.

===Proper noun===
{{it-proper noun|f}}

# {{given name|it|female}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{m|no|Elisabet}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|no|female}}.

----

==Spanish==

===Proper noun===
{{es-proper noun|f}}

# {{given name|es|female}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
Rare medieval contraction of {{m|sv|Elisabet}}, also a variant Danish {{m|da|Else}}. First recorded in Sweden in 1422. Taken to general use in the 19th century through the influence of the identical German name.

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|c}}

# {{given name|sv|female}}.

===References===
* Roland Otterbjörk: Svenska förnamn, Almqvist & Wiksell 1996, {{ISBN|91-21-10937-0}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20100328044612/http://www.scb.se/Pages/NameSearch____259432.aspx] Statistiska centralbyrån and Sture Allén, Staffan Wåhlin, ''Förnamnsboken'', Norstedts 1995, {{ISBN|9119551622}}: 42 087 females with the given name Elsa living in Sweden on December 31st, 2010, with frequency peaks in the 19th century and in the 2000s. Accessed on 19 June 2011.