{{also|Appendix:Variations of "en"|Appendix:ISO 639-1 language codes}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
{{rel-top|all pronunciations}}
; Abbreviation
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɛn/|/i.ɛn/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/En/|/i.En/}}

; Noun
* {{a|UK|US}} {{enPR|ĕn}}, {{IPA|/ɛn/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/En/}}
* {{rhymes|ɛn}}

; Preposition
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/õ/|/ɑ̃/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/o~/|/A~/}}
* {{a|UK|Anglicised}} {{IPA|/ɒn/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/Qn/}}
{{rel-bottom}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''en'''

# [[English]]

===Etymology 1===
The name of the letter comes from {{etyl|la}} {{term|en|lang=la}}.  Typographic sense 1793.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{Latn-def|en|name|N|n}}
#: ''The ems and ens at the beginnings and ends.''
# {{typography}} A unit of measurement equal to [[half]] of an [[em]] (half of the height of the [[type]] in use).

=====Derived terms=====
* {{sense|typography}} [[en dash]]
* {{sense|typography}} [[en quad]]
* {{sense|typography}} [[en space]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|name of the letter N, n}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|إن|m|tr='en}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|ena|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{qualifier|English letter names are called as in English, no other standard Mandarin name exists}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|no|xs=Esperanto}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|एन|tr=en|xs=Hindi}}
* Italian: {{t|it|enne|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|エヌ|tr=enu}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|엔|tr=en|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: {{t|la|en}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|एन|tr=en|sc=Deva}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ene|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эн|n|tr=en}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|ene|f}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|ne}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|en-nờ}}, {{t|vi|en}}, {{t|vi|nờ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|enne|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* {{list|en|Latin script letter names}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fr|en}}

====Preposition====
{{en-prep}}

# Used in various phrases borrowed from French (see "Derived terms" below).

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from ''en''}}
* ''[[en ami]]''
* ''[[en banc]]''
* ''[[en bloc]]''
* ''[[en brochette]]''
* ''[[en clair]]''
{{rel-mid4}}
* ''[[en effet]]''
* ''[[en famille]]''
* ''[[en garçon]]''
* ''[[en garde]]''
* ''[[en masse]]''
{{rel-mid4}}
* ''[[en pantoufles]]''
* ''[[en passant]]''
* ''[[en règle]]''
* ''[[en retard]]''
* ''[[en retraite]]''
{{rel-mid4}}
* ''[[en revanche]]''
* ''[[en route]]''
* ''[[en secondes noces]]''
* ''[[en suite]]''
{{rel-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ne#English|ne]], [[NE#English|NE]], [[né#English|né]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]
[[Category:en:Latin letter names]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Conjunction===
{{head|af|conjunction}}

# [[and]]
# [[well]]
#: Ek sit ''en'' drink koeldrank — ''I sit ''and'' drink a cold drink.''
#: En? — ''well?''

----

==Anglo-Norman==

===Preposition===
{{head|xno|preposition}}

# [[in]]; [[inside]]

----

==Asturian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ast}} {{term|in|lang=la}}.

===Preposition===
{{head|ast|preposition}}

# [[in]]

====Usage notes====
* The preposition ''en'' contracts to [[n']] before a word beginning with a vowel or ''h-'': ''n'Asturies'' (in Asturias), ''n'honor'' (in honor)

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from en}}
* {{l|ast|n'}}
* {{l|ast|na}}
* {{l|ast|nel}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|ast|nes}}
* {{l|ast|no}}
* {{l|ast|nos}}
{{rel-bottom}}

'''English'''

----

==Breton==

===Contraction===
{{head|br|contraction}}

# [[e#Breton|e]] {{qualifier|preposition "in"}} + [[un#Breton|un]] {{qualifier|indefinite article "a(n)"}}
# [[e#Breton|e]] {{qualifier|preposition "in"}} + [[an#Breton|an]] {{qualifier|definite article "the"}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology 1===
From the final syllable of {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|lang=la|domine||Mister}}.

====Article====
{{head|ca|article|elided|n'|g=m|g2=s|feminine|na}}

# {{Eastern Catalan}} Personal article used before masculine given names instead of the definite article {{term|lang=ca|el}}.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|ca|can}} {{qualifier|contraction of ''ca'' and ''ne''}}

=====Usage notes=====
* While this article (and its feminine counterpart {{term|lang=ca|na}}) is standard in Baleric Catalan, in other Eastern Catalan dialects its use is waning, and the elided of the definite article, {{term|lang=ca|l'}}, is used before names beginning with vowels.  There is no plural personal article, so the plural definite article {{term|lang=ca|els}} is used in all dialects.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|in||in, inside|lang=la}}.

====Preposition====
{{head|ca|preposition}}

# [[in]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|inde||thence|lang=la}}.

====Pronoun====
{{ca-ppron|type=procl|procl_con=n'|encl=ne|encl_con='n}}

# ''represents an indeterminate number or quantity of a given noun''
# ''represents a place (associated with the action described by the verb) that would be introduced by the preposition [[de#Catalan|de]]''
# ''replaces a phrase introduced by the preposition [[de#Catalan|de]]''
# ''replaces the object of a [[causative]] verb''

=====Usage notes=====
* '''En''' cannot be used more than once as the object of a given verb.
* While '''en''' is usually used to replace phrases beginning with the prepostion [[de#Catalan|de]], ''adverbial'' phrases (e.g., [[de pressa]]) are replaced with [[hi#Catalan|hi]].
* '''En''' is sometimes used instead of [[ho#Catalan|ho]] to replace an adjective or indefinite noun as the predicate of a verb.
* '''En''' is sometimes used popularly to add emphasis to a sentence: in this sense, it has no translation in English.
* When '''en''' is used as a preposition to introduce the object of a verb, this object is replaced not by '''en''' but by [[hi#Catalan|hi]]:
*: ''No crec '''en''' Déu'' → ''No '''hi''' crec''.

=====Declension=====
{{ca-decl-ppron}}

====See also====
* [[hi#Catalan|hi]]
* [[ho#Catalan|ho]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Noun===
{{head|crh|noun}}

# [[width]]

----

==Dalmatian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|dlm|in}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|dlm}} {{term|in|lang=la}}.

===Preposition===
{{head|dlm|preposition}}

# [[in]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|dlm|nel}}, {{l|dlm|nei}}, {{l|dlm|nela}}
----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|einn|||lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|ainaz|one, some|lang=da}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|h₁ói-no-|one|lang=da}}.

===Article===
{{head|da|article|neuter|et}}

# [[a]], [[an]]

===Numeral===
{{head|da|numeral|neuter|et}}

# {{cardinal|lang=da}} [[one]]

===Pronoun===
{{head|da|pronoun|head=en ''or'' [[én]]|neuter|et|or|ét|definite|ene}}

# [[one]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{term|ende|lang=dum}}, from {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{term|enda|lang=odt}}, {{term|anda|lang=odt}}, from {{proto|Germanic|andi|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɛn|lang=nl}}
* Stressed: {{IPA|/ɛn/|lang=nl}}
* Unstressed: {{IPA|/ən/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-en.ogg|audio}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|nl|conjunction}}

# [[and]]
#: ''De oude man '''en''' de zee.''
#:: [[w:en:The Old Man and the Sea|The Old Man '''and''' the Sea.]]
# [[well]], [[so]]
#: '''''En''', hoe gaat het ermee?''
#:: '''Well''', how're you doing?
#: '''''En'''?''
#:: '''Well'''?
#: '''''En''', wat zou dat?''
#:: '''So''' what?
# {{mathematics|lang=nl}} [[plus]], [[and]]
#: ''Drie '''en''' vier is zeven.''
#:: Three '''plus''' four is seven.

====Derived terms====
* [[door en door]]
* [[en dan]]
* [[en of]]
* [[en toch]]
* [[nou en]]

===See also===
* [[dus]]
* [[maar]]
* [[of]]

===Anagrams===
* [[ne#Dutch|ne]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Preposition===
{{eo-prep}}

# [[in]], [[within]], [[inside]]
#: ''Ĝi estas '''en''' la domo.''  
#:: It is in (within, inside) the house.
# [[into]] (when followed by a noun or phrase in the accusative case)
#: ''Li iras '''en''' la domo'''n'''.''  
#:: He goes into the house.

====Derived terms====
* [[ene#Esperanto|ene]]

{{eo BRO|1}}

===Noun===
{{eo-noun|pl=en-oj|asg=en-on|apl=en-ojn}}

# {{Latn-def|eo|name|N|n}}

====See also====
* {{list|eo|Latin script letter names}}

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[en]|lang=fi}}
* {{hyphenation|en|lang=fi}}

===Verb===
{{head|fi|verb negative form}}

# The first-person singular form of the [[negation]] [[verb]]. The English translations include ''[[do]] [[not]]''/''[[don't|don’t]]'' and ''[[not]]'' (with auxiliary verbs and ''[[be]]'').

====Conjugation====
* The negative verb has ''no infinitive form''. The negative verb is the same with indicative, conditional and potential mood and, with those moods, it is conjugated only in person. (For the negative verb in the [[imperative]] mood, see ''[[älä]]''/''[[älköön]]''/''[[älkäämme]]''/''[[älkää]]''/''[[älkööt]]'' &mdash; the first person singular, naturally, does not have an imperative form. An archaic [[w:Optative mood|optative mood]] has a second-person singular form, ''[[ällös]]''.)

{| border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="1" style="border-collapse: collapse;"
|-
| || '''singular''' || '''plural'''
|-
| first person || '''en''' || [[emme#Finnish|emme]]
|-
| second person || [[et#Finnish|et]] || [[ette#Finnish|ette]]
|-
| third person || [[ei#Finnish|ei]] || [[eivät#Finnish|eivät]]
|}

====Usage notes====
* The negative verb is used with the connegative form of the main verb. That form is identical to the second-person singular imperative in the indicative present. The potential mood connegative ends in the marker for the mood, ''-ne-'', and the conditional mood connegative ends in the marker for the mood, ''-isi-''. In the indicative past, conditional past and potential past, the ''active'' past participle singular (ending -''ut''/-''yt'') is used. ''The connegative form of the main verb is always used without the personal suffix''.

:* Usage of ''en'':
::* Indicative:

:::* [[minä|Minä]] [[nähdä|näen]]. (I see.) -> Minä '''en''' näe. (I ''do not'' see.)
:::* Minä näin. (I saw.) -> Minä '''en''' nähnyt. (I ''did not'' see.)
:::* Minä [[olla|olen]] nähnyt. (I have seen.) -> Minä '''en''' ole nähnyt. (I have ''not'' seen.)
:::* Minä olin nähnyt. (I had seen.) -> Minä '''en''' ollut nähnyt. (I had ''not'' seen.)

::* Conditional:
:::* Minä näkisin. (I would see.) -> Minä '''en''' näkisi. (I would ''not'' see.)
:::* Minä olisin nähnyt. (I would have seen.) -> Minä '''en''' olisi nähnyt. (I would ''not'' have seen.)

::* Potential:
:::* Minä nähnen. (I probably see.) -> Minä '''en''' nähne. (I probably ''do not'' see.)
:::* Minä lienen nähnyt. (I have probably seen.) -> Minä '''en''' liene nähnyt. (I have probably ''not'' seen.)

===Anagrams===
* [[ne#Finnish|ne]]

[[Category:Finnish two-letter words]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|in|lang=la}}, {{term|inde|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɑ̃/|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-en.ogg|audio}}
* Homophones: [[an]]

===Pronoun===
{{head|fr|pronoun}}

# Used as the object of a verb to indicate an indefinite quantity; [[of]] [[it]], [[of]] [[them]].
#: ''Tu as combien de livres ? J''''en''' ai trois.'' — How many books do you have? I have three ('''of them''').
#: ''Y a-t-il beaucoup de pièces ? Oui. Il y '''en''' a beaucoup.'' — Are there many rooms? Yes, there are many ('''of them''').
#: ''Martin a trois sandwichs, mais j''''en''' ai seulement deux.'' - Martin has three sandwiches, but I have only two ('''of them''').
#: ''Il y '''en''' a combien ?'' - How many '''of them''' are there?
#: ''Je bois de l'alcool parce que j''''en''' ai besoin'' - I drink alcohol because I need ('''of''') '''it'''.
# Adverbial preposition indicating movement away from a place already mentioned. En replaces the  partitive article (du, de la, etc.)
#: ''Est-ce qu'elle vient de Barcelone ? Oui, elle '''en''' vient.'' — Does she come from Barcelona? Yes, she does.

=====Related terms=====
{{French personal pronouns}}

===Preposition===
{{fr-prep}}

# [[in]] {{gloss|used to indicate space}}
#: ''J'habite '''en''' Angleterre.''
#:: I live in England.
# [[by]] {{gloss|used to indicate means}}
#: ''aller '''en''' bus''
#:: go by bus
#: ''partir '''en''' voiture''
#:: leave by car
# [[as]]
#: ''Il me traite '''en''' ami.''
#:: He treats me as a friend.
# [[at]] {{gloss|used to describe an ability}}
#: ''fort '''en''' histoire''
#:: good at history
# [[of]], made of {{gloss|used to describe composition}}
#: ''une chaise '''en''' hêtre''
#:: a chair made of beech/a beech chair
#: ''une fourchette '''en''' métal''
#:: a fork made of metal/a metal fork
# [[in]] {{gloss|during the following time (used for months and years)}}
#: '''''en''' 1993''
#:: in 1993
#: '''''en''' janvier''
#:: in January
#: '''''en''' septembre 2001''
#:: in September 2001
# {{context|as a [[gerund]], followed by a [[present participle]]}} [[while]]
#: ''C'est '''en''' trichant qu'il est devenu champion.''
#:: It was by cheating that he became champion.
# {{context|as a [[gerund]], followed by a [[present participle]]}} [[by]], [[in]] {{gloss|describing a way of getting something}}
# [[in]] {{gloss|used to describe color}}
#: ''une photo '''en''' noir et blanc''
#:: a photo in black and white
# [[in]] {{gloss|used to describe feelings}}
#: '''''en''' détresse''
#:: in distress
#: '''''en''' bonne humeur''
#:: in a good mood

====Usage notes====
* ''En'' in the sense of ''while'' is often not translated into English.

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|N.-É.}}, {{l|fr|NE}}, {{l|fr|NÉ}}, {{l|fr|ne}}, {{l|fr|né}}

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|in|lang=la}}.

===Preposition===
{{head|gl|preposition}}

# [[in]]

====Usage notes====
The preposition ''en'' contracts to ''n-'' before articles, before third-person tonic pronouns, and before the determiners {{term|algún|lang=gl}} and {{term|outro|lang=gl}}.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|gl|na}}, {{l|gl|nas}}, {{l|gl|no}}, {{l|gl|nos}}
* {{l|gl|nalgún}}, {{l|gl|nalgunha}}, {{l|gl|nalgunhas}}, {{l|gl|nalgúns}}
* {{l|gl|nel}}, {{l|gl|nela}}, {{l|gl|nelas}}, {{l|gl|neles}}
* {{l|gl|noutra}}, {{l|gl|noutras}}, {{l|gl|noutro}}, {{l|gl|noutros}}
* {{l|gl|nun}}, {{l|gl|nunha}}, {{l|gl|nunhas}}, {{l|gl|nuns}}

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|ht}} {{term|un||one|lang=fr}}, from {{etyl|la|ht}} {{term|unus|ūnus|one|lang=la}}.

===Cardinal number===
{{head|ht|cardinal number}}

# [[one]]

====Synonyms====
* [[youn]]

===See also===
* [[zewo]] 0
* [[de]] 2
* [[twa]] 3
* [[kat]] 4
* [[senk]] 5
* [[sis]] 6
* [[sèt]] 7
* [[uit]] 8
* [[nèf]] 9
* [[dis]] 10
* [[san]] 100

----

==Icelandic==

===Adverb===
{{head|is|adverb}}

# [[how]]
#: ''Nei, Elín? '''En''' [[gaman að sjá þig]]!
#:: Elín? '''How''' good to see you!

===Conjunction===
{{head|is|conjunction}}

# [[but]]
#: ''[[bjóða|Bjóðum]] [[Anna|Önnu]] '''en''' ekki [[Björk]].''
#:: [[let's|Let's]] [[invite]] Anna '''but''' [[not]] Björk.
#: ''Ég ætla að [[fá]] [[brauð]] '''en''' ekki mjólk.''
#:: I'll have bread '''but''' not [[milk]].
# [[than]] (with an adjective in the [[comparative]])
#: ''Ég er [[betri]] '''en''' bróðir minn.''
#:: I'm [[better]] '''than''' my brother.

====Derived terms====
* [[áður en]]
* [[nær dauða en lífi]]
* [[heldur en]]
* [[betri er krókur en kelda]]
* [[betur sjá augu en auga]]
* [[sveltur sitjandi kráka en fljúgandi fær]]

====Usage notes====
* Sometimes Icelandic uses ''en'' where English would use [[and]]:
*: ''Jón var sonur hans, '''en''' Ása dóttir''
*:: John was his son, and Ása his daughter
*:"''Veðrið var ekki gott [[framan af]]: rigning á fjallinu, en þoka í byggð.''"
*: ''Rannsókn embættis sérstaks saksóknara á meintum innherjasvikum Baldurs Guðlaugssonar stóð yfir í rúmlega ár, en FME kærði málið með bréfi til embættisins hinn 9. júlí á síðasta ári.''<ref>http://www.visir.is/baldur-akaerdur-fyrir-innherjasvik-og-brot-i-opinberu-starfi-/article/2010914009530&sp=1</ref>

* In the sentence
*: ''Hún er skemmtilegri '''en''' ég.''
*:: She is more fun '''than''' I am.
: the word {{term|en||than|lang=is}} may be omitted, and the [[subject]] (which is {{term|ég||I|lang=is}} in this example) may be used in the [[dative case]].
:: Hún er skemmtilegri mér.''
: Now the sentence has the same meaning, only much more formal. In order to make the sentence more casual- one can reposition the subject (in the dative).
:: ''Hún er mér skemmtilegri.''

===References===
<references/>

----

==Ido==

===Preposition===
{{head|io|preposition}}

# [[in]]

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=えん}}

# {{ja-def|円}} [[circle]] or [[yen]]
# {{ja-def|縁}} [[brim]] or [[fate]]
# {{ja-def|塩}} [[salt]] (chemical)
# {{ja-def|園}} [[garden]]

----

==Kott==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Yeniseian|ʔäń|lang=zko}} ''(˜x-)'' ("wave").

===Noun===
{{head|zko|noun}} ''(plural'' '''[[ēnaŋ]]''''')''

# [[wave]]

===Noun===
{{head|zko|noun}}

# Plural form of '''[[ei#Kott|ei]]'''. ''(pine trees)''

----

==Latin==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/en/|lang=la}}, {{X-SAMPA|/en/|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{head|la|noun|head=en|{{l|en|indeclinable}}}}

# {{non-gloss definition|The name of the letter ''{{l|la|N}}''.}}

====Usage notes====
* Multiple Latin names for the letter {{term||N}}, {{term||n}} have been suggested. The most common is {{term||en}} or a {{l|en|syllabic}} {{term||n}}, although there is some evidence which also supports, as names for the letter, {{term||nē}}, {{term||ən}}, {{term||nə}}, and even (in the fourth- or fifth-century first Antinoë papyrus, which gives Greek transliterations of the Latin names of the Roman alphabet’s letters) {{polytonic|ιννε}}.

====Coordinate terms====
* {{Latin letter names of the Roman alphabet}}

===References===
* Arthur E. Gordon, ''The Letter Names of the Latin Alphabet'' ([[w:University of California Press|University of California Press]], 1973; volume 9 of ''University of California Publications: Classical Studies''), esp. pages 30–31, 42–44, and 63

[[Category:la:Letter names of the Roman alphabet]]

----

==Low German==

===Etymology===
Cognate to {{etyl|de|-}} [[ein]], {{etyl|en|-}} [[an]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɛɪ̯n/|lang=nds}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|in other dialects, including Low Prussian}} {{l|nds|een}}
* {{qualifier|in some dialects}} {{l|nds|ein}}
* {{qualifier|{{pdt}}}} [[een]], {{qualifier|cardinal number}} [[eent]]

===Article===
{{head|nds|article|indefinite article|g=m}}
# {{context|in some dialects|lang=nds}} [[a]], [[an]]

===Article===
{{head|nds|article|indefinite article|g=n}}
# {{context|in some dialects|lang=nds}} [[a]], [[an]]

===Cardinal number===
{{head|nds|cardinal number}}
# {{context|in some dialects, including|_|Low Prussian|lang=nds}} [[one]] (1)

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Article===
'''en''' {{m|n}}

# Indefinite article; [[a]], [[an]]
#: ''Ech droen '''en''' Hutt wann et reent.''
#:: I wear '''a''' hat when it rains.
#: ''Hues du '''e''' bloe Stëft?''
#:: Do you have '''a''' blue pen?

====Declension====
{{lb-decl-indefinite article}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|lb|personal pronoun}}

# ''third-person masculine singular, accusative'': [[him]]
#: ''Hues du '''e''' gefrot?''
#:: Have you asked '''him'''?
# {{form of|unstressed form|hien|lang=lb}}
# {{form of|unstressed form|hinnen|lang=lb}}

====Declension====
{{lb-decl-personal pronouns}}

===Usage notes===
* Due to the [[w:Eifeler Regel|Eifel Rule]], the final -n is lost when the following word begins with a consonant other than <d>, <h>, <n>, <t> or <z>. 

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
'''en'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|ēn|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|én|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|ěn|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|èn|lang=cmn}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Conjunction===
{{head|dum|conjunction}}

# {{alternative form of|ende|lang=dum}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|nb}} {{term|einn|lang=non}}.

===Article===
{{head|nb|article|g=m|feminine|ei|neuter|et}}

# [[a]], [[an]] (indefinite article)

===Cardinal number===
{{head|nb|cardinal number|g=m|feminine|ei|neuter|ett}}

# [[one]]

----

==Old French==

===Preposition===
{{head|fro|preposition}}

# [[in]]; [[inside]]
# [[on]]; [[upon]]
#* {{quote-book|year=12<sup>th</sup> Century|title=[[s:fr:Raoul de Cambrai/Raoul de Cambrai|Raoul de Cambrai]]|author=Unknown|passage=qi '''en''' la crois fu mis|translation=[He] who was put on the cross}}

====Descendants====
* French: {{l|fr|en}}

----

==Old Frisian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Germanic|ainaz|lang=ofs}}.

===Cardinal number===
{{head|ofs|cardinal number|head=ēn}}

# [[one]]

====Descendants====
* West Frisian: {{l|fy|ien}}

----

==Old Saxon==
{{cardinalbox|osx|0|1|2||twene|}}

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Germanic|ainaz|lang=osx}}.

===Cardinal number===
{{head|osx|cardinal numeral|head=ēn}}

# [[one]]

===Article===
{{head|osx|article|head=ēn}}

# [[a]], [[an]] (indefinite article)

====Declension====
{{osx-pronindef|head=ēn|ēn|ēn|ēn|ēnan|ēn|ēna|ēnas|ēnas|ēnaro|ēnumu|ēnumu|ēnaro}}

----

==Old Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|gmq-osw}} {{term|einn|lang=non}}.

===Cardinal numeral===
{{head|gmq-osw|cardinal numeral|head=ēn|g={{m|f}}}}

# [[one]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|in|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[en]|lang=es}} {{X-SAMPA|/en/|lang=es}}

===Preposition===
{{head|es|preposition}}

# [[in]], [[at]], [[on]]
#: ''Estoy en casa'' - I am at home
#: ''en esta página'' - on this page
# in (''a time'')
#: ''en la antigüedad'' - in antiquity
#: ''en 1999'' - in 1999
# in (''a language'')
#: ''No conozco esta palabra en francés'' - I don't know this word in French
#: ''en todos los idiomas'' - in all languages
# (''used after some verbs and translated by various prepositions in English'')
#: ''Pienso en tí'' - I think of you.
# in (''used in various expressions'')
#: ''en el sentido'' - in the sense.
#: ''en nuestro afán'' - in our eagerness

----

==Sranan Tongo==

===Pronoun===
{{head|srn|pronoun}}

# [[he]]
# [[him]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|gmq-osw|sv}} {{term|han|lang=sv}}, accusative form of {{term|han|lang=sv}}, losing its initial h when unstressed. In standard Swedish the corresponding dative form {{term|honom|lang=sv}} (from Old Norse {{term|hánum|lang=non}}) instead has taken its place.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ɛn/|lang=sv}}

====Pronoun====
{{head|sv|pronoun}}

# [[one|One]] ''(personal: {{l|sv|man}}, possessive: {{l|sv|ens}})''
# {{context|dialectal|lang=sv|strongly colloquial}} [[him]]; ''accusative and dative of {{l|sv|han}}''
#: ''Jo, ja' gav'<b>en</b> brevet.''
#:: Yes, I gave him the letter.

=====Declension=====
{{sv-decl-ppron}}

=====Synonyms=====
* [[honom]]

=====Usage notes=====
Dialect sense rarely found in written form unless supposed to imitate (dialectal) speech.

=====See also=====
* {{l|sv|an}}
* {{l|sv|han}}
* {{l|sv|na}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|einn|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|ainaz|lang=sv}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/eːn/|/ɛn/|lang=sv}}

====Cardinal number====
{{head|sv|cardinal number|neuter|ett}}

# {{cardinal|lang=sv}} [[one]]

====Article====
{{head|sv|article|g=c|neuter|ett}}

# ''the indefinite article'': [[a]], [[an]].

===Etymology 3===
From earlier {{term|ene|lang=sv}} (sometimes also {{term|ener|lang=sv}}), from {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|einir|lang=non}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/eːn/|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[juniper]]

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

{{-}}

===References===
* {{R:runeberg.org|svetym|0311.html han}}

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} {{term|en|lang=otk}}, from {{proto|Turkic|ēn|breadth, width|lang=tr}}.

====Noun====
{{head|tr|noun}}

# [[width]]
# a [[cachet]] on an animal or bonded goods

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} {{term|eŋ|lang=otk}}, from {{proto|Turkic|lang=tr}}.

====Adverb====
{{head|tr|adverb}}

# An adverb which makes the adjective after it superlative. Examples: [[büyük]]: [[big]]; en büyük: the biggest

----

==West Frisian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛn/|lang=fy}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|fy|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

[[af:en]]
[[ar:en]]
[[ast:en]]
[[br:en]]
[[ca:en]]
[[cs:en]]
[[da:en]]
[[de:en]]
[[et:en]]
[[el:en]]
[[es:en]]
[[eo:en]]
[[eu:en]]
[[fo:en]]
[[fr:en]]
[[ga:en]]
[[gl:en]]
[[ko:en]]
[[hy:en]]
[[hr:en]]
[[io:en]]
[[id:en]]
[[is:en]]
[[it:en]]
[[kl:en]]
[[csb:en]]
[[ku:en]]
[[ky:en]]
[[la:en]]
[[lb:en]]
[[lt:en]]
[[li:en]]
[[hu:en]]
[[mg:en]]
[[nah:en]]
[[fj:en]]
[[nl:en]]
[[ja:en]]
[[no:en]]
[[oc:en]]
[[pl:en]]
[[pt:en]]
[[ro:en]]
[[ru:en]]
[[sq:en]]
[[sk:en]]
[[sl:en]]
[[fi:en]]
[[sv:en]]
[[tt:en]]
[[tr:en]]
[[uk:en]]
[[vi:en]]
[[zh:en]]