==English==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|enatus|tr=ēnātus|lang=la}} (from {{term|enascor|ēnāscor|spring forth|lang=la}}) + {{etyl|en|-}} {{suffix||ion}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{botany}} A small [[outgrowth]] on the surface of a [[plant]] organ.
#* '''1977''', Robert G. Milne, Osvaldo Lovisolo, ''Maize Rough Dwarf and Related Viruses'', in Karl Maramonosch, Max A Lauffer (editors), ''Advances in Virus Research'', Volume 21, [http://books.google.com/books?id=5xdZOIdXwBYC&pg=PA282&dq=%22enations%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=jgh4Ts2kJ475mAXrzbHSDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=%22enations%22%20-intitle%3Ahonestly&f=false page 282],
#*: In field infections, the '''enations''' are very small and appear as gray streaks on the backs of the leaves. However, conspicuous '''enations''' appear on plants inoculated and reared in the glasshouse (Lindsten, 1961a; Catherall, 1970).
#* '''1993''', Wilson Nichols Stewart, Gar W. Rothwell, ''Paleobotany and the Evolution of Plants'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=Fhm-oed74JgC&pg=PA113&dq=%22enations%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=jgh4Ts2kJ475mAXrzbHSDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22enations%22%20-intitle%3Ahonestly&f=false page 113],
#*: Irrespective of how the terminal position of sporangia on short lateral branches evolved, we should keep in mind that it was an important step in positioning the developing sporangia so that they could be protected by '''enations''' and microphylls.
#* '''1996''', M. Diekmann, C. A. J. Putter, ''Stone Fruits'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=LKGtLl2HBXoC&pg=PA20&dq=%22enations%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=fC54TueAPabmmAWdvdXlDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAzgU#v=onepage&q=%22enations%22%20-intitle%3Ahonestly&f=false page 20],
#*: Infected trees are stunted, with narrow leaves, often with large '''enations''' on their underside.
# {{botany|uncountable}} The generation of such an [[outgrowth]].
#* '''1965''', Albert Julius Winkler, ''General Viticulture'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=jkMNAQAAMAAJ&q=%22enation%22+-intitle:honestly&dq=%22enation%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=szd4TsqEJM-OiAe6h9zpDA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAjge page 416],
#*: '''Enation''' is characterized by the formation of very small, leaflike outgrowths — enations — from the lower surface of leaves, usually along the larger veins (fig. 116).
#* '''1991''', Chester N. Roistacher, ''Graft-Transmissible Diseases of Citrus: Handbook for Detection and Diagnosis'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=9zY1uFGchAgC&pg=PA145&dq=%22enation%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=Mj54TuqiG4GaiQfsganEDA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBjgy#v=onepage&q=%22enation%22%20-intitle%3Ahonestly&f=false page 145],
#*: Wallace and Drake (1960, 1961) reported that the woody-gall problem found in Peru, South Africa and Australia was related to vein '''enation'''.
#* '''2011''', Linda Gilkeson, ''Backyard Bounty: The Complete Guide to Year-Round Organic Gardening in the Pacific Northwest'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=xSOTCeV_m4gC&pg=PA244&dq=%22enation%22+-intitle:honestly&hl=en&ei=3z94ToW_KeuciAfYhKHFDA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCsQ6AEwADg8#v=onepage&q=%22enation%22%20-intitle%3Ahonestly&f=false page 244],
#*: Choose varieties resistant to the pea '''enation''' virus for summer crops.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|small outgrowth on a plant}} [[gall]]

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Antoine#English|Antoine]]
* [[Etonian#English|Etonian]]

[[et:enation]]
[[id:enation]]
[[ta:enation]]
[[vi:enation]]