==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|inforce}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|enforcier}}, from {{etyl|LL.|en}} {{m|la|infortiāre}}, from {{m|la|in-}} + {{m|la|fortis||strong}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈfɔːs/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(ɹ)s|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|enforc}}

# To keep up or bring into effect something, not necessarily by [[force]]; to impose the [[obeisance]] to and order, rule or law {{defdate|from 17<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#: ''The police are there to '''enforce''' the law.''
#* '''1929''', {{w|Chiang Kai-shek}}, quoted in “Nationalist Notes,” ''{{w|Time (magazine)|Time}}'', 11 February, 1929,<sup>[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,737333,00.html]</sup>
#*: Our task is only half finished. It will be my duty to '''enforce''' the decisions of the conference and I hereby pledge myself to that end.
#* '''2013''', “The pulpit should be free of politics,” ''{{w|Los Angeles Times}}'', 8 September, 2013,<sup>[http://articles.latimes.com/2013/sep/08/opinion/la-ed-irs-church-political-campaign-johnson-amendm-20130908]</sup>
#*: Far from needing to be repealed, the ban on politics in the pulpit ought to be '''enforced''' more aggressively.
# To give strength or force to; to [[affirm]], to [[emphasize]]. {{defdate|from 15<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#: ''The victim was able to '''enforce''' his evidence against the alleged perpetrator.''
# {{lb|en|obsolete|transitive}} To [[strengthen]] (a castle, town etc.) with extra troops, fortifications etc. {{defdate|14<sup>th</sup>-18<sup>th</sup>c.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete|transitive}} To [[intensify]], make stronger, add force to. {{defdate|14<sup>th</sup>-18<sup>th</sup>c.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete|reflexive}} To [[exert]] oneself, to try hard. {{defdate|14<sup>th</sup>-17<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtArthr1}}, Bk.VII:
#*: I pray you '''enforce''' youreselff at that justis that ye may be beste, for my love.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[compel]], [[oblige]] (someone or something); to [[force]]. {{defdate|from 16<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#* '''1594''', {{w|Christopher Marlowe}}, ''{{w|Edward II (play)|Edward II}}'', London: William Jones,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A07018.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Sweete prince I come, these these thy amorous lines,
#*: Might haue '''enforst''' me to haue swum from France,
#*: And like ''Leander'' gaspt vpon the sande,
#*: So thou wouldst smile and take me in thy armes.
#* {{RQ:RBrtn AntmyMlncly}}, I.2.4.iv:
#*: Uladislaus the Second, King of Poland, and Peter Dunnius, Earl of Shrine{{...}}had been hunting late, and were '''enforced''' to lodge in a poor cottage.
#* '''1899''', E. OE. Somerville and Martin Ross, ''Some Experiences of an Irish R.M.'', Great Uncle McCarthy'':
#*: In a few minutes I was stealthily groping my way down my own staircase, with a box of matches in my hand, '''enforced''' by scientific curiosity, but none the less armed with a stick.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To make or gain by force; to [[force]].
#: ''to '''enforce''' a passage''
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}}'', London: William Ponsonbie, Book 1, Canto 8, p. 106,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A12777.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Ne shame he thought to shonne so hideous might,
#*: The ydle stroke, '''enforcing''' furious way,
#*: Missing the marke of his misaymed sight
#*: Did fall to ground {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To put in motion or action by violence; to drive.
#* c. '''1589''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry V (play)|Henry V}}'', Act IV, Scene 7,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry5&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: If they’ll do neither, we will come to them,
#*: And make them skirr away, as swift as stones
#*: '''Enforced''' from the old Assyrian slings:
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To give force to; to strengthen; to invigorate; to urge with energy.
#: ''to '''enforce''' arguments or requests''
#* '''1796''', {{w|Edmund Burke}}, ''Two Letters Addressed to a Member of the Present Parliament: on the Proposals for Peace with the Regicide Directory of France'', London: F. & C. Rivington, Letter I, p. 60,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004904033.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the eloquence of the declaration, not contradicting, but '''enforcing''' sentiments of the truest humanity, has left stings that have penetrated more than skin-deep into my mind {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To urge; to ply hard; to lay much stress upon.
#* c. '''1607''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Coriolanus}}'', Act III, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=coriolanus&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: In this point charge him home, that he affects
#*: Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
#*: '''Enforce''' him with his envy to the people,
#*: And that the spoil got on the Antiates
#*: Was ne’er distributed.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[prove]]; to [[evince]].
#* '''1604''', {{w|Richard Hooker}}, ''Of the Lawes of Ecclesiasticall Politie'', London, Preface, p. 9,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A03590.0001.001]</sup>
#*: But what argument are ye able to shew, whereby it was euer prooued by Caluin, that any one sentence of Scripture doth necessarily '''enforce''' these things, or the rest wherein your opinion concurreth with his against the orders of your owne Church?

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|enforcer}}
* {{l|en|enforcement}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to strengthen}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|укрепявам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|posílit|pf}}, {{t|cs|posilovat|impf}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|versterken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vahvistaa}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|întări}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to intensify}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|zesílit|pf}}, {{t|cs|zesilovat|impf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vahvistaa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to exert}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vynutit|pf}}, {{t|cs|vynucovat|impf}}
* German: {{t+|de|durchsetzen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|obliga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to affirm}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|настоявам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|potvrdit|pf}}, {{t|cs|potvrzovat|impf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vahvistaa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to compel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|принуждавам|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|přinutit|pf}}, {{t|cs|přinucovat|impf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to keep up}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|налагам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|實施|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|執行|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|prosazovat}}, {{t|cs|vynucovat}}, {{t+|cs|udržovat|impf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handhaven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valvoa}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|აღსრულება}}, {{t|ka|აღასრულებს}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[durchsetzen]] (1), [[bekräftigen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|imponer}} (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|forcené}}