{{was wotd|2010|February|25}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[engendre]] {{defdate|14th-16th c.}}, [[ingender]] {{defdate|15th-17th c.}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈdʒɛn.də/|/ɛnˈdʒɛn.də/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ɛnˈdʒɛn.dɚ/|/ɪnˈdʒɛn.dɚ/}}
* {{rhymes|ɛndə(ɹ)}}
{{rfap|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|engendrer|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|ingenerare|ingenerāre|lang=la}}, from {{term|in-|lang=la}} + {{term|generare|generāre|to generate|lang=la}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|obsolete|transitive|lang=en}} To [[beget]] (of a man); to [[bear]] or [[conceive]] (of a woman). {{defdate|14th-19th c.}}
#* '''1599''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Julius Caesar'', Act V:
#*: O Error soone conceyu'd, / Thou neuer com'st vnto a happy byrth, / But kil'st the Mother that '''engendred''' thee.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To give existence to, to [[produce]] (living creatures). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1891''', {{w|Henry James}}, "James Russell Lowell", ''Essays in London and Elsewhere'', p. 60:
#*: Like all interesting literary figures, he is full of tacit as well as of uttered reference to the conditions that '''engendered''' him [...].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To bring into [[existence]] (a situation, quality, result etc.); to give rise to, [[cause]], [[create]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''1603''', {{w|John Florio}}, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', II.11:
#*: Me thinks vertue is another manner of thing, and much more noble than the inclinations unto goodnesse, which in us are '''ingendered'''.
#* '''1928''', "New Plays in Manhattan", ''Time'', 8 Oct 1928:
#*: Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart managed to '''engender''' " Better Be Good to Me " and " I Must Love You, " but they were neither lyrically nor musically up to standards of their Garrick Gaieties or A Connecticut Yankee.
#* '''2009''', Jonathan Glancey, "The art of industry", ''The Guardian'', 21 Dec 09:
#*: Manufacturing is not simply about brute or emergency economics. It's also about a sense of involvement and achievement '''engendered''' by shaping and crafting useful, interesting, well-designed things.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To assume form; to come into existence; to be caused or produced.
#* Dryden
#*: Thick clouds are spread, and storms '''engender''' there.
# {{context|obsolete|intransitive|lang=en}} To [[copulate]], to [[have sex]]. {{defdate|15th-19th c.}}
#* '''1651''', {{w|Thomas Hobbes}}, ''Leviathan'':
#*: But that the bodies of the reprobate, who make the kingdom of Satan, shall also be glorious or spiritual bodies, or that they shall be as the angels of God, neither eating, drinking, nor '''engendering''' [...], there is no place of Scripture to prove it [...].
#* '''1667''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''Paradise Lost'', Book II:
#*: I fled, but he pursu'd (though more, it seems, / Inflam'd with lust then rage) and swifter far, / Me overtook his mother all dismaid, / And in embraces forcible and foule / '''Ingendring''' with me, of that rape begot / These yelling Monsters [...].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to bring into existence}} [[beget]], [[conjure]], [[create]], [[produce]], [[make]], [[craft]], [[manufacture]], [[invent]], [[assemble]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bring into existence, cause}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|krijoj}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հարուցել|tr=haruc’el}}, {{t-|hy|առաջացնել|tr=aṙaǰac’nel}}, {{t-|hy|ծնել|tr=çnel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пораждам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|voortbrengen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|synnyttää}}, {{t+|fi|luoda}}, {{t+|fi|aiheuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|saada aikaan}}, {{t+|fi|tuottaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|engendrer}}, {{t+|fr|concevoir}}, {{t-|fr|donner le jour à}}, {{t+|fr|donner naissance à}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|erzeugen}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|generare}}, {{t+|it|originare}}, {{t-|it|concepire}}
* Quechua: {{t-|qu|churiyay}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|порождать}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|engendrar}}, {{t-|es|dar a luz}}, {{t-|es|concebir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|cs}}: {{t-|cs|plodit}}, {{t-|cs|zplodit}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: {{t-|nl|voortbrengen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[sebab|menyebabkan]], [[akibat|mengakibatkan]], [[timbul|menimbulkan]], [[bawa|membawa]]
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[引き起こす]] (hikiokosu), [[発生させる]] (hassei saseru)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Anagrams====
* [[regenned#English|regenned]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{prefix|en|gender}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|critical theory|lang=en}} To endow with [[gender]]; to create [[gender]] or enhance the importance of gender. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''1992''', Anne Cranny-Francis, ''Engendered Fictions'', p. 2:
#*: As such they are an important way of understanding both how texts are '''engendered''' (how they articulate particular sex or gender role) and how they '''engender''' their consumers.
#* '''1996''', Steven C Ward, ''Reconfiguring Truth'', p. xviii:
#*: I focus on [...] the efforts of feminist critics of science to examine the '''engendered''' origins and implications of scientific rationality and modern epistemology.

[[et:engender]]
[[el:engender]]
[[fa:engender]]
[[fr:engender]]
[[ko:engender]]
[[io:engender]]
[[kn:engender]]
[[hu:engender]]
[[mg:engender]]
[[ml:engender]]
[[my:engender]]
[[pl:engender]]
[[sv:engender]]
[[te:engender]]
[[vi:engender]]
[[zh:engender]]