==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|Engelond}}, from {{inh|en|ang|Engla land|lit=land of the [[Angle]]s}}, from genitive of {{m|ang|Engle||the Angles}} + {{m|ang|land||land}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈɪŋɡlənd/|/ˈɪŋɡələnd/|qual2=non-standard}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/ˈɪŋɡlənd/|/ˈɪŋlənd/|qual2=also}}
* {{audio|en|en-uk-England.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-England.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|en|Eng|land}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|-|s}}

# {{senseid|en|Q21}} The [[kingdom]] [[establish]]ed in [[southeast]] [[Britain]] by {{w|Æthelstan|Aethelstan}} of {{w|House of Wessex|Wessex}} in 927 and its [[various]] [[successor]] [[state]]s, [[now]] the [[largest]] and [[most]] [[populous]] of the [[constituent countries]] of the [[United Kingdom]]; {{lb|en|by extension|sometimes|proscribed}} the [[area]] of [[this]] [[kingdom]] [[generally]], [[south]] of [[Scotland]] and [[east]] of [[Wales]], [[including]] {{lb|en|historical}} [[this]] [[area]] of {{w|Celtic Britain|Celtic}} and {{w|Roman Britain}} or the [[post-]][[Roman]] [[kingdom]]s of the [[Angles]] and [[other]] [[German]]s [[taken]] [[collectively]].
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Richard 2|II|i|text=''Gaunt'' ...This [[royal]]l throne of Kings, this [[scepter|sceptred]] [[isle|Ile]],<br>This earth of [[majesty|maiesty]], this [[seat]]e of Mars,<br>This other Eden, [[demi|demy]] [[paradise|Paradice]],<br>This [[fortress]]e built by Nature for [[herself|her selfe]],<br>Against infection and the hand of [[war]]re,<br>This happy [[breed]]e of men, this little world,<br>This precious stone set in the [[silver|siluer]] sea,<br>Which [[serves|serues]] it in the office of a wall,<br>Or as [[moat]]e [[defensive|defensiue]] to a house,<br>Against the [[envy|enuie]] of [[less]]e happier lands.<br>This blessed plot, this earth, this [[realm]]e, this '''England'''...<br>Is now [[leased|leasde]] out...<br>That '''England''' that was wont to conquer others,<br>Hath made a [[shameful]]l conquest<br>of [[itself|it selfe]]...}}
#* '''1804''', {{w|William Blake}}, ''{{w|Milton: A Poem in Two Books|Milton}}'', Vol. I, Preface: 
#*: {{w|And did those feet in ancient time}}<br>Walk upon '''England'''’s mountains green?<br>And was the holy [[Lamb of God]]<br>On '''England'''’s pleasant pastures seen?...<br>I will not cease from Mental Fight,<br>Nor shall my Sword sleep in my hand,<br>Till we have built [[New Jerusalem|Jerusalem]]<br>In '''England'''’s green & pleasant Land.
#* '''1864''', Amédée Baillot translating {{w|Victor Hugo}} as ''William Shakespeare'', Ch. 6:
#*: What is '''England'''? She is {{w|Elizabeth I of England|Elizabeth}}... To live alone, to go alone, to reign alone, to be alone,—such is Elizabeth, such is '''England'''...<br>'''England''' has two books: one which she has made, the other which has made her,—{{w|William Shakespeare|Shakespeare}} and the [[Bible]]. These two books do not agree together... Shakespeare thinks, Shakespeare dreams, Shakespeare doubts... Moreover, Shakespeare invents.
#* '''1941''', {{w|George Orwell}}, ''{{w|The Lion and the Unicorn: Socialism and the English Genius|The Lion and the Unicorn}}'', Pt. I:
#*: '''England''' is not the jewelled isle of {{w|William Shakespeare|Shakespeare}}'s much-quoted passage, nor is it the inferno depicted by {{w|Goebbels|Dr Goebbels}}. More than either it resembles a family, a rather stuffy {{w|Victorian Era|Victorian}} family, with not many [[black sheep]] but with all its cupboards bursting with skeletons. It has rich relations who have to be [[kow-tow]]ed to and poor relations who are horribly sat upon, and there is a deep conspiracy of silence about the source of the family income.
#* '''1983''', {{w|William S. Burroughs}}, ''{{w|The Place of Dead Roads}}'', [https://books.google.nl/books?id=g74cBAAAQBAJ&pg=PT203 pg. 203]: 
#*: '''England''' is like some stricken beast too stupid to know it is dead. Ingloriously foundering in its own waste products, the backlash and bad karma of empire.
#* '''2012''', {{w|Maureen Johnson}}, ''The Madness Underneath'': 
#*: "This is '''England'''," he explained. "Tell someone it's a procedure, and they'll believe you. The pointless procedure is one of our great natural resources."
#* '''2013 March 25''', {{w|David Sedaris}}, "[https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2013/04/01/long-way-home Long Way Home]" in ''{{w|The New Yorker}}'': 
#*: Had they responded this way in France or America, this wouldn't have surprised me, but wasn't everyone in '''England''' supposed to be a detective? Wasn't every crime, no matter how complex, solved in a timely fashion by either a professional or a hobbyist? That's the impression you get from British books and TV shows.
#: {{ux|en|[[close one's eyes and think of England|Just close your eyes and think of '''England'''.]]}}
# {{lb|en|chiefly|_|law|historical|_|or|_|obsolete}} {{synonym of|en|England and Wales}}.
# {{senseid|en|Q145}}{{lb|en|proscribed|sometimes|offensive}} {{synonym of|en|United Kingdom}}.
# {{surname|en|habitational|from=Old English}}
# {{lb|en|United States}} {{place|en|city|co/Lonoke County|s/Arkansas|c/United States}}.

====Usage notes====
As England has always constituted the most populous and important of the kingdoms comprising the United Kingdom, it has historically been used [[metonymously]] for the UK as a whole in English and (in translation) other languages as well. This usage is now considered uninformed or insulting, particularly to subjects of the other parts of the UK. The 1746 {{w|Wales and Berwick Act 1746|Wales & Berwick Act}} formalized the previous informal understanding that laws referencing the Kingdom of England alone also applied to the Principality of Wales; this continued to be the case until the 1967 {{w|Welsh Language Act 1967|Welsh Language Act}} required that any similarly general laws afterwards must specify England and Wales separately.

====Synonyms====
* ''See'' [[Thesaurus:England]]

====Derived terms====
{{der3|en
|for England
|Church of England
|Englander
|Little Englander
|New England
|think of England
|Middle England
|Middle Englander
|North East England
|England and Wales
|close one's eyes and think of England
|lie back and think of England
|Kingdom of England
|Northern England English
|Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland
}}

====Related terms====
{{rel3|en
|Anglican
|[[anglicise]], [[anglicize]]
|Anglo-
|English
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|id=Q21|Kingdom in southeastern Britain, now part of the UK}}
* Adyghe: {{t|ady|Ынджылыз}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|Engeland}}
* Akan: {{t|ak|Ngyiresi}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|Angli|f}}
* Amharic: {{t|am|ኢንግላንድ}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|إِنْجِلْتِرَا|f|tr=ʾingilterā}}, {{t|ar|إِنْقِلْتِرَا|f|tr=ʾingilterā}}, {{t|ar|إِنْكِلْتِرَا|f|tr=ʾingilterā}}, {{t|ar|إِنْكِلْتِرَة|f|tr=ʾingiltera}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|انجلترا|f|tr=engeltera}}
*: Hijazi Arabic: {{t|acw|إنْقِلْتْرا|f|tr=ingiltra}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|النݣليز|f}}
*: Najdi Arabic: {{t|ars|إنْقِلْتْرا|f|tr=ingiltra}}
*: Tunisian Arabic: {{t|aeb|أنقلترا|f|tr=angiltra}}
* Aragonese: {{t-check|an|Anglaterra}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|Անգլիա}}
* Assyrian Neo-Aramaic: {{t|aii|ܐܵܢܓܠܝܵܐ|tr=Anglia|f}}
* Asturian: {{t+|ast|Inglaterra|f}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|İngiltərə}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|Англия}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|Ingalaterra}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|А́нглія|f}}, {{t|be|Анге́льшчына|f}} {{qualifier|Taraškievica}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|ইংল্যান্ড}}, {{t|bn|বিলাত}}, {{t|bn|ইংলিস্তান}}
* Brahui: {{t|brh|Inglistán}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|Bro-Saoz}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|А́нглия|f}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|အင်္ဂလန်}}, {{t+|my|ဘိလပ်}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Anglaterra|f}}
* Chechen: {{t|ce|Англи}}, {{t|ce|Ингалс}}
* Chichewa: {{t|ny|Mangalande}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|英格蘭}}, {{t+|yue|英格兰|tr=jing1 gaak3 laan4}}, {{t|yue|英國}}, {{t|yue|英国|tr=jing1 gwok3}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|英格蘭}}, {{t+|cmn|英格兰|tr=Yīnggélán}}, {{t+|cmn|英國}}, {{t+|cmn|英国|tr=Yīngguó}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|Pow Sows|m}}
* Corsican: {{t|co|Inghilterra|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Anglie|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|England}}
* Dhivehi: {{t|dv|އިނގިރޭސިވިލާތް}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Engeland|n}}
* Dzongkha: {{t|dz|དབྱིན་ཡུལ}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Anglio}}, {{t|eo|Anglujo}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Inglismaa}}
* Farefare: {{t|gur|Aŋlagɔ}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|Ongland|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Englanti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Angleterre|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|Inglaterra|f}}
* Georgian: {{t+|ka|ინგლისი}}
* German: {{t+|de|England|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Αγγλία|f}}
* Gujarati: {{t|gu|ઇંગ્લેન્ડ}}
* Hausa: {{t|ha|Ingila}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|ʻEnelani}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אַנְגְּלִיָּה|f|tr=ángliya}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|इंग्लैंड|m}}, {{t+|hi|आंग्लदेश|m}}, {{t+|hi|इंगलिस्तान|m}}, {{t+|hi|विलायत|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Anglia}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|England}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|Anglia}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|Inggris}}
* Interlingua: {{t+|ia|Anglaterra}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|Sasana|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Inghilterra|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|イングランド|tr=Ingurando}}, {{t+|ja|イギリス|tr=Igirisu}} {{qualifier|now normally "UK"}}, {{t+|ja|英国|tr=えいこく, Eikoku}} {{qualifier|now normally "UK"}}
* Kannada: {{t|kn|ಇಂಗ್ಲೆಂಡ್}}
* Kashubian: {{t|csb|Anielskô}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|Англия}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|អង់គ្លេស}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|^잉글랜드}}, {{t+|ko|^영국(英國)}}
* Kurdish:
*: Northern Kurdish: {{t+|kmr|Înglistan}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|Англия}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ອັງກິດ}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|Anglia|f}}, {{t|la|Albion|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Anglija|f}}
* Ligurian: {{t|lij|Inghiltæra}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Anglija|f}}
* Livonian: {{t|liv|Engõlmō}}, {{t|liv|England}}
* Low German: {{t+|nds|England}}
* Lü: {{t|khb|ᦁᧂᦂᦲᧆ}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Англија|f}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|England}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|ഇംഗ്ലണ്ട്}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|l-[[Ingilterra]]|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Sostyn|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|Ingarangi}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|इंग्लंड}}
* Marshallese: {{t|mh|In̄len}}
* Mongolian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|mn|Англи}}
* Nepali: {{t|ne|इङ्गल्याण्ड}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|Angliétèrre|f}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}, {{t|nrf|Anglléterre|f}} {{qualifier|Guernsey}}, {{t|nrf|Aunglléterre|f}} {{qualifier|continental Normandy}}
* North Frisian: {{t|frr|Ängelönj}}
* Northern Sami: {{t|se|Englánda}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|England}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|England}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|Anglatèrra|f}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|Angelcynn|n}}
* Old Frisian: {{t|ofs|Angelond}}
* Old Saxon: {{t|osx|Engloland|n}}
* Ossetian: {{t|os|Англис}}
* Palauan: {{t|pau|Ingklis}}
* Pashto: {{t|ps|انګلستان|m|tr=englestãn}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|انگلستان|tr=engelestan}}
* Picard: {{t|pcd|Ingueltière|f}}, {{t|pcd|Ingletère|f}}, {{t|pcd|Ingueltère|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Anglia|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Inglaterra|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|Anglia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|А́нглия|f}}
* Rusyn: {{t|rue|А́нґлія|f}}
* Samoan: {{t|sm|'Egelani}}
* Sanskrit: {{t+|sa|श्वेतद्वीप|m}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|Inghilterra|f}}
* Saterland Frisian: {{t|stq|Änglound}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|Ingland}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|Sasainn|f}}, also {{t|gd|Sasann|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Ѐнгле̄ска̄|f}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|Ènglēskā|f}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|Nghilterra|f}}, {{t|scn|Nglaterra|f}}
* Silesian: {{t|szl|Yngland|m}}, {{t|szl|Anglijo|f}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|එංගලන්තය}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|Anglicko}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Ánglija|f}}
* Somali: {{t|so|Ingiriiska}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|Engelska|f}}
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|Engelska|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Inglaterra|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|Uingereza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|England}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|Inglatera}}
* Tajik: {{t+|tg|Англия}}, {{t|tg|Ингилистон}}, {{t|tg|Ангилтира}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|இங்கிலாந்து}}
* Tatar: {{t|tt|Англия}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|ఇంగ్లాండ్}}
* Tetum: {{t|tet|Inglatera}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|อังกฤษ}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|དབྱིན་ཡུལ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|İngiltere}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|Angliýa}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|А́нглія|f}}, {{t|uk|А́нґлія|f}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|انگلینڈ|m|tr=inglainḍ}}, {{t|ur|انگلستان|m|tr=inglistān}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|ئەنگلىيە}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|Angliya}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|Anh}}, {{t|vi|[[nước]] [[Anh]]}}, {{t|vi|Anh Cát Lợi}}, {{t+|vi|Anh Quốc}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|Lloegr|f}}
* West Frisian: {{t+|fy|Ingelân|n}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|ענגלאַנד|n}}
* Zhuang: {{t|za|Yinghgoz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|England, Arkansas}}
* {{pedia|England (surname)}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=adeglnn|endlang}}

[[Category:English autohyponyms]]
[[Category:English syncopic forms]]
[[Category:English words suffixed with -land]]
[[Category:en:Countries of the United Kingdom]]
[[Category:en:England]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|England}}

[[Category:da:Countries of the United Kingdom]]

----

==German==
{{wikipedia|lang=de}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/ˈɛŋlant/}}
* {{audio|de|De-England.ogg|audio}}

===Proper noun===
{{de-proper noun|toponym}}

# {{place|de|constituent country|c/United Kingdom|t=England}}
# {{lb|de|somewhat|informal}} {{place|de|island|r/Western Europe|t=Great Britain}}
# {{lb|de|somewhat|informal}} {{place|de|country|r/Western Europe|t=United Kingdom}}
# {{lb|de|informal|proscribed}} {{place|de|archipelago|r/Western Europe|including|c/Ireland|t=the [[British Isles]]}}

====Usage notes====
* In formal usage, ''England'' referring to Great Britain or the United Kingdom is now very rare.
* In common speech, ''England'' continues to be the most common word for the two respective entities ''as a whole''. It is, however, now uncommon to use ''England'' when referring specifically to a place or incident in Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland. In such a case, the respective word would normally be used ({{m|de|Schottland}}, {{m|de|Wales}}, {{m|de|Nordirland}}).
* The usage including the Republic of Ireland, which is sometimes heard, is conspicuously nonstandard.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|de|Engelland}} {{qualifier|archaic}}
* {{sense|Great Britain}} {{l|de|Großbritannien}}, {{l|de|GB}}
* {{sense|United Kingdom}} {{l|de|Vereinigtes Königreich}}, {{l|de|VK}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|de|Engländer}}
* {{l|de|engländisch}}
* {{l|de|Altengland}}
* {{l|de|Neuengland}}
* {{l|de|Nordengland}}
* {{l|de|Ostengland}}
* {{l|de|Südengland}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|de|Angelland}}
* {{l|de|englisch}}
** {{l|de|Englisch}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:DWDS}}

----

==Icelandic==
{{wikipedia|lang=is}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|is|non|Ęngland}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|is|/ˈeiŋ.lant/}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|is|proper noun|g=n}}

# {{l|en|England}}

====Declension====
{{is-decl-noun-n-s|Engl|a|nd|pl=-|def=-}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|is|Englendingur}}
* {{l|is|enskur}}
* {{l|is|Nýja-England}}

[[Category:is:Countries of the United Kingdom]]
[[Category:is:England]]

----

==Luxembourgish==
{{wikipedia|lang=lb}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lb|/ˈæŋˌlant/|[ˈæŋˌlɑnt]}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|lb|proper noun|g=n}}

# {{l|en|England}}

[[Category:lb:Countries of the United Kingdom]]

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==
{{wikipedia|lang=no}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|nb|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|England}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|nb|engelsk}}
* {{l|nb|engelskmann}}
* {{l|nb|englender}}

[[Category:nb:Countries of the United Kingdom]]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==
{{wikipedia|lang=nn}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sv|/ˈɛŋlɑn/|/ˈɛŋlɑnd/}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|nn|proper noun}}

# {{l|en|England}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|nn|engelsk}}
* {{l|nn|engelskmann}}

[[Category:nn:Countries of the United Kingdom]]

----

==Swedish==
{{wikipedia|lang=sv}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sv|/ˈɛŋland/}}
* {{audio|sv|Sv-England.ogg|audio}}

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|n}}

# {{l|en|England}}

[[Category:sv:Countries of the United Kingdom]]
[[Category:sv:England]]
[[Category:English haplological forms]]