 clear edit all lists history

==Englishm==
===Alternative forms===
* G
*
* {{sense|spin / spinning}} gbg

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*h₂enǵʰ-}}
ygFrom , , , from , from , a Germanic tribe ; equal to . Compare ,  (older y), , ,  (whence ), , t, all ultimately derived from  (compare h, , , ).

===Pronunciation===
* F 
*
*
*
*
* {{hyphenation|en|Eng|lish}}

===Adjective===

# Of or pertaining to h.
# English-language <!--hyphenated synonym, please do not delete-->; of or pertaining to the y, descended from t, which developed in England.
#: {{ux|en|Those immigrants Anglicised their names to make them sound more '''English'''.}}
# Of or pertaining to the people of t (to t and y).
#*
# Of or pertaining to the y system of measure.
#: {{ux|en|an '''English''' ton}}
# {{lb|en|Amish}} , so named for speaking English rather than a variety of German.

====Hyponyms====
* Y

====Translations====
===Noun===

# The people of y; Y and e.
#: {{ux|en|The Scottish and the '''English''' have a history of conflict.}}
# I The non-y; non-Amish people.
# Y to employ the English language y or t.
#: ''My coworkers have pretty good '''English''' for non-native speakers.''
# The English-language term or expression for something.
#: ''What's the '''English''' for ‘à peu près’?''
# Specific language or t in English; English t or statements in y, whether in translation or otherwise.
#: ''The technical details are correct, but much of the '''English''' is not very clear.''
# A y of t between g (12 point) and h (18 point), y as 14-y.
# Plain or readily understandable English language.
#* {{quote-av|en|year=1994|actor=Brent Spiner and Gates McFadden|episode=All Good Things...|title=Star Trek: The Next Generation|writers=Brannon Braga and Ronald D. Moore|season=7|number=25-26|text=''Data'': I have completed my analysis of the anomaly. It appears to be a multi-phasic temporal convergence in the space-time continuum. / ''Dr. Crusher:'' In '''English,''' Data.}}
# Spin or y given to a ball, especially in p or h.
#: ''You are trying to put too much '''English''' on the ball.''

====Usage notes====
* The people as a collective noun require the definite article "the" or a demonstrative adjective. Hence: "The English are coming!" or "Oh, those English, always drinking their tea..."

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|type size}} {{qualifier|German contexts}} h, {{qualifier|French contexts}} y

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|sidespin}} t, T

====Derived terms====
* T

====Translations====
===Proper noun===
# A y, T, or t of spoken and or written English.
#* '''2003''' , , "Mother Tongue", in '': Memories of a Writing Life'', page 278
#*: I began to write stories using all the '''Englishes''' I grew up with: the English I spoke to my mother, which for lack of a better term might be described as “simple”; the English she used with me, which for lack of a better term might be described as “broken”; my translation of her Chinese, which could certainly be described as “watered down”; and what I imagined to be her translation of her Chinese if she could speak in perfect English, her internal language, and for that I sought to preserve the essence, but neither an English nor a Chinese structure.
# English language, literature, composition as a subject of study
# originally denoting a non-Celtic or non-Danish person in Britain.
#
# .{{cln|en|eponyms}}

====Hypernyms====
* {{sense|language spoken in British Isles, North America, etc}} ; 

====Usage notes====
* As with the names of almost all languages, ''English'', when it means "the English language", does not usually require an article. Hence: "Say it in plain English!"

====Translations====
===Derived terms===
===Verb===

# To translate, adapt or render into English.
#* , page 214 ('''2001''' reprint):
#*: {{...}}''severe prohibuit viris suis tum misceri feminas in consuetis suis menstruis, etc.'' I spare to '''English''' this which I have said.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1901 |title=The Speaker, the Liberal Review - Volume 3 |author=|page=654 |ISBN=|passage=Mamma is an adaptation of a French farce by Mr. Sydney Grundy, made in the time when his chief claim to recognition as a playwright lay in his ingenious aptitude for '''Englishing''' the un-Englishable.}}
#* '''2011''' , Colin Cheney, 'Where Should I Start with Tomas Tranströmer?':
#*: Here, the poems are '''Englished''' by twelve different translators

===See also===
* 

===Quotations===
*

===Further reading===
*
* 

===Anagrams===
* {{cln|en|autological terms|unisex given names}}
{{c|en|English|Ethnonyms|Languages|Nationalities}} clear edit all lists history system format