==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|entretenir|lang=fro}}, from {{term|entre||among|lang=fro}} + {{term|tenir||to hold|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|inter|lang=la}} + {{term/t|la|teneō||hold, keep}}. For the noun, compare French {{term|entretien|lang=fr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˌɛntəˈteɪn/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˌɛntɚˈteɪn/}}
* {{audio|En-us-entertain.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪn}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To amuse (someone); to engage the attention of agreeably.
#: ''to '''entertain''' friends with lively conversation''
#: ''The motivational speaker not only instructed but also '''entertained''' the audience.''
# {{context|transitive|and|intransitive|lang=en}} To have someone over at one's home for a party or visit.
#: ''They enjoy '''entertaining''' a lot.''
#* Bible, Heb. xiii. 2
#*: Be not forgetful to '''entertain''' strangers{{...}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To receive and take into consideration; to have a thought in mind.
#: ''The committee would like to '''entertain''' the idea of reducing the budget figures.''
#: ''to '''entertain''' a proposal''
#* De Quincey
#*: I am not here going to '''entertain''' so large a theme as the philosophy of Locke.
#* Hawthorne
#*: A rumour gained ground, &mdash; and, however absurd, was '''entertained''' by some very sensible people.
# {{cx|obsolete|lang=en}} To take or keep in one's service; to maintain; to support; to harbour; to keep.
#* Shakespeare
#*: You, sir, I '''entertain''' for one of my hundred.
# {{cx|obsolete|lang=en}} To meet or encounter, as an enemy.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
# {{cx|obsolete|lang=en}} To lead on; to bring along; to introduce.
#* Jeremy Taylor
#*: to baptize all nations, and '''entertain''' them into the services and institutions of the holy Jesus

====Derived terms====
* [[entertainer]]
* [[entertaining]]
* [[entertainment]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to amuse}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|забавлявам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|entretenir}}, {{t+|ca|divertir}}, {{t+|ca|distreure}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|bavit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vermaken}}, {{t+|nl|amuseren}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|lõbustama}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|viihdyttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|divertir}}
* German: {{t+|de|unterhalten}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בידר|tr=bidér}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|amuzar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|divertire}}
* Latin: {{t|la|remittor}}, {{t|la|remitto me}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|divertir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|развлекать|impf|sc=Cyrl|tr=razvlekát'}}, {{t+|ru|развлечь|pf|sc=Cyrl|tr=razvléč}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|divertir}}, {{t+|es|entretener}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|tumbuiza}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|underhålla}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|diddori}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have over at one's home}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|приемам гости|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontvangen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|recevoir}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ארח|tr=eréakh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|oblecto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|развлекаться|impf|sc=Cyrl|tr=razvlekát'sjz}}, {{t|ru|развлечься|pf|sc=Cyrl|tr=razvléčsjz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|argëtoj}}
* German: {{t|de|unterhalten}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|szórakoztat}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|intertener}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|楽しませる|tr=tanoshimaseru}}, {{t|ja|歓待する|tr=kantaisuru}}, {{t|ja|もてなす|tr=motenasu}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|entreter}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|zabavati}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[entertainment#English|Entertainment]]; [[pleasure]].
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[reception|Reception]] of a guest; [[welcome]].
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', IV.8:
#*: But neede, that answers not to all requests, / Bad them not looke for better '''entertayne''' […].

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Tarentine#English|Tarentine]]

[[cs:entertain]]
[[cy:entertain]]
[[et:entertain]]
[[el:entertain]]
[[fa:entertain]]
[[fr:entertain]]
[[ko:entertain]]
[[hr:entertain]]
[[io:entertain]]
[[it:entertain]]
[[kn:entertain]]
[[sw:entertain]]
[[ku:entertain]]
[[lo:entertain]]
[[li:entertain]]
[[hu:entertain]]
[[mg:entertain]]
[[ml:entertain]]
[[my:entertain]]
[[ja:entertain]]
[[no:entertain]]
[[oc:entertain]]
[[pl:entertain]]
[[sm:entertain]]
[[simple:entertain]]
[[fi:entertain]]
[[sv:entertain]]
[[ta:entertain]]
[[te:entertain]]
[[chr:entertain]]
[[vi:entertain]]
[[zh:entertain]]