==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|envie}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|envie}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|invidia||envy}}, from {{m|la|invidere||to look at with malice}} from ''in'' + ''videre'' ("on, upon" + "to look, see"). Displaced native {{cog|enm|ande|ande, onde|envy}} (from {{cog|ang|anda|anda, onda|breath, emotion, envy, hatred, grudge, dislike}}), {{cog|enm|nith|nithe, nith|envy, malice}} (from {{cog|ang|nīþ||envy, hatred, malice, spite, jealousy}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|ĕn'vē}}, {{IPA|/ˈɛnviː/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-uk-envy.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-envy.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~|envies}}

# [[resentful|Resentful]] desire of something possessed by another or others (but not limited to material possessions). {{defdate|from 13<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#* {{w|John Milton}} (1608-1674)
#*: No bliss enjoyed by us excites his '''envy''' more.
#* {{w|Alexander Pope}} (1688-1744)
#*: '''Envy''', to which the ignoble mind's a slave, / Is emulation in the learned or brave.
#* {{RQ:Vance Nobody|I}}
#*: Little disappointed, then, she turned attention to "Chat of the Social World," gossip which exercised potent fascination upon the girl's intelligence. She devoured with more avidity than she had her food those pretentiously phrased chronicles of the snobocracy{{...}}distilling therefrom an acid '''envy''' that robbed her napoleon of all its savour.
#* '''1983''', {{w|Stanley Rosen}}, ''Plato’s Sophist'', p.66:
#*: Theodorus assures Socrates that no '''envy''' will prevent the Stranger from responding
# An object of envious notice or feeling.
#* {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay|Thomas Macaulay}} (1800-1859)
#*: This constitution in former days used to be the '''envy''' of the world.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[hatred|Hatred]], [[enmity]], ill-feeling. {{defdate|14<sup>th</sup>-18<sup>th</sup>c.}}
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|12.52|2|X|lij}}:
#*: Syre said laūcelot vnto Arthur by this crye that ye haue made ye wyll put vs that ben aboute yow in grete Ieopardy / for there be many Knyghtes that haue grete '''enuye''' to vs / therfore whan we shal mete at the daye of Iustes there wille be hard skyfte amonge vs
<!--#*:‘Sir,’ seyde Sir Launcelot unto Kynge Arthur, ‘by this cry that ye have made ye woll put us that bene aboute you in grete jouparté, for there be many knyghtes that hath '''envy''' to us{{nb...}}.’-->
#* '''1598''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry IV, Part 1}}'':
#*: But let me tell the World, / If he out-liue the '''enuie''' of this day, / England did neuer owe so sweet a hope, / So much misconstrued in his Wantonnesse.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Emulation; rivalry.
#* {{w|John Ford (dramatist)|John Ford}} (1586-c.1639)
#*: Such as cleanliness and decency / Prompt to a virtuous '''envy'''.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Public odium; ill repute.
#* {{w|Ben Jonson}} (1572-1637)
#*: to lay the '''envy''' of the war upon Cicero

====Translations====
{{trans-top|resentful desire of something possessed by another}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|حَسَد|m}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|նախանձ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|завист|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|enveja|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|妒嫉|tr=dùjí|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|羡慕|tr=xiànmù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|závist|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|misundelse}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afgunst|f}}, {{t+|nl|nijd|m|alt=nĳd}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|øvundsjúka|f}}, {{t|fo|øvund|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kateus|m}}
* French: {{t+|fr|envie|f}}, {{t+|fr|jalousie|f}}
* Georgian: {{t+|ka|შური}}
* German: {{t+|de|Neid|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φθόνος|m}}
* Hausa: {{t|ha|hassada|f|alt=hassadā̀}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|irigység}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|formad|m}}
*: Old Irish: {{t|sga|format|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|invidia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|嫉妬|tr=しっと, shitto}}, {{t+|ja|ねたみ|tr=netami}}
* Latin: {{t|la|invidia|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|skaudība|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|pavỹdas|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tarahae}}, {{t|mi|harawene}}, {{t|mi|pūhaehae}}, {{t|mi|wenerau}}, {{t|mi|pūngaengae}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|oochʼį́į́d}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|misunnelse|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|misunning|f}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|ofest|f}}, {{t|ang|ofestnes|f}}, {{t|ang|æfestung|f}}, {{t|ang|anda|m}}, {{t|ang|hete|m}}, {{t|ang|niþ|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|حسادت|tr=hesâdat|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|رشک|tr=rašk|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|حسد|tr=hasad|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zazdrość|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|inveja|f}}, {{t|pt|ciumes|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|invidie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|за́висть|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|farmad|m}}, {{t|gd|eud|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|завист|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|љубомора|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|јал|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|závist|f}}, {{t+|sh|ljubòmora|f}}, {{t+|sh|jal|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|závisť|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|zavist|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|envidia|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|avund}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|ఈర్ష్య|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|ఈసు|sc=Telu}}, {{t+|te|అసూయ|sc=Telu}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ความริษยา|tr=ความริษยา|sc=Thai}}, {{t|th|ความอิจฉา|tr=kwaam ìtchăa|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kıskançlık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|env|ies}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To feel displeasure or hatred towards (someone) for their good fortune or possessions. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# {{label|en|obsolete|intransitive}} To have [[envious]] feelings (at). {{defdate|15th-18th c.}}
#* {{RQ:RBrtn AntmyMlncly}}, II.3.3:
#*: I do not '''envy''' at their wealth, titles, offices;{{...}}let me live quiet and at ease.
#* Jeremy Taylor:
#*: Who would '''envy''' at the prosperity of the wicked?
# {{label|en|obsolete|transitive}} To give (something) to (someone) [[grudgingly]] or [[reluctantly]]; to [[begrudge]]. {{defdate|16th-18th c.}}
#* '''1590''', Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene'', III.v:
#*: But that sweet Cordiall, which can restore / A loue-sick hart, she did to him '''enuy'''&nbsp;[…].
# {{label|en|obsolete}} To show [[malice]] or ill will; to [[rail]].
#* Shakespeare:
#: He has{{...}}'''envied''' against the people.
# {{label|en|obsolete}} To do harm to; to injure; to disparage.
#* J. Fletcher
#*: If I make a lie / To gain your love and '''envy''' my best mistress, / Put me against a wall.
# {{label|en|obsolete}} To hate.
#: {{rfquotek|Marlowe}}
# {{label|en|obsolete}} To [[emulate]].
#: {{rfquotek|Spenser}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to feel displeasure towards (someone) because of their good fortune, possessions}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|غَبَطَ}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|նախանձել}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|завиждам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|envejar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|羡慕|tr=xiànmù|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|závidět}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|benijden|alt=benĳden}}, {{t|nl|afgunstig zijn|alt=afgunstig zĳn}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|envii}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|øvunda}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kadehtia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|envier}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|შეშურება}}
* German: {{t+|de|beneiden}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|irigyel}}
* Irish:
*: Old Irish: {{t|sga|formuinethar|alt=for·muinethar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|invidiare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|羨む|tr=うらやむ, urayamu}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|қызғану|sc=Cyrl}}
* Latin: {{t|la|invideō}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|envia}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|حسادت ورزیدن|sc=Arab}}, {{t|fa|رشک ورزیدن|tr=rašk varzidan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zazdrościć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|invejar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|invidia}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|зави́довать}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|завидети|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|завидјети|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|zavideti}}, {{t+|sh|zavidjeti}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|zavidati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|envidiar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|avundas}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ริษยา|tr=rítyaa|sc=Thai}}, {{t+|th|อิจฉา|tr=ìtchăa|sc=Thai}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+check|sh|ljubomorna|f}}, {{t+check|sh|ljubomoran|m}}, {{t+check|sh|ljubomorno|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|envious}}
* {{l|en|social envy}}

[[Category:English abstract nouns]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:en:Emotions]]

[[ca:envy]]
[[cs:envy]]
[[cy:envy]]
[[da:envy]]
[[et:envy]]
[[el:envy]]
[[fa:envy]]
[[fr:envy]]
[[ko:envy]]
[[io:envy]]
[[it:envy]]
[[kn:envy]]
[[ka:envy]]
[[kk:envy]]
[[ku:envy]]
[[lt:envy]]
[[li:envy]]
[[hu:envy]]
[[mg:envy]]
[[ml:envy]]
[[my:envy]]
[[ja:envy]]
[[pl:envy]]
[[pt:envy]]
[[ro:envy]]
[[ru:envy]]
[[sa:envy]]
[[simple:envy]]
[[fi:envy]]
[[sv:envy]]
[[ta:envy]]
[[te:envy]]
[[th:envy]]
[[chr:envy]]
[[tr:envy]]
[[vi:envy]]
[[zh:envy]]