==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|epiphenomenal|ism}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy|psychology|uncountable}} The [[doctrine]] that [[mental]] [[states]] and [[process]]es are [[simply]] [[incidental]] [[effects]] of [[physiological]] events in the [[brain]] or [[nervous system]] and cannot themselves cause any effects in the [[material]] world.
#* '''1997''', Victor Caston, "Epiphenomenalisms, Ancient and Modern," ''The Philosophical Review'', vol. 106, no. 3, p. 310:
#*: The textbook account of '''epiphenomenalism''' goes something like this. Although our thoughts, desires, and other mental states seem to affect what happens in the world, by bringing about changes in our behavior or subsequent mental states, this is ''only an appearance'', cast off by the real physical sequence of cause and effect that underlies our mental life.
# {{lb|en|philosophy|psychology|countable}} Such a doctrine, as advanced by a particular thinker or [[school of thought]].
#* '''1926''', [[w:Stephen_Pepper|Stephen C. Pepper]], "Emergence," ''The Journal of Philosophy'', vol. 23, no. 9, p. 241:
#*: The theory of emergent evolution has been largely developed as a corrective of mechanistic theories with their attendant psycho-physical dualisms and '''epiphenomenalisms'''.

====Related terms====
* [[epiphenomenon]]
* [[epiphenomenal]]
* [[epiphenomenalist]]
* [[epiphenomenalistic]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|doctrine}}
* German: {{t+|de|Epiphänomenalismus|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* ''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed., 1989.
* ''Random House Webster's Unabridged Electronic Dictionary'', 1987-1996.

[[Category:English words suffixed with -ism]]

[[et:epiphenomenalism]]
[[ku:epiphenomenalism]]
[[pl:epiphenomenalism]]
[[ta:epiphenomenalism]]
[[vi:epiphenomenalism]]
[[zh:epiphenomenalism]]