{{also|Appendix:Variations of "er"}}
==English==

{{rank|known|thee|hope|317|er|children|English|sure}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɜː(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/3:(r)/}}
* {{audio|en-us-er.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɜː(r)}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Said when [[hesitating]] in speech.}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|ers|erring|erred}}

# {{informal}} To utter the word "er" when hesitating in speech, found almost exclusively in the phrase '''um and er'''.
#: ''He ummed and '''erred''' his way through the presentation.''

====See also====
* [[uh]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|er}}
* [[re#English|re]], [['re#English|'re]], [[RE#English|RE]], [[r.e.#English|r.e.]], [[øre#English|øre]], [[Ré#English|Ré]]


[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Breton==

===Contraction===
{{infl|br|contraction}}

# [[e#Breton|e]] {{i|preposition "in"}} + [[ur#Breton|ur]] {{i|indefinite article "a(n)"}}
# [[e#Breton|e]] {{i|preposition "in"}} + [[ar#Breton|ar]] {{i|definite article "the"}}

----

==[[Cornish]]==

===Noun===
{{infl|kw|noun}}

# [[eagle]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Adjective===
{{infl|crh|adjective}}

# [[every]]

----

==Danish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛr/|[æɐ̯]|lang=da}}

===Verb form===
{{infl|da|verb form}}

# {{form of|present|være|lang=Danish}}

----

==Dutch==

===Adverb===
{{infl|nl|adverb}}

# [[there]]

====Related terms====
* [[daar]]
* [[hier]]

===Pronoun===
{{infl|nl|pronoun}}

# {{context|personal pronoun}} ''Er'' is an object pronoun used instead of ''[[hem]]'', ''[[haar]]'', ''[[het]]'', or ''[[hen]]'' when such pronoun would be the complement of a preposition (which is not grammatically wrong), in which case ''er'' becomes the complement of a [[postposition]].  If ''er'' is followed immediately by its postposition, the two words can merge to form a pronominal adverb (see the following list of "derived terms").
#: ''Ik heb '''ermee''' gewerkt.'' &mdash; I have worked '''with it'''.
#: ''Je kunt '''er''' de bergen '''boven''' zien.'' &mdash; You can see the mountains '''above it'''.

====Derived terms====
{{top4}}
* [[eraan]]
* [[eraf]]
* [[erbij]]
* [[erin]]
* [[ermee]]
* [[ernaar]]
* [[eronder]]
* [[erop]]
* [[erover]]
* [[eruit]]
* [[ervan]]
* [[ervoor]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[er]|lang=fo}}

===Verb form===
'''er'''

# he, she, it [[is]], ''3rd person singular present form of'' [[vera]] (to be)
#* ''[[hann]] '''er''' [[skipari]]''
#*: he is captain
#* ''[[hon]] '''er''' [[úr]] [[Føroyum]]''
#*: she is from the Faroe Islands
#* ''[[tað]] '''er''' [[í ordan]]''
#*: it's alright


====Conjugation====
{{fo-conj-vera}}

[[Category:Faroese verb forms]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|goh|de}} ''[[#Old High German|er]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[eːɐ̯]|lang=de}} or {{IPA|[ʔɛʁ]|lang=de}}
* {{audio|De-er-1.ogg|pronunciation 1}} {{audio|De-er.ogg|pronunciation 2}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|de|pronoun}}

# {{personal|lang=de}} [[he]].
#: ''Wo ist Klaus? Wo ist '''er'''?'' &mdash; Where is Klaus? Where is he?
# {{personal|lang=de}} [[it]] (when the grammatical gender of the object/article/thing/animal etc., being referred to, is masculine ([[der]])).
#: ''Dies ist mein Hund. '''Er''' heißt Waldi.'' &mdash; This is my dog. Its name is Waldi.
#: ''Dort steht ein Baum. '''Er''' ist über 100 Jahre alt.'' &mdash; There stands a tree. It is more than 100 years old.

====Inflection====
* [[nominative|Nominative]]: '''er'''
* [[accusative|Accusative]]: [[ihn]]
* [[dative|Dative]]: [[ihm]]
* [[genitive|Genitive]]: [[seiner]]

The genitive case ''seiner'' is more and more rarely used in modern German.
* The genitive case ''seiner'' does not express ownership, so one must not mix it up with the possessive pronoun ''[[sein]]'', which is declined by gender, singular/plural and case.

[[Category:German personal pronouns]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Verb===
'''er'''

# [[first person]] [[singular]] [[present tense]] [[indicative]] of ''[[vera#Icelandic|vera]]''
#: ''[[ég#Icelandic|Ég]] '''er''' [[skemmtilegur]].''
#:: I '''am''' [[fun]] ("I" being a man)
#: ''[[hver|Hver]] '''er''' [[ég#Icelandic|ég]]?''
#:: [[who|Who]] '''am''' I?
# [[third person]] [[singular]] [[present tense]] [[indicative]] of ''[[vera#Icelandic|vera]]''
#: ''[[vita#Icelandic|Veit]] [[einhver]] [[hvar]] [[pabbi#Icelandic|pabbi]] [[minn]] '''er'''?''
#:: [[does|Does]] [[anybody]] [[know]] [[where]] my [[dad]] '''is'''?
#: ''[[hver|Hver]] '''er''' [[hann#Icelandic|hann]]?
#:: [[who|Who]] '''is''' [[he]]?

===Pronoun===
{{infl|is|pronoun}}

# {{context|relative pronoun}} [[which]]
#: ''[[maður#Icelandic|Maður]] [[vera#Icelandic|er]] [[sá]], '''er''' [[Jón]] [[heita|heitir]].''
#:: There [[is]] a [[man]] '''whose''' name is [[John]].
#: ''[[kona|Konan]], '''er''' [[hann#Icelandic|hann]] [[vera#Icelandic|var]] að [[tala við]].''
#:: The [[woman]] to '''whom''' [[he]] [[was]] [[talk|talking]].
#: ''[[þetta|Þetta]] [[vera#Icelandic|er]] [[borg|borgin]], '''er''' [[hann#Icelandic|hann]] [[koma|kom]] [[frá]].''
#:: This is the [[city]] [[from]] '''which''' he [[originated]].
#: ''[[bær|Bærinn]], '''er''' [[hún]] [[ætla]]r [[til]].''
#:: The [[town]] to '''which''' she's heading.
# {{archaic|lang=is}} in relations with a [[demonstrative pronoun]] ([[this]], [[that]], [[these]]) or [[personal pronoun]] ([[I]], [[we]], [[they]]), which represents the {{gen}} of a [[relative pronoun]].
#: ''Það er [[sá|sú]] bók, '''er''' [[maður#Icelandic|menn]] þekkja eigi [[höfundur|höfund]] hennar.''
#:: There is a book '''whose''' [[author]] people know not.

===Conjunction===
'''er'''

# (with an "[[indexical]]"; ''[[ábendingarorð]]'') of a place, of a time
#* ''<nowiki>[</nowiki>[[þar|Þar]]] '''er''' [[ég#Icelandic|ég]] [[koma#Icelandic|kom]].''
#*: [There] '''[[whence]]''' I came.
#* ''[[þá er þegar|Þá '''er''' þegar]] [[mynd#Icelandic|myndin]] [[vera#Icelandic|var]] [[búinn|búin]].''
#*: '''When''' the [[movie]] [[was]] [[finished]].

====Derived terms====
* [[þá er þegar]]

[[Category:Icelandic conjunctions]]
[[Category:Icelandic pronouns]]
[[Category:Icelandic verb forms]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Number===
{{cmn-num|p|pin=èr|pint=er4}}

# [[two]]

====Derived terms====
* [[di-er]]
* [[yishi'erniao]]

===Pinyin===
{{cmn-alt-pinyin|er|er0|er5}}

# [[儳]]: obstinate; stupid; uneven; mix
# [[兒]]: [[son]], [[child]], [[oneself]]

===Pinyin syllable===
'''er'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of three tones, [[ér]], [[ěr]], or [[èr]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Manx==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sga|gv}} {{term|for|lang=sga}}.

===Preposition===
{{infl|gv|adjective}}
# [[on]]
# [[onto]]
# [[during]]
# [[for]]

====Inflection====
{{gv-prep-infl
 |1sg    = orrym
 |2sg    = ort
 |3sgm   = er
 |3sgmem = ersyn
 |3sgf   = urree
 |1pl    = orrin
 |2pl    = erriu
 |3pl    = orroo
}}


===Pronoun===
{{infl|gv|prepositional pronoun}}

# {{form of|3rd person singular|er|lang=Manx}}
#: [[on]] [[him]]/[[it]]

====Derived terms====
* [[ersyn]] {{qualifier|emphatic}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Verb===
{{infl|no|verb form}}

# Present tense of [[være]].

----

==Old Frisian==

===Pronoun===
'''er'''

# [[he]]

[[Category:Old Frisian pronouns]]

----

==Old High German==

===Etymology 1===
From {{proto|Germanic|airiz|lang=goh}}, whence also Old English {{term|ær|lang=ang}}.

====Adjective====
{{infl|goh|adjective|head=ēr}}

# [[earlier]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{proto|Germanic|aiz|lang=goh}}, akin to Old English {{term|ar|ār|lang=ang}}, Old Norse {{term|eir|lang=non}}.

====Noun====
{{infl|goh|noun|head=ēr}}

# [[ore]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{proto|Germanic|is|he|lang=goh}}, akin to {{etyl|got|-}} {{term|𐌹𐍃|tr=is||he|lang=got}} Latin {{term|is||he|lang=la}}.

====Pronoun====
{{infl|goh|pronoun}}

# [[he]]

=====Descendants=====
* German: {{l|de|er}}

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ɛr]|lang=pl}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun form}}

# plural genitive of [[era#Polish|era]]

----

==Scots==

===Verb===
'''er'''

# {{South Scots}} Second-person simple present form of ''ti [[be]]''
# {{South Scots}} Plural simple present form of ''ti [[be]]''
# {{South Scots}} First-person singular simple present form of an obscure form of ''ti [[be]]''
#: ''A'm '''er''' so!''

====Usage notes====
Used emphatically. See [[ir]].

[[Category:Scots verb forms]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|sv|pronoun|gender=c|neuter possessive only|ert|plural|era}}

# {{context|accusative}}, {{context|dative}} [[yee]], [[you]] (plural)
# {{context|possessive}} [[your]], [[yours]]; (speaking to more than one person, about one object)
# {{context|reflexive}} of '''[[ni]]'''; c.f. [[yourselves]]
#: ''Skulle ni vilja lära '''er''' jonglera?'' = ''Would you guys like to learn how to juggle?''

====See also====
* [[din#Swedish|din]]
* [[ni#Swedish|ni]]

----

==Turkish==

===Adjective===
{{infl|tr|adjective}}

# [[early]]

===Noun===
{{infl|tr|noun}}

# [[man]]

===Verb form===
{{infl|tr|verb form}}

# [[reach]] (''imperative'')

----

==West Frisian==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fy|pronoun}}

# [[he]]

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|he}} {{term||Er|lang=fy}} is used after a verb which is not the first verb in the sentence. In other cases, {{term|hy|lang=fy}} is used.

[[af:er]]
[[ang:er]]
[[br:er]]
[[cs:er]]
[[da:er]]
[[de:er]]
[[et:er]]
[[el:er]]
[[es:er]]
[[fr:er]]
[[fy:er]]
[[ko:er]]
[[hr:er]]
[[io:er]]
[[is:er]]
[[it:er]]
[[ka:er]]
[[ky:er]]
[[ku:er]]
[[la:er]]
[[lt:er]]
[[li:er]]
[[hu:er]]
[[nl:er]]
[[ja:er]]
[[no:er]]
[[pl:er]]
[[pt:er]]
[[ro:er]]
[[ru:er]]
[[sl:er]]
[[fi:er]]
[[sv:er]]
[[tr:er]]
[[uk:er]]
[[vi:er]]
[[zh:er]]