{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ĕr'ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈɛrə(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/"Er@(r)/}}
* {{audio|en-us-error.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Homophones: [[era]] (depending on pronunciation)
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛrə(r)|-ɛrə(r)]]

===Etymology===
From {{L.}}  ''error''  ("wandering about")

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{countable}} A [[mistake]]; an accidental wrong action or a false statement not made deliberately.
# {{mathematics}} The [[difference]] between a [[measured]] or [[calculated]] [[value]] and a [[true]] one.
# {{baseball|countable}} A play which is scored as having been made incorrectly.
# {{context|appellate|_|law|uncountable}} One or more mistakes in a trial that could be grounds for review of the judgement.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|a mistake}} [[blooper]], [[blunder]], [[boo-boo]], [[defect]], [[fault]], [[faux pas]], [[fluff]], [[gaffe]], [[lapse]], [[mistake]], [[slip]], [[stumble]], [[thinko]]

====Related terms====
* [[errant]]
* [[erroneous]]
* [[erroneously]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from error}}
* [[error correction]]
* [[error handler]]
* [[error handling]]
* [[error in judgement]]
* [[error in judgment]]
* [[error of judgement]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[error of judgment]]
* [[error message]]
* [[in error]]
* [[measurement error]]
* [[syntax error]]
* [[trial and error]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mistake}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|chyba|f}}
* Danish: [[fejl]] {{c}}, [[fejltagelse]] {{c}}, [[forseelse]] {{c}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|viga}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|virhe}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fehler|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hiba}}
* Icelandic: [[mistök]] {{f}}, [[villa]] {{f}}, [[skyssa]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[誤り]]}} ({{Jpan|[[あやまり]]}}, ayamari), {{Jpan|[[間違い]]}} ({{Jpan|[[まちがい]]}}, machigai)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|هه‌ڵه‌|tr=hele|sc=KUchar}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|błąd|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|erro|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|oшибкa|f|tr=ošíbka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|difference between a measured or calculated value and a true one}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|chyba|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|afvigelse|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|virhe}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fehler|m}}
* Icelandic: [[skekkja]] {{f}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[誤差]]}} ({{Jpan|[[ごさ]]}}, gosa)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|هه‌ڵه‌|tr=hele|sc=KUchar}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|błąd pomiaru|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|erro|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|погрешность|f|tr=pogr'éšnost'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: play which is scored as having been made incorrectly}}
* Icelandic: [[Villa]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[エラー]]}} (erā), {{Jpan|[[失策]]}} ({{Jpan|[[しっさく]]}}, shissaku)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one or more mistakes in a trial that could be grounds for review of the judgement}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fejl|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Irrtum|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[грешка]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Czech}}: [[omyl]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[fout]], [[vergissing]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[erreur]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: [[σφάλμα]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[שגיאה]] {{f}}, [[טעות]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[errore]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[eroare]] {{f}}, [[greşeală]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[chyba]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[napaka]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: error {{m}}, [[yerro]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[fel]] {{n}}, [[misstag]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{computing}} To cause an error.
#* The web-page took a long time to load and '''errored''' out.
#* Remove that line of code and the script should stop '''erroring''' there.
#* This directory '''errors''' with a "Permission denied" message.
# {{computing}} To show or contain an error or fault.
#* The block transmission '''errored''' near the start and could not be received.
# {{non-standard}} To [[err]].
#* '''1993''' December, Arie Kaufman (editor), ''Rendering, Visualization, and Rasterization Hardware'', Springer-Verlag New York LLC
#*: Pixels which are mathematically outside of a triangle, but which are included for anti-aliasing purposes can be generated with colour and depth information outside of the valid range. The ADE should identify these cases and clamp the output to the minimum or maximum value depending on the direction it has '''errored''' in.
#* '''2000''' December, Randy W. Kamphaus, ''Clinical Assessment of Child And Adolescent Intelligence'', Allyn & Bacon
#*: By doing so examiners are '''erroring''' in the direction of drawing hypotheses based on greater evidence of reliability and validity.
#* '''2001''' November, Daniel D. Dancer, ''Shards and Circles: Artistic Adventures in Spirit and Ecology'', Trafford Publishing
#*: Error is not just permitted by diversity; it is what permits diversity.''...'' The beetle had “'''errored'''” beautifully
#* '''2002''' May, Sylvain Beauregard, ''Passion Celine Dion the Book: The Ultimate Guide for the Fan!'', Trafford Publishing
#*: Many other celebrities '''errored''' in the political comments area...<!--[sic.]-->

====Synonyms====
* [[err]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To show an error}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause or contain an error}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(nonstandard) To make a mistake; to result in an error}}
: ''See: '' '''[[err]]'''
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[error out]]

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}
* [[unerring]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* '''[[IPA]]''': [e.ˈroɾ]

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m|pl=errorer}}

# An [[#English|error]]

====Synonyms====
* [[equivocación]] {{f}}
* [[yerro]] {{m}}

====Related terms====
* [[errar]]

[[ar:error]]
[[zh-min-nan:error]]
[[ca:error]]
[[de:error]]
[[el:error]]
[[fa:error]]
[[fr:error]]
[[ko:error]]
[[io:error]]
[[id:error]]
[[it:error]]
[[kk:error]]
[[ku:error]]
[[lo:error]]
[[hu:error]]
[[ml:error]]
[[nl:error]]
[[ja:error]]
[[pl:error]]
[[pt:error]]
[[ru:error]]
[[simple:error]]
[[fi:error]]
[[sv:error]]
[[ta:error]]
[[te:error]]
[[vi:error]]
[[tr:error]]
[[uk:error]]
[[zh:error]]