==English==

===Etymology===
From {{AGr.}} {{term|sc=polytonic|ἐσώτερoς|tr=esōteros||inner|lang=grc}} (''esoteric'' originally referred to the secret (vs. public) teachings of Greek philosophers).

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|/ěsōtěr'ĭk/}}, {{IPA|/ˌes.əʊˈter.ɪk/}}, {{SAMPA|/%Es.oU"tEr.Ik/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛrɪk}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Understood only by a chosen few or an [[enlightened]] inner circle.
#: ''Many Wikipedians are glad that the [[wikipedia:Sum of absolute transformed differences|Sum of absolute transformed differences]] was not the 2,000,000th article, because it would've been too '''esoteric''' to adequately celebrate. Fortunately, it was article 2,000,001, while [[wikipedia:El Hormiguero|El Hormiguero]], a Spanish comedy show, was the 2,000,000th.
# Having to do with [[concept]]s that are highly [[theoretical]] and without obvious practical application.
# [[confidential|Confidential]]; [[private]].

====Synonyms====
* [[arcane]]
* [[recondite]]

====Antonyms====
* [[exoteric]]

====Related terms====
* [[esoterica]]
* [[esotericism]]
* [[esotericist]]
* [[esoterism]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|understood only by a chosen few or an enlightened inner circle}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|esoteerinen}}
* German: {{t-|de|esoterisch}}
* Greek: {{t|el|εσωτερικός||tr=esoterikós|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t|it|esoterico|m}}, {{t+|it|esoterica|f}}, {{t|it|esoterici|m|p}}, {{t|it|esoteriche|f|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|秘儀の|tr=[[ひぎの]], higi no|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|奥義の|tr=[[おうぎの]], ōgi no|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ezoteryczny|m}}, {{t|pl|tajemny|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|эзотерический|tr=ezoteríčeskij|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having to do with concepts that are highly theoretical}}
* German: {{t-|de|esoterisch}}
* Greek: {{t|el|απόκρυφος||tr=apókrifos|sc=Grek}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|深遠な|tr=[[しんえんな]], shin'enna|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zawiły|m}}, {{t|pl|niezrozumiały|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|эзотерический|tr=ezoteríčeskij|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|confidential; private}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|luottamuksellinen}}
* German: {{t+|de|geheim}}
* Greek: {{t|el|εσωτερικός||tr=esoterikós|sc=Grek}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|秘密の|tr=[[ひみつの]], himitsu no|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ezoteryczny|m}}, {{t|pl|tajny|m}}, {{t|pl|skryty|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|эзотерический|tr=ezoteríčeskij|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|тайный|tr=tájnyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|скрытый|tr=skrýtyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[esoterisch]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[ésotérique]]
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[비전]] (bijeon)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[esotericus]] {{m}}, [[esoterica]] {{f}}, [[esotericum]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Mandarin Chinese}}: [[神秘]] (shenmi)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[esotérico]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[esotérico]] {{m}}, esotérica {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[езотеричний]] (ezoterychnyy) ''од. чол.'', [[езотерична]] (ezoterychna) ''од. жін.'', [[езотеричне]] (ezoterychne) ''од. сер.'', [[езотеричні]] (ezoterychni) ''мн.''
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[exoterism]]
* [[occult]]
* [[paranormal]]
* [[supernatural]]
* [[theoretical]]

[[Category:Occult]]

[[fr:esoteric]]
[[io:esoteric]]
[[hu:esoteric]]
[[pl:esoteric]]
[[ru:esoteric]]
[[ta:esoteric]]
[[te:esoteric]]
[[vi:esoteric]]
[[zh:esoteric]]