{{see|esperanto}}
{{interwiktionary|code=eo}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From Esperanto ''[[esperanto#Esperanto|esperanto]]'' (one who hopes), from {{F.}} ''[[espérer]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[sperare]]'' (to [[hope]]). Originally, this was the pseudonym assumed by the language's creator, L. L. Zamenhof, and the language was called ''[[lingvo#Esperanto|Lingvo]] [[internacia|Internacia]]'' (international language).

===Pronunciation===
*{{enPR|ĕs"pə-răn'tō}}, {{enPRchar|ĕs"pə-rän'tō}}
*[[Received Pronunciation|UK-RP]]:
**{{IPA|/ˌɛspəˈɹæntəʊ/}}, {{IPAchar|/ˌɛspəˈɹɑːntəʊ/}}
**{{SAMPA|/%Esp@"r\{nt@U/}}, {{SAMPAchar|/%Esp@"r\A:nt@U/}}
*[[General American|US-GA]]:
**{{IPA|/ˌɛspəˈɹæntoʊ/}}, {{IPAchar|/ˌɛspəˈɹɑntoʊ/}}
**{{SAMPA|/%Esp@"r\{ntoU/}}, {{SAMPAchar|/%Esp@"r\AntoU/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æntəʊ|-æntəʊ]], [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːntəʊ|-ɑːntəʊ]]

===Noun===
'''Esperanto'''

# The name of an international [[auxiliary language]] designed by [[w:L. L. Zamenhof|L. L. Zamenhof]] with a base vocabulary inspired by Indo-European languages such as English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian, and  having a streamlined grammar with completely regular conjugations, declensions, and inflections.
# (''metaphorical'') Anything that is used as a single international medium in place of plural distinct national media.  Example: "The U.S. dollar is the Esperanto of currency."

====Derived terms====
* [[Esperantic]]
* [[Esperantist]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|auxiliary language}}
* Albanian: esperanto {{n}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[اسبرانتو|إسبرانتو]]}} (’isbarántu), {{ARchar|[[اسپرانتو|إسپرانتو]]}} (’isparántu)
* [[Basque]]: esperanto
* Bosnian: [[esperantski#Bosnian|esperantski]] {{m}}
* Bulgarian: [[есперанто]]
* [[Catalan]]: esperanto {{m}}
* Chinese: [[世界語]], [[世界语]] (Shìjiè yǔ)
* Czech: [[esperanto]] {{n}}
* Dutch: Esperanto {{n}}
* Esperanto: Esperanto
* Estonian: Esperanto
* Finnish: esperanto
* French: [[espéranto]] {{m}}
* German: Esperanto {{n}}
* Greek: [[Εσπεράντο]]
* [[Gujarati]]: [[એસ્પેરાન્તો]] [[:gu:એસ્પેરાન્તો|^]]
* Hebrew: [[אספרנטו|אֶסְפֶּרַנְטוֹ]] (esperanto)
* Hindi: [[एस्पेरान्तो]] [[:hi:एस्पेरान्तो|^]]
* Hungarian: [[eszperantó]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[esperanto#Interlingua|esperanto]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: [[Espeirantó]] {{m}}
* Italian: esperanto
* Japanese: [[エスペラント]] (esuperanto), [[エスペラント語]] (esuperanto-go)
* Korean: [[에스페란토]] (eseuperanto)
* Kurdish: [[esperantoyî]] {{f}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[bangrn­esperanto]]
* Norwegian: esperanto
* [[Novial]]: [[esperanto]]
* Persian: {{FAchar|[[اسپرانتو]]}} (esperânto)
* Polish: esperanto
* Portuguese: esperanto {{m}}
* Romanian: esperanto, [[limba esperanto]]
* Russian: [[эсперанто]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[есперантски#Serbian|есперантски]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[esperantski#Serbian|esperantski]] {{m}}
* Spanish: esperanto {{m}}
* Swedish: [[esperanto]] {{c}}
* Vietnamese: [[quốc tế ngữ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* [http://www.uni-leipzig.de/esperanto/voko/revo/ Reta Vortaro] (short : ReVo) a multingual dictionary with esperanto definitions and translations in many languages. Project started in 1997. You can link from Wikimedia project to ReVo typing <nowiki>[[ReVo:vort|vorto]]</nowiki> (= word) which becomes : [[ReVo:vort|vorto]]. See also [[Wiktionary:Reta Vortaro|ReVo]]
* {{ethnologue|code=epo}}

----

==Catalan==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{m}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Czech==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{n}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''Esperanto''' {{n}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/es.peˈran.to/}}
* {{SAMPA|/es pe"ran to/}}

===Etymology===
From Esperanto verb ''[[esperi]]'' "to hope", which derives from Latin ''[[sperare]]'' "to hope".

===Noun===
'''Esperanto'''

# One who [[hope]]s.
# An international [[auxiliary language]] designed by [[w:L. L. Zamenhof|L. L. Zamenhof]] with a base vocabulary inspired by Indo-European languages such as English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian.

===See also===
* [[esperantisto]]
* [[esperantujo]]
* [[esperantio]]
* [[esperantumado]]
* [[bonantagulo]]

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
'''esperanto'''

# Esperanto.

----

==German==

===Noun===
'''Esperanto''' {{n}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Interlingua==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{n}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{m}}

# Esperanto.

===See also===
* [[esperantista]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
'''esperanto'''

# Esperanto.

----

==Polish==

===Noun===
'''esperanto'''

# Esperanto.

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{m}}

# Esperanto.

----

==Romanian==

===Noun===
'''esperanto'''

# Esperanto.

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''esperanto''' {{m}}

# Esperanto.

[[Category:Languages]]

[[af:Esperanto]]
[[ar:Esperanto]]
[[zh-min-nan:Esperanto]]
[[br:Esperanto]]
[[ca:Esperanto]]
[[de:Esperanto]]
[[el:Esperanto]]
[[es:Esperanto]]
[[eo:Esperanto]]
[[fr:Esperanto]]
[[gu:Esperanto]]
[[ko:Esperanto]]
[[hy:Esperanto]]
[[hi:Esperanto]]
[[io:Esperanto]]
[[it:Esperanto]]
[[ku:Esperanto]]
[[lt:Esperanto]]
[[hu:Esperanto]]
[[nl:Esperanto]]
[[ja:Esperanto]]
[[nds:Esperanto]]
[[pl:Esperanto]]
[[pt:Esperanto]]
[[ru:Esperanto]]
[[sk:Esperanto]]
[[sl:Esperanto]]
[[fi:Esperanto]]
[[sv:Esperanto]]
[[vi:Esperanto]]
[[tr:Esperanto]]
[[zh:Esperanto]]