==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|stare|stāre|stand|lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|sto|stō|stand|lang=la}}

===Verb===
{{ca-verb|pres_1_sg=estic|past_part=estat}}

# to [[be]]
# to [[stop]]

====Usage notes====
'''Estar''' in the sense of "to be" is used for a temporary state or for a position. ''See also'': [[ésser]].
* '''''Estic''' cansada.'' — “I'm tired.”
* ''La Torre Eiffel '''està''' a París.'' — “The Eiffel Tower is in Paris.”
'''Estar''' + ''present participle'' forms the continuous tenses.
* ''Ja '''està''' dormint.'' — “He's already sleeping.”

====Conjugation====
{{ca-conj|verb=estar
| pres_part=estant
| past_part=estat
| pres_ind_1_sg=estic
| pres_ind_2_sg=estàs
| pres_ind_3_sg=està
| pres_ind_1_pl=estem
| pres_ind_2_pl=esteu
| pres_ind_3_pl=estan
| impf_ind_1_sg=estava
| impf_ind_2_sg=estaves
| impf_ind_3_sg=estava
| impf_ind_1_pl=estàvem
| impf_ind_2_pl=estàveu
| impf_ind_3_pl=estaven
| futr_ind_1_sg=estaré
| futr_ind_2_sg=estaràs
| futr_ind_3_sg=estarà
| futr_ind_1_pl=estarem
| futr_ind_2_pl=estareu
| futr_ind_3_pl=estaran
| pret_ind_1_sg=estiguí
| pret_ind_2_sg=estigueres
| pret_ind_3_sg=estigué
| pret_ind_1_pl=estiguérem
| pret_ind_2_pl=estiguéreu
| pret_ind_3_pl=estigueren
| cond_1_sg=estaria
| cond_2_sg=estaries
| cond_3_sg=estaria
| cond_1_pl=estaríem
| cond_2_pl=estaríeu
| cond_3_pl=estarien
| pres_sub_1_sg=estigui
| pres_sub_2_sg=estiguis
| pres_sub_3_sg=estigui
| pres_sub_1_pl=estiguem
| pres_sub_2_pl=estigueu
| pres_sub_3_pl=estiguin
| impf_sub_1_sg=estigués
| impf_sub_2_sg=estiguessis
| impf_sub_3_sg=estigués
| impf_sub_1_pl=estiguéssim
| impf_sub_2_pl=estiguéssiu
| impf_sub_3_pl=estiguessin
| impr_2_sg=estigues
| impr_3_sg=estigui
| impr_1_pl=estiguem
| impr_2_pl=estigueu
| impr_3_pl=estiguin
}}

====Related terms====
* [[estada]]
* [[estadant]]
* [[estar-se]]
* [[estaria]]

===References===
* {{R:IEC4}}

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|stare|stāre|stand|lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|sto|stō|stand|lang=la}}

===Verb===
{{gl-verb|est|ar|pres=estou|pret=estiven|part=estado}}

# to [[be]]

====Usage notes====
Like Portuguese and Spanish, Galician has two different verbs that are usually translated to English as “to be”.  The verb '''{{term|ser|lang=gl}}''' relates to {{term|essence}}, {{term|origin}}, or physical {{term|description}}.  In contrast, the verb '''''estar''''' relates to current {{term|state}} or {{term|position}}.

====Conjugation====
{{gl-conj (estar)}}

===See also===
* [[ser#Galician|ser]]

[[Category:Galician irregular verbs]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|pt}} {{term|stare|stāre|stand|lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|sto|stō|stand|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Portugal}} {{IPA|/ʃtər/|lang=pt}}
* {{a|Brazil}} {{IPA|lang=pt|/esˈtar/|/isˈtar/|/iʃˈtar/|lang=pt}}

===Verb===
{{pt-verb||estar}}

# Indicates location in space; to [[be]];
#: ''Onde '''estás'''?'' - “Where are you?”
#: '''''Estou''' em casa.'' - “I am at home.”
# Denotes a [[transient]] quality; to [[be]], to [[stay]];
#: ''O tempo '''estava''' frio.'' - “The weather was cold (at that moment).”
#: '''''Estás''' louco?'' - “Are you crazy (right now)?”
# Auxiliary verb for the progressive tense, precedes verb in gerund; to [[be]].
#: ''Ela '''está''' cantando?'' - “Is she singing?”
#: ''Nos últimos dias, eles '''estão''' trabalhando muito.'' - “These past few days, they are working a lot.”

====Conjugation====
{{pt-conj||estar}}

====See also====
* [[ser]]
* [[ter]]
* [[haver]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|stare|stāre|stand|lang=la}}, present active infinitive of {{term|sto|stō|stand|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=es|/esˈtaɾ/}}
*{{audio|es-us-estar.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{es-verb|est|ar|pres=estoy|pret=estuve}}

# To have a ([[transient]]) location in space. Compare ''[[ser]]'', ''[[quedar]]''.
#: ''¿Dónde '''estás'''?''
#:: Where are you?
#: '''''Estoy''' en casa.''
#:: I am at home.
# Denotes a copula, in a [[transient]] fashion. Compare ''[[ser]]''.
#: ''El tiempo '''estaba''' frío.''
#:: The weather was cold [back then].
#: ''¿'''Estás''' feliz?''
#:: Are you happy [right now]?
#: ''El vaso '''está''' roto.''
#:: The vase is broken. ("Estar," rather than "ser," precedes a past participle that is an adjective instead of a [[passive voice|passive verb]]) 
# Auxiliary verb for the [[progressive]] [[aspect]]; precedes the [[gerund]] of the verb.
#: ''Ella '''está''' cantando.''
#:: She is singing.

====Conjugation====
{{es-conj-ar (estar)}}

====Usage notes====
Portuguese and Spanish have two different verbs that are usually translated to English as “to be”: '''''ser''''' relates to '''[[essence]]''', contrasting with ''[[estar]]'', which relates to '''[[state]]'''.  Contrast the following:
* ''El hombre '''está''' felíz.''—“The man is [currently] happy.”
* ''El hombre '''es''' felíz.''—“The man is [always] happy.”
* ''¿'''Estás''' loco?''—“Are you crazy [currently out of your mind]?”
* ''¿'''Eres''' loco?''—“Are you crazy [permanently insane]?”

====Derived terms====
* '''''estar''' [[por]]'' + infinitive: “to [[be]] to be done”, “to be (still) undone”:
*: ''[[esto#Finnish|Esto]] todavía '''está''' por [[hacer]].''—“This is still to be done.”

====Related terms====
* [[estado]]
* [[estadía]]
* [[estancia]]
* [[estación]]

====Descendants====
* Hiligaynon: [[istar]]

====See also====
* [[ser]]

[[Category:Spanish irregular verbs]]

[[an:estar]]
[[ca:estar]]
[[cs:estar]]
[[de:estar]]
[[el:estar]]
[[es:estar]]
[[eo:estar]]
[[fr:estar]]
[[gl:estar]]
[[ko:estar]]
[[hr:estar]]
[[io:estar]]
[[ia:estar]]
[[lt:estar]]
[[li:estar]]
[[hu:estar]]
[[nl:estar]]
[[ja:estar]]
[[no:estar]]
[[oc:estar]]
[[pl:estar]]
[[pt:estar]]
[[ru:estar]]
[[fi:estar]]
[[sv:estar]]
[[ta:estar]]
[[th:estar]]