==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[æsteem]] {{qualifier|archaic}}
* [[esteeme]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
First at end of 16th century; from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|estimer|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|aestimare||to value, rate, weigh, estimate|lang=la}}; see [[estimate]], and [[aim]], an older word, partly a doublet of ''esteem''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ɛsˈtiːm]}}
* {{audio|en-us-esteem.ogg|Audio (US)}}

* {{rhymes|iːm}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[favourable]] [[regard]]

====Derived terms====
* [[self-esteem]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|favourable regard}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|հարգանք|tr=hargank’}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|уважение|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|почит|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᎦᎸᏉᏗ|tr=galvquodi|sc=Cher}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|úcta|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|achting|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kunnioitus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|estime|f}}, {{t+|fr|respect|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Achtung|f}}, {{t+|de|Ansehen|n}}, {{t+|de|Wertschätzung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπόληψη|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|εκτίμηση|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|כבוד|sc=Hebr|tr=kavod}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|urraim|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|stima|f}}
* Latin: {{t|la|diligere}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|matihere}}
* Nahuatl: {{t+|nah|itta}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|estima}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|stimă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уважение|n|tr=uvažénije}}, {{t+|ru|почтение|n|tr=počténije|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|почёт|m|tr=počót|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|onair|f}}, {{t|gd|urram|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|estima}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vördnad|c}}, {{t+|sv|aktning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To set a high value on; to [[regard]] with [[respect]] or [[reverence]].
#* Bible, Job xxxvi. 19
#*: Will he '''esteem''' thy riches?
#* Tennyson
#*: You talk kindlier: we '''esteem''' you for it.
# To regard something as [[valuable]]; to [[prize]].
# To look upon something in a [[particular]] way.
#: ''Mary is an '''esteemed''' member of the community.''
#* Bible, Deuteronomy xxxii. 15
#*: Then he forsook God, which made him, and lightly '''esteemed''' the Rock of his salvation.
#* Bishop Gardiner
#*: Thou shouldst (gentle reader) '''esteem''' his censure and authority to be of the more weighty credence.
#* Hawthorne
#*: Famous men, whose scientific attainments were '''esteemed''' hardly less than supernatural.
#* '''1843''', [[w:Thomas_Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', book 3, ch. V, ''The English''
#*: And greatly do I respect the solid character, — a blockhead, thou wilt say;  yes, but a well- conditioned blockhead, and the best-conditioned, — who '''esteems''' all ‘Customs once solemnly acknowledged’ to be ultimate, divine, and the rule for a man to walk by, nothing doubting, not inquiring farther.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[judge]]; to [[estimate]]; to [[appraise]]
#: ''The Earth, which I '''esteem''' unable to reflect the rays of the Sun.''

====References====
* {{R:OED2}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to regard with respect}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|уважавам}}, {{t+|bg|почитам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|achten}}, {{t+|nl|waarderen}}, {{t+|nl|prijzen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kunnioittaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|respecter}}
* German: {{t+|de|schätzen}}, {{t+|de|ansehen}}, {{t+|de|achten}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εκτιμώ|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|σέβομαι|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|υπολήπτομαι|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|τρέφω εκτίμηση|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|τρέφω σεβασμό|sc=Grek}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|estima}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|szanować}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|estimar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|stima}}, {{t+|ro|aprecia}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|уважать|impf|tr=uvažátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|почитать|impf|tr=počitátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|чтить|impf|tr=čtitʹ}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|vörda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to regard as valuable}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|arvostaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ценить|impf|tr=cenítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Mestee#English|Mestee]]

[[de:esteem]]
[[et:esteem]]
[[el:esteem]]
[[es:esteem]]
[[fa:esteem]]
[[fr:esteem]]
[[ko:esteem]]
[[io:esteem]]
[[it:esteem]]
[[kn:esteem]]
[[kk:esteem]]
[[li:esteem]]
[[hu:esteem]]
[[mg:esteem]]
[[ml:esteem]]
[[my:esteem]]
[[ja:esteem]]
[[ps:esteem]]
[[pl:esteem]]
[[ro:esteem]]
[[ru:esteem]]
[[simple:esteem]]
[[fi:esteem]]
[[sv:esteem]]
[[tl:esteem]]
[[ta:esteem]]
[[te:esteem]]
[[chr:esteem]]
[[uk:esteem]]
[[vi:esteem]]
[[zh:esteem]]