{{also|Appendix:Variations of "et"}}
==Translingual==

===Initialism===
{{head|mul|initialism}}

# {{context|airlines|lang=mul}} Ethiopian Airlines' IATA airline designator
# {{context|climate|lang=mul}} Tundra climate's Köppen climate classification
# {{context|Internet|lang=mul}} ''.et'', the country code top level domain (ccTLD) for Ethiopia
# {{context|ISO|lang=mul}} Estonian language's ISO 639 code
# {{context|ISO|lang=mul}} Ethiopia's ISO 3166-1 country code

----

==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛt/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛt|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|et}}, in turn from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|et}}

====Conjunction====
{{en-con}}

# {{context|obsolete|_|except in fixed phrases|lang=en}} [[and]]

=====See also=====
* [[et al.]], [[et alia]], [[et aliae]], [[et alii]], [[et alios]]
* [[et alibi]]
* [[et seq.]]
* [[&]]

===Etymology 2===

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{context|colloquial|or|dialectal|lang=en}} {{en-past of|eat}}
#* '''1896''', Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain), ''Tom Sawyer, Detective'' [http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=638956722&textreg=2&query=+he+et&id=TwaDete]:
#*: Well, the man was astonished, of course; and first off he looked like he didn't know whether to be scared, or glad, or both, or which, but finally he settled down to being glad; and then his color come back, though at first his face had turned pretty white. So we got to talking together while he '''et''' his breakfast.
#* '''1907''', O. Henry, ''Seats of the Haughty'' [http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Seats_of_the_Haughty]:
#*: 'Boss,' says the cabby, 'I '''et''' a steak in that restaurant once. If you're real hungry, I advise you to try the saddle-shops first.'
#* '''1919''', Bess Streeter Aldrich, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=62096991&tag=Aldrich,+Bess+Streeter:+A+Long-Distance+Call+From+Jim,+1919&query=he+et&id=AldLong A Long-Distance Call From Jim]'':
#*: Well, I don't care if he does! I can remember the time when he '''et''' a good old-fashioned supper. And it's awful silly to call it dinner. 'Breakfast, dinner and supper, created He them.' I believe I could find them very words in the Bible if I set out to hunt.
#* '''1937''', J. R. R. Tolkien, ''The Hobbit'':
#*: Yer can't expect folk to stop here for ever just to be '''et''' by you and Bert.
#* '''1946''' February 18, ''Life'' magazine<!--, ''Pepto-Bismol for upset stomach'' advertisement-->:
#*: It must have been somethin’ I '''et'''!<!-- majuscule/minuscule and line-breaks sic : ''IT MUST / HAVE BEEN / ''somethin’'' / I ET!'' -->
#* '''1996''', Dana Lyons, "Cows with Guns":
#*: They eat to grow, grow to die / Die to be '''et''' at the hamburger fry.
#* '''2001''', Richard Williams, ''The Animator's Survival Kit'', page 220:
#*: Something I '''et'''?<!-- majuscule/minuscule and line-breaks sic : ''SOMETHING I ET? / OR / HAD A DRINK?'' -->

===Anagrams===
* [[te#English|te]]

[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]

----

==Albanian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|sq|etje}}

===Etymology===
Uncertain. Possibly from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*i̯et}} 'to set out for; to strive'. Compare Old Irish {{term|ītu||thirst|lang=sga}}, Irish {{term|ēt||eagerness, jealousy|lang=ga}}, Latin {{term|sitis||thirst|lang=la}}, Tocharian A {{term|yat||reach, get|lang=xto}}. Alternatively from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{m|ine-pro|*eus-ti-}}, cognate to Greek {{term|αἰτέω||to demand, to beg|lang=el}}.

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|f|etje|etja|etjet}}

# [[thirst]]

----

==Catalan==

===Pronoun===
{{ca-ppron|type=procl|procl_con=t'|encl=te|encl_con='t}}

# [[you]], [[thee]] (singular, direct or indirect object)

====Declension====
{{ca-decl-ppron}}

----

==Chuukese==

===Numeral===
{{head|chk|numeral}}

# {{context|cardinal|serial counting|lang=chk}} [[one]]

[[Category:chk:One]]

----

==Danish==
{{rfc|needs more love}}

===Etymology===
{{rfe}}

===Article===
{{head|da|article|common|en}}

# [[a]], [[an]]

----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|et|fiu-fin-pro|*että}} (compare Finnish {{term|että|lang=fi}}), from the same {{etyl|urj-pro|et}} root {{m|urj-pro|*e-||this}} as Hungarian {{term|ez|lang=hu}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|et|conjunction}}

# [[that]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[eːʰt]|lang=fo}}

===Verb===
{{head|fo|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|eta||s|impr|lang=fo}}

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fi-IPA}}
* {{hyphenation|et|lang=fi}}

===Etymology 1===

====Verb====
{{head|fi|verb form}}

# The second-person singular form of the [[negation]] [[verb]]. The English translations include ''[[do]] [[not]]''/''[[don't|don’t]]'' and ''[[not]]'' (with auxiliary verbs and ''[[be]]'').

=====Usage notes=====
* The negative verb is used with the connegative form of the main verb. That form is identical to the second-person singular imperative in the indicative present. The potential mood connegative ends in the marker for the mood, ''-ne-'', and the conditional mood connegative ends in the marker for the mood, ''-isi-''. In the indicative past, conditional past and potential past, the ''active'' past participle singular (ending -''ut''/-''yt'') is used. ''The connegative form of the main verb is always used without the personal suffix''.

:* Usage of ''et'':
::* Indicative:

:::* [[sinä|Sinä]] [[nähdä|näet]]. (You see.) -> Sinä '''et''' näe. (You ''do not'' see.)
:::* Sinä näit. (You saw.) -> Sinä '''et''' nähnyt. (You ''did not'' see.)
:::* Sinä [[olla|olet]] nähnyt. (You have seen.) -> Sinä '''et''' ole nähnyt. (You have ''not'' seen.)
:::* Sinä olit nähnyt. (You had seen.) -> Sinä '''et''' ollut nähnyt. (You had ''not'' seen.)

::* Conditional:
:::* Sinä näkisit. (You would see.) -> Sinä '''et''' näkisi. (You would ''not'' see.)
:::* Sinä olisit nähnyt. (You would have seen.) -> Sinä '''et''' olisi nähnyt. (You would ''not'' have seen.)

::* Potential:
:::* Sinä nähnet. (You probably see.) -> Sinä '''et''' nähne. (You probably ''do not'' see.)
:::* Sinä lienet nähnyt. (You have probably seen.) -> Sinä '''et''' liene nähnyt. (You have probably ''not'' seen.)

=====Conjugation=====
* The negative verb has ''no infinitive form''. The negative verb is the same with indicative, conditional and potential mood and, with those moods, it is conjugated only in person. (For the second-person singular of the negative verb in the [[imperative]] mood, see ''[[älä]]''. An archaic [[w:Optative mood|optative mood]] has also a second-person singular form, ''[[ällös]]''.)

{| border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="1" style="border-collapse: collapse;"
|-
| || '''singular''' || '''plural'''
|-
| first person || [[en#Finnish|en]] || [[emme#Finnish|emme]]
|-
| second person || '''et''' || [[ette#Finnish|ette]]
|-
| third person || [[ei#Finnish|ei]] || [[eivät#Finnish|eivät]]
|}

===Etymology 2===
Shortened form of {{term|lang=fi|että}}.

====Conjunction====
{{head|fi|conjunction|cat2=subordinating conjunctions}}

# {{context|subordinating|colloquial|lang=fi}} [[that|That]].

=====Synonyms=====
* [[että#Finnish|että]] {{qualifier|standard Finnish}}

===Anagrams===
* [[te#Finnish|te]]

[[Category:Finnish two-letter words]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|et||and; plus|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[e]|lang=fr}}
* {{audio|Fr-et.ogg|Audio (France, Paris)|lang=fr}}
* {{rhymes|e|lang=fr}}
* {{homophones|ai|lang=fr}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|fr|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

===Usage notes===
* ''et'' is not subject to liaison.

===Anagrams===
* [[te#French|te]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|it}} {{term|et||and; plus|lang=la}}.

===Conjunction===
{{head|it|conjunction}}

# {{context|archaic|poetic|lang=it}} {{alternative form of|e|lang=it}}

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* [[&]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ine-pro|la}} {{m|ine-pro|*éti}}. Cognate with {{etyl|ang|-}} prefix {{term|ed-||anew, again|lang=ang}}. More at {{l|en|ed-}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Classical}} {{IPA|/et/|lang=la}}
* {{audio|la-cls-et.ogg|Audio (Classical)|lang=la}}
* {{homophones|-et|lang=la}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|la|conjunction}}

# [[and]]
# {{context|mathematics|lang=la}} [[plus]]
#: ''Duo '''et''' duo sunt quattuor.''
#:: Two '''plus''' two equals four.
# {{context|literary|lang=la}} [[though]], [[even if]]

====Usage notes====
* When used in pairs, ''et''...''et'' may function like English {{term|both|lang=en}}...{{m|en|and}}.

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|and}} [[-que]]
* {{sense|and}} [[atque]]

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[carpere et colligere]]
* [[de gustibus et coloribus non est disputandum]]
* [[et al]], [[et al.]]
* [[etcetera]], [[et cetera]]
* [[et hoc genus omne]]
* [[etiam]]
{{mid2}}
* [[et tu, Brute]]
* [[et ux]], [[et ux.]], [[et uxor]]
* [[ex aequo et bono]]
* [[lux et veritas]]
* [[urbi et orbi]]
* [[vox et praeterea nihil]]
{{bottom}}

====Descendants====
{{top2}}
* Aragonese: {{l|an|y}}
* Aromanian: {{l|rup|e}}
* Asturian: {{l|ast|y}}
* Catalan: {{l|ca|i}}
* Corsican: {{l|co|e}}
* Dalmatian: {{l|dlm|e}}
* French: {{l|fr|et}}
* Friulian: {{l|fur|e}}
* Galician: {{l|gl|e}}
* Ido: {{l|io|e}},{{l|io|ed}}
* Istriot: {{l|ist|e}}
* Italian: {{l|it|e}}, {{l|it|ed}}, {{l|it|et}}
* Norman: {{l|nrf|et}}
* Ladino: {{l|lad|i|sc=Latn}}, {{l|lad|אי|sc=Hebr}}
{{mid2}}
* Middle French: {{l|frm|et}}
* Occitan: {{l|oc|e}}
* Old French: {{l|fro|e}}, {{l|fro|et}}
* Old Provençal: {{l|pro|e}}
* Old Spanish: {{l|osp|e}}
* Picard: {{l|pcd|et}}
* Portuguese: {{l|pt|e}}
* Romanian: {{l|ro|e}}
* Romansch: {{l|rm|e}}, {{l|rm|ed}}
* Sardinian: {{l|sc|e}}
* Sicilian: {{l|scn|e}}
* Spanish: {{l|es|e}}, {{l|es|y}}
* Volapük: {{l|vo|e}}, {{l|vo|ed}}
* Walloon: {{l|wa|et}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
* [[ampersand]]

===Adverb===
{{la-adv|et||-}}

# [[also]], [[too]], [[besides]], or [[likewise]]

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|lb}} {{m|gem-pro|*hit}}. Cognate with German {{term|es|lang=de}}, English {{term|it|lang=en}}, Dutch {{term|het|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ət/|lang=lb}}
** {{rhymes|ət|lang=lb}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|lb|pronoun|cat2=personal pronouns}}

# ''third-person neuter singular, nominative'': [[it]]
# ''third-person neuter singular, accusative'': [[it]], to it

====Declension====
{{lb-decl-personal pronouns}}

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=dum|/et/|/ət/}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|dum|pronoun}}

# {{alternative form of|het|lang=dum}}

----

==Middle French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|frm}} {{term|et|lang=la}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|frm|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

----

==Norman==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|nrf}} {{m|fro|et}}, from {{etyl|la|nrf}} {{m|la|et}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Jer-et.ogg|Audio (Jersey)|lang=nrf}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|nrf|conjunction}}

# {{label|nrf|Jersey}} [[and]]

===Noun===
{{nrf-noun|m}}

# {{label|nrf|Jersey}} [[ampersand]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nrf|ampèrsand}}

{{catlangcode|nrf|Punctuation marks}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|No-et.ogg|Audio|lang=nb}}

===Article===
{{head|nb|article|g=n}}

# [[an]] (indefinite article)

{{tbot entry|Norwegian|an|2008|April|nb}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Verb===
{{head|nn|verb form}}

# {{nn-verb-form of|present tense|et}}
# {{nn-verb-form of|imperative|et}}

----

==Novial==

===Conjunction===
{{head|nov|conjunction|head=et ... e}}

# {{context|coordinating|lang=nov}} [[both]] ... [[and]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|e}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fro}} {{term|et|lang=la}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|fro|conjunction}}

# [[and]]
#: '''circa 1170''', {{w|Chrétien de Troyes}}, ''[[s:fr:Érec et Énide|Érec et Énide]]'':
#:: Blanches '''et''' verz, bloes '''et''' jaunes
#::: Whites and greens, blues and yellows.

----

==Pipil==

===Etymology===
Compare {{etyl|nci|-}} {{term|lang=nci|etl||bean}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|standard}} {{IPA|/ˈeːt/|lang=ppl}}
* {{a|Izalco}} {{IPA|/ˈet/|lang=ppl}}

===Noun===
{{ppl-noun|head=ēt|pl=ejēt}}

# bean
#: {{ux|ppl|Shikua '''et''' pal titamanat musta|Buy '''beans''' to cook tomorrow}}

----

==Saterland Frisian==

===Pronoun===
{{head|stq|pronoun|g=n}}

# [[it]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|f}}

# [[ampersand]]

====See also====
* {{l|es|y comercial|g=f}}

----

==Tok Pisin==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|tpi}} {{term|eight|lang=en}}.

===Numeral===
{{head|tpi|numeral}}

# [[eight]]

===Usage notes===
Used when counting; see also [[etpela]].

[[Category:Tok Pisin cardinal numbers]]
[[Category:French coordinating conjunctions]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} ''et'' (“meat”), from {{etyl|trk-pro|tr}} {{m|trk-pro|*et||meat}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛt/|lang=tr}}

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|i|ler}}

# [[meat]]

====Declension====
{{tr-noun-c|i|t|pred=-|poss=+}}

----

==Uzbek==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|trk-pro|uz}} {{m|trk-pro|*et}}

===Noun===
{{uz-noun}}

# [[flesh]]
# [[meat]]

----

==Walloon==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|wa|eyet}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|wa}} {{term|et|lang=la}}.

===Conjunction===
{{head|wa|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

[[af:et]]
[[ar:et]]
[[ast:et]]
[[az:et]]
[[ca:et]]
[[cs:et]]
[[da:et]]
[[de:et]]
[[et:et]]
[[el:et]]
[[es:et]]
[[eo:et]]
[[eu:et]]
[[fa:et]]
[[fr:et]]
[[fy:et]]
[[gl:et]]
[[ko:et]]
[[hy:et]]
[[hr:et]]
[[io:et]]
[[id:et]]
[[ia:et]]
[[ie:et]]
[[it:et]]
[[csb:et]]
[[kk:et]]
[[ku:et]]
[[ky:et]]
[[lo:et]]
[[la:et]]
[[lv:et]]
[[lb:et]]
[[lt:et]]
[[li:et]]
[[hu:et]]
[[mg:et]]
[[mt:et]]
[[mn:et]]
[[my:et]]
[[nah:et]]
[[fj:et]]
[[nl:et]]
[[ja:et]]
[[no:et]]
[[uz:et]]
[[nds:et]]
[[pl:et]]
[[pt:et]]
[[ro:et]]
[[ru:et]]
[[sq:et]]
[[scn:et]]
[[sk:et]]
[[fi:et]]
[[sv:et]]
[[ta:et]]
[[chr:et]]
[[tr:et]]
[[uk:et]]
[[ug:et]]
[[vec:et]]
[[vi:et]]
[[vo:et]]
[[wa:et]]
[[wo:et]]
[[zh:et]]