{{also|Evangelist}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|evangeliste|lang=fro}}, from ecclesiastical {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|evangelista|lang=la}}, from ecclesiastical {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|εὐαγγελιστής||bringer of good news|tr=euangelistes|lang=grc}}, from {{term|εὐαγγελίζεσθαι||to evangelize|lang=grc}}, from {{term|εὐάγγελος||bringing good news|tr=euangelos|lang=grc}}, from {{term|εὖ||well|tr=eu|lang=grc}} + {{term|ἀγγέλλειν|tr=angelein||to announce|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɪˈvændʒəlɪst/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Christianity|lang=en}} An [[itinerant]] or special [[preacher]], especially a [[revivalist]].
# A preacher of the [[Quran]]
#* '''2013''', Synnøve Bendixsen, ''The Religious Identity of Young Muslim Women in Berlin'', page 11
#*: {{...}} ''like the Egyptian [Muslim evangelist] Amr Khaled; they are losing interest in the utopia of an Islamic state.''
# A preacher of the [[gospel]].
# {{context|Bible|lang=en}} A writer of a gospel, especially the four [[New Testament]] [[Gospel]]s (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John), ''usually'' [[Evangelist]].
# {{context|primitive Church|lang=en}} A person who first brought the gospel to a city or region.
# {{context|Mormon Church|lang=en}} A [[patriarch]]
# A person marked by [[extreme]] enthusiasm for or support of any [[cause]], particularly with regard to religion.
#* '''1992''', J. D. Douglas, ''Who's Who in Christian History'', ISBN 0842310142, p. 94.
#*: Booth, William (1829-1912) English '''evangelist'''; founder and first general of the Salvation Army ... his subordinates being expected to give him unquestioning obedience.
#* '''1994''', Frank Lambert, ''"Pedlar in Divinity"'', ISBN 0691096163, p. 10.
#*: Yet in the spreading consumer market of the mid-1700s, his renditions competed with others offering a far different account of the '''evangelist''' and his message. The famous artist William Hogarth mocked Whitefield in two engravings presenting the revivalist as a religious fanatic who held sway over the superstitious lower orders.
#* '''1996''', Peter J. Conn, ''Pearl S. Buck: A Cultural Biography'', ISBN 0521639891, p. 149.
#*: The film implies that the '''evangelist''', as a type, is a fanatic, a sanctimonious prig, and ultimately a hypocrite.

====Related terms====
* [[angel]]
* [[angelic]]
* [[evangelize]]
* [[televangelist]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|itinerant or special preacher, especially a revivalist}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|evangelist|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|matkasaarnaaja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|preacher of the gospel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|evankelista}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|writer of a gospel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|evankelista}}
* German: {{t|de|Evangelist|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|guðspjallamaður|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ewangelista|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|evangelist|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|primitive Church: person who first brought the gospel to a city or region}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|evankelioija}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Mormon Church: patriarch}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person marked by extreme enthusiasm}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kiihkoilija}}, {{t|fi|intoilija}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[évangéliste]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[evangelista]]
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[福音]]の[[伝道者]] (fukuin-no dendousha)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: [[انجيلي]] (enjeeli)
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[evangelista]]
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[evangelist]] {{g|c}} (4, 5)
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[missionary]]
* [[Christer]]

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-evangelist.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-en|evangelistje}}

# {{context|Christianity|lang=nl}} [[#English|evangelist]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{head|sv|noun|g=c}}

# [[#English|evangelist]]; a preacher of the gospel
# [[#English|evangelist]]; a writer of a gospel

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}

[[Category:sv:Christianity]]

[[ang:evangelist]]
[[et:evangelist]]
[[el:evangelist]]
[[fr:evangelist]]
[[ko:evangelist]]
[[io:evangelist]]
[[kn:evangelist]]
[[sw:evangelist]]
[[ml:evangelist]]
[[my:evangelist]]
[[nl:evangelist]]
[[ja:evangelist]]
[[pl:evangelist]]
[[ru:evangelist]]
[[sl:evangelist]]
[[sh:evangelist]]
[[fi:evangelist]]
[[sv:evangelist]]
[[ta:evangelist]]
[[te:evangelist]]
[[vi:evangelist]]