{{wikipedia|dab=exhaust}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|lang=la|exhaustus}}, past participle of {{term|lang=la|exhaurire||to draw out, drink up, empty, exhaust}}, from {{term|lang=la|ex||out}} + {{term|lang=la|haurire||to draw (especially water), drain}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɔːst|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To draw or let out wholly; to drain off completely; as, to exhaust the water of a well; the moisture of the earth is exhausted by evaporation.
# To empty by drawing or letting out the contents; as, to exhaust a well, or a treasury.
# To drain, metaphorically; to use or expend wholly, or till the supply comes to an end; to deprive wholly of strength; to use up; to weary or tire out; to wear out; as, to exhaust one's strength, patience, or resources.
#: ''A decrepit, exhausted old man at fifty-five. --Motley.''
# To bring out or develop completely; to discuss thoroughly; as, to exhaust a subject.
# {{context|chemistry|lang=en}} To subject to the action of various solvents in order to remove all soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drug successively with water, alcohol, and ether.

====Synonyms====
* [[spend]], [[consume]]
* [[tire out]], [[weary]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:fatigue]]

====Related terms====
* [[exhaustion]]
* [[exhaustive]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to draw or let out wholly; to drain off completely}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tyhjentää}}, {{t+|fi|poistaa}}, {{t+|fi|kuivattaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to empty by drawing or letting out the contents}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|изчерпвам|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|изразходвам|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|изтощавам}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|用盡|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|用尽|tr=yòngjìn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|盡|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|尽|tr=jìn|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|耗盡|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|耗尽|tr=hàojìn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vyčerpat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitputten}}, {{t+|nl|verminderen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tyhjentää}}, {{t|fi|ehdyttää}}, [[käyttää#Finnish|käyttää]] {{t+|fi|loppu|alt=loppuun}}
* French: {{t+|fr|épuiser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|erschöpfen}}, {{t+|de|dezimieren}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kimerít}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kuras}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|使い尽くす|tr=つかいつくす, tsukaitsukusu|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|尽くす|tr=つくす, tsukusu|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|使い切る|tr=つかいきる, tsukaikiru|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|исчерпывать|impf|tr=isčérpyvatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|истощать|impf|tr=istoščátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|израсходовать|pf|tr=izrasxódovatʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|agotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to drain, metaphorically; to wear out}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|uuvuttaa}}, [[kuluttaa#Finnish|kuluttaa]] {{t+|fi|loppu|alt=loppuun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakaporo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bring out or develop completely; to discuss thoroughly}}
* Finnish: [[käsitellä#Finnish|käsitellä]] {{t+|fi|loppu|alt=loppuun}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|chemistry: to subject to the action of solvents}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|poistaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A system consisting of the parts of an engine through which burned gases or steam are discharged; see also [[exhaust system]].
# The steam let out of a cylinder after it has done its work there.
# The foul air let out of a room through a register or pipe provided for the purpose.
#* {{quote-book|year=2006|author=[[w:Edwin Black|Edwin Black]]
|title=Internal Combustion
|chapter=1|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL4103950W
|passage=If successful, Edison and Ford—in 1914—would move society away from the{{...}}hazards of gasoline cars: air and water pollution, noise and noxiousness, constant coughing and the undeniable rise in cancers caused by smoke '''exhaust''' particulates.}}
# An [[exhaust pipe]], especially on a motor vehicle.
# Short for [[wikipedia:exhaust gas|exhaust gas]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|system consisting of the parts of an engine through which burned gases or steam are discharged}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|ауспух|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|uitlaatpijp|f}}, {{t+|nl|uitlaat|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pakokaasujärjestelmä}}, {{t|fi|pakoputkisto}}
* German: {{t+|de|Auspuff|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εξάτμιση|f|tr=exátmisi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выхлоп|m|tr=výxlop|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|tubo de escape|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the steam let out of a cylinder after it has done its work there}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitlaat|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|poistohöyry}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abgas|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|eksos|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выхлоп|m|tr=výxlop|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|выхлопные газы|m-p|tr=vyxlopnýje gázy}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|escape}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the foul air let out of a room through a register or pipe provided for the purpose}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitlaat|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|poistoilma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abluft|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|выхлопные газы|m-p|tr=vyxlopnýje gázy}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|exhaust pipe}}

{{trans-top|exhaust gas}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pakokaasu}}
* German: {{t+|de|Abgas}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|eksos|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|eksos|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[exhaust draught]]
* [[exhaust fan]]
* [[exhaustless]]
* [[exhaust nozzle]]
* [[exhaust pipe]]
{{mid2}}
* [[exhaust port]]
* [[exhaust purifier]]
* [[exhaust steam]]
* [[exhaust system]]
* [[exhaust valve]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Exhausted; used up.

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:en:Auto parts]]

[[et:exhaust]]
[[el:exhaust]]
[[fa:exhaust]]
[[fr:exhaust]]
[[ko:exhaust]]
[[io:exhaust]]
[[it:exhaust]]
[[kn:exhaust]]
[[ku:exhaust]]
[[li:exhaust]]
[[hu:exhaust]]
[[mg:exhaust]]
[[ml:exhaust]]
[[my:exhaust]]
[[ja:exhaust]]
[[pl:exhaust]]
[[ru:exhaust]]
[[simple:exhaust]]
[[fi:exhaust]]
[[sv:exhaust]]
[[tl:exhaust]]
[[ta:exhaust]]
[[te:exhaust]]
[[tr:exhaust]]
[[vi:exhaust]]
[[zh:exhaust]]