{{also|Haar|hår}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Related to Middle Dutch ''hare'' and modern Dutch ''haere''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|haars}}

# Coastal [[fog]] along the coast of North East England and Scotland bordering the North Sea.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|Hara}}

----

==Afrikaans==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|nl|af}} {{m|nl|haar}}.

====Pronoun====
{{head|af|pronoun form|subject|sy}}

# [[her]] (object)

====See also====
{{af-personal pronouns}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|nl|af}} {{m|nl|haar}}.

====Determiner====
{{head|af|determiner}}

# [[her]]

====See also====
{{af-personal pronouns}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|af|nl|haar}}.

====Noun====
{{af-noun|hare}}

# {{topics|af|Body parts}} {{l|en|hair}}

----

==Alemannic German==

===Noun===
{{head|gsw|noun}}

# {{lb|gsw|Formazza}} [[hair]]

===References===
* Umberto Patuzzi, ed., (2013) [http://www.lusern.it/documenti/Centro_documentazione/libri-depliant-att--didattica-relazioni-etc-/libri/le-nostre-parole-luserna.pdf Ünsarne Börtar], Luserna: Comitato unitario delle linguistiche storiche germaniche in Italia / Einheitskomitee der historischen deutschen Sprachinseln in Italien.
 
----

==Cimbrian==

===Noun===
{{cim-noun|n}}

# {{lb|cim|Sette Comuni}} [[hair]]

===References===
* Umberto Patuzzi, ed., (2013) [http://www.lusern.it/documenti/Centro_documentazione/libri-depliant-att--didattica-relazioni-etc-/libri/le-nostre-parole-luserna.pdf Ünsarne Börtar], Luserna: Comitato unitario delle linguistiche storiche germaniche in Italia / Einheitskomitee der historischen deutschen Sprachinseln in Italien

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aːr|lang=nl}}
* {{IPA|/ɦaːr/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-haar.ogg|audio|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|nl|dum|haer}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|hiro}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*hezōi}}.

====Pronoun====
{{head|nl|pronoun|g=f|cat2=personal pronouns}}

# {{lb|nl|personal}} Third-person singular, feminine object pronoun: [[her]]
#: {{ux|nl|Ik zeg het tegen '''haar''' (1), maar je kunt '''haar''' (2) beter nog een mailtje sturen.|t=I’ll mention it to '''her''', but you’d better send '''her''' a mail as well.}}
#:: (1) [[accusative]] personal pronoun, (2) [[dative]] personal pronoun

=====Inflection=====
{{nl-decl-personal pronouns}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|nl|dum|haer}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|hira}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*hezōz}}.

====Determiner====
{{head|nl|pronoun|dependent possessive, independent possessive|hare|contracted form|'r|cat2=possessive determiners}}

# Third-person singular, feminine possessive adjective: [[her]]
#* [[:w:nl:|Wikipedia]], ''[[:w:nl:Dood van Diana Frances Spencer|Dood van Diana Frances Spencer]]''
#*: ''Op 31 augustus 1997 overleed Diana Frances Spencer, Prinses van Wales bij een auto-ongeluk in een tunnel bij de Pont de l'Alma in Parijs, samen met <b>haar</b> vriend Dodi Al-Fayed en hun chauffeur.'' &mdash; On August 31, 1997, Diana Frances Spencer, Princess of Wales, died in a car accident in a tunnel by the Pont de l'Alma in Paris, together with her friend Dodi Al-Fayed and their driver.

=====Inflection=====
{{nl-decl-personal pronouns}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|nl|heur}} {{i|archaic or dialectal variant}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|nl|dum|haer}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|hiro}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*hezǫ̂}}.

====Determiner====
{{head|nl|pronoun|dependent possessive, independent possive|hare}}

# {{lb|nl|archaic}} Third-person plural possessive adjective: [[their]]

=====Usage notes=====
* ''Haar'' (“their”) was the normal Middle Dutch form for all genders in the plural. In modern Dutch, {{m|nl|hun}} successively replaced ''haar'' in this function. Some writers of the 19th and early 20th century made a learned distinction, using {{m|nl|hun}} as the masculine and neuter plural, but {{m|nl|haar}} for the feminine in both singular and plural: ''mannen en hunne vrouwen'' (“men and their wives”) versus ''vrouwen en hare mannen'' (“women and their husbands”).

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|their}} {{l|nl|hun}}

===Etymology 4===
From {{inh|nl|dum|hâer}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|hār}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*hērą}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|n|g2=c|-en|haartje}}

# {{topics|nl|Body parts}} {{lb|nl|uncountable}} {{l|en|hair}} {{gloss|collection of hairs}}
# {{topics|nl|Body parts}} {{lb|nl|countable}} {{l|en|hair}} {{gloss|mammalian keratin filament}}

====Usage notes====
* The noun is traditionally neuter in all senses. As a countable noun, it is now sometimes of common gender.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nl|behaard}}
* {{l|nl|haarloos}}
* {{l|nl|haarspoeling}}
* {{l|nl|haarzeep}}
* {{l|nl|harig}}
* {{l|nl|hoofdhaar}}
* {{l|nl|krulhaar}}
* {{l|nl|ontharen}}
* {{l|nl|snorhaar}}
* {{l|nl|verharen}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aːɐ̯|lang=de}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|haaren|i|s}}
# {{lb|de|colloquial}} {{de-verb form of|haaren|1|s|g}}

----

==Scots==

===Noun===
{{sco-noun|-}}

# [[sea]] [[fog]]