{{wikipedia|dab=hack}}
{{also|häck|Hack}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hæk/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|hacken}}, {{m|enm|hakken}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|*haccian}} {{gloss|"to hack"; attested in {{m|ang|tōhaccian||to hack to pieces}}}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*hakkōną||to chop; hoe; hew}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*keg-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*keng-||to be sharp; peg; hook; handle}}. 

Cognate with Saterland Frisian {{m|stq|häkje||to hack}}, West Frisian {{m|fy|hakje||to hack}}, Dutch {{m|nl|hakken||to chop up; hack}}, German {{m|de|hacken||to chop; hack; hoe}}, Danish {{m|da|hakke||to chop}}, Swedish {{m|sv|hacka||to hack; chop}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To chop or cut down in a rough manner. {{defdate|circa 12th c.}}
#: ''They '''hacked''' the brush down and made their way through the jungle.''
#* '''1912''': {{w|Edgar Rice Burroughs}}, {{w|Tarzan of the Apes}}, Chapter 6
#*: Among other things he found a sharp hunting knife, on the keen blade of which he immediately proceeded to cut his finger. Undaunted he continued his experiments, finding that he could '''hack''' and hew splinters of wood from the table and chairs with this new toy.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To cough noisily. {{defdate|19th c.}}
#: ''This cold is awful. I can't stop '''hacking'''.''
# To withstand or put up with a difficult situation. {{defdate|20th c.}}
#: ''Can you '''hack''' it out here with no electricity or running water?''
# {{lb|en|transitive|slang|computing}} To [[hack into]]; to gain unauthorized access to (a computer system, e.g., a website, or network) by manipulating code; to [[crack]].
# {{lb|en|transitive|slang|computing}} By extension, to gain unauthorised access to a computer or online account belonging to (a person or organisation).
#: ''When I logged into the social network, I discovered I'd been '''hacked'''.''
# {{lb|en|computing}} To accomplish a difficult programming task.
#: ''He can '''hack''' like no one else and make the program work as expected.''
# {{lb|en|computing}} To make a quick code change to [[patch]] a [[computer program]], often one that, while being effective, is inelegant or makes the program harder to maintain.
#: ''I '''hacked''' in a fix for this bug, but we'll still have to do a real fix later.''
# {{lb|en|transitive|colloquial|by extension}} To apply a trick, shortcut, skill, or novelty method to something to increase productivity, efficiency or ease.
#: ''I read up on dating tips so I can '''hack''' my sex life.''
# {{lb|en|computing|slang|transitive}} To work with on an intimately technical level.
#: ''I'm currently '''hacking''' distributed garbage collection.''
# {{lb|en|ice hockey}} To strike an opponent's leg with one's [[hockey stick]].
#: ''He's going to the penalty box after '''hacking''' the defender in front of the goal.''
# {{lb|en|ice hockey}} To make a flailing attempt to hit the [[puck]] with a hockey stick.
#: ''There's a scramble in front of the net as the forwards are '''hacking''' at the bouncing puck.''
# {{lb|en|baseball}} To [[swing]] at a [[pitched]] ball.
#: ''He went to the batter's box '''hacking'''.''
# {{lb|en|soccer and rugby}} To [[kick]] (a player) on the [[shin]]s.
# To [[strike]] in a frantic movement.
#* {{quote-journal
|date=December 29, 2010
|author=Chris Whyatt
|title=Chelsea 1 - 0 Bolton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9309542.stm
|page=
|passage=Centre-back Branislav Ivanovic then took a wild slash at the ball but his captain John Terry saved Chelsea's skin by '''hacking''' the ball clear for a corner with Kevin Davies set to strike from just six yards out.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[strike]] lightly as part of [[tapotement]] [[massage]].
#* '''1915''', Louisa L. Despard, ''Handbook of Massage for Beginners'' (page 14)
#*: {{...}} laterally from and then towards the spine, and continued downwards from the shoulders until the whole back has been '''hacked'''.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from hack}}
* {{l|en|hack away}}
* {{l|en|hack down}}
* {{l|en|hack in}}
* {{l|en|hacking}}, {{l|en|hackingly}}, {{l|en|hacky}}
* {{l|en|hack into}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|hack it}}
* {{l|en|hack up}}
* {{l|en|hackability}}
* {{l|en|hacker}}
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|gain unauthorized access}} {{l|en|crack}}
* {{l|en|frob}}
* {{l|en|tweak}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to chop or cut down in a rough manner}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|режа}}, {{t+|bg|нарязвам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hakken}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|haki}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|charcuter}}, {{t+|fr|couper}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|hakar}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|hachar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|aprirsi un varco}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|цепи|tr=cépi}}, {{t|mk|касапи|tr=kásapi}}, {{t|mk|парчосува|tr=parčósuva}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hakke}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cortar}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|cöpilön}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cough noisily}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|кашлям}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kuchen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|köhiä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tousser}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tossire}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|бувта|tr=búvta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to withstand or put up with a difficult situation}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pärjätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|farcela}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|klara sig}}, {{t+|sv|stå ut}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to gain illegal access to a computer network}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хаквам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakkeroida}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გატეხვა|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|შეჭრა|sc=Geor}}
* Greek: {{t|el|χακάρω|tr=hakáro|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t|it|accedere illegalmente}}, {{t|it|introdursi illegamente}}, {{t|it|penetrare abusivamente}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|хакува|tr=hákuva}}, {{t|mk|хакира|tr=hakíra}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|menggodam}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|هک کردن|tr=hak kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|نفوذ کردن|tr=nofuz kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|hakować}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|hackear}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|взлома́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hackear}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hacka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to gain unauthorised access to a computer or online account}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хаквам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murtautua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გატეხვა|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|შეჭრა|sc=Geor}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hackear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to accomplish a difficult programming task}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|sbrogliare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a quick code change to patch a computer program}}
* Finnish: [[pätsätä]] {{qualifier|slang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|rattoppare}}, {{t|it|riprogrammare}}, {{t|it|riconfigurare}}, {{t|it|rimodulare}}, {{t|it|ricodificare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to apply a trick, shortcut, skill, or novelty method}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|parantaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to work with on an intimately technical level}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[työskennellä]] [[jonkin]] [[parissa]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ice hockey: to strike an opponent's leg with one's hockey stick}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|подсичам}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[huitoa]] [[jaloille]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ice hockey: to make a flailing attempt to hit the puck}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sohia}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: to swing at a pitched ball}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[heilauttaa]] [[mailaa]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|football: to kick on the shins}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[potkia]] [[pohkeille]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to strike in a frantic movement}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lennättää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A tool for chopping. {{defdate|14th c.}}
# A hacking [[blow]]. {{defdate|19th c.}}
# A [[gouge]] or [[notch]] made by such a blow.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
# A dry cough.
# A hacking; a catch in speaking; a short, broken cough.
#: {{rfquotek|Dr. H. More}}
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} A try, an attempt. {{defdate|19th c.}}
# {{lb|en|curling}} The [[foothold]] traditionally cut into the ice from which the person who throws the rock pushes off for delivery.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[mattock]] or a miner's [[pickaxe]]. <!-- Concise Oxford Dictionary -->
# {{lb|en|computing|slang}} An illegal attempt to gain access to a computer network.
# {{lb|en|computing|slang}} A video game or any computer software that has been altered from its original state.
# {{lb|en|computing}} An interesting technical achievement, particularly in [[computer programming]].
# {{lb|en|computing}} An expedient, temporary solution, such as a small [[patch]] or change to code, meant to be replaced with a more elegant solution at a later date.
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} A trick, shortcut, skill, or novelty method to increase productivity, efficiency or ease.
#: ''Putting your phone in a sandwich bag when you go to the beach is such a great '''hack'''.''
# {{lb|en|slang|military}} Time check.
# {{lb|en|baseball}} A [[swing]] of the [[bat]] at a pitched ball by the [[batter]].
#: ''He took a few '''hacks''', but the pitcher finally struck him out.''
# A [[kick]] on the [[shin]]s in [[football]].
#: {{rfquotek|T. Hughes}}

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|access attempt}} {{l|en|crack}}
* {{sense|expedient, temporary solution}} {{l|en|band-aid}}, {{l|en|contrivance}}, {{l|en|improvision}}, {{l|en|improvisation}}, {{l|en|kludge}}, {{l|en|makeshift}}, {{l|en|quick fix}}, {{l|en|patch}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|marginal hacks}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|tool for chopping}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|мотика|f}}, {{t+|bg|кирка|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kirves}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hacking blow}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|gouge or notch made by such a blow}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|iskujälki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dry cough}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|суха кашлица}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kuch|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|köhä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|tosse secca|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|[[tosse]] [[seca]]|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[сухо́й]] [[ка́шель]]|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|short, broken cough}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|köhäys}} {{qualifier|one}}, {{t|fi|köhinä}} {{qualifier|repetitive}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|figuratively: try, attempt}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|опит|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|yritys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|curling: foothold device}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hakki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mattock or miner's pick}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakku}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|illegal attempt to gain access to a computer network}}
* Finnish: ; {{t|fi|hakkerointiyritys}}, {{t|fi|tietomurtoyritys}}
* Italian: {{t|it|pirateria informatica|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ការលបលួចចូល|tr=kaa lɔɔp luǝc cool|sc=Khmr}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|хакирање|n|tr=hakíranje}}, {{t|mk|хакување|n|tr=hakúvanje}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interesting technical achievement in programming}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: expedient, temporary solution}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pätsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|espediente|m}}, {{t|it|accorgimento|m}}, {{t+|it|rimedio|m}}, {{t+|it|toppa|f}}, {{t+|it|rattoppo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trick, shortcut, skill, or novelty method}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|niksi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: time check}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: swing of the bat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heilautus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|football: kick on the shins}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[potku]] [[pohkeeseen]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Variations of {{m|en|hatch}}, {{m|en|heck}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|falconry}} A board which the falcon's food is placed on; used by extension for the state of partial freedom in which they are kept before being trained.
# A food-rack for [[cattle]].
# A rack used to dry something, such as [[bricks]], [[fish]], or [[cheese]].
# A [[grating]] in a [[mill race]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To lay (bricks) on a rack to dry.
# {{lb|en|falconry}} To keep (young hawks) in a state of partial freedom, before they are trained.

===Etymology 3===
Abbreviation of {{m|en|hackney||an ordinary horse}}, probably from place name [[Hackney]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} An ordinary saddle [[horse]], especially one which has been let out for hire and is old and tired. {{defdate|from the 14th c.}}
# A person, often a journalist, hired to do routine work. ([[newspaper hack]]) {{defdate|from the 17th c.}}
#* ''I got by on '''hack''' work for years before I finally published my novel.''
# {{lb|en|pejorative}} Someone who is available for [[hire]]; [[hireling]], [[mercenary]].
# {{lb|en|slang}} A taxicab ([[hackney cab]]) driver.
# A coach or carriage let for hire; particularly, a coach with two seats inside facing each other; a hackney coach.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: On horse, on foot, in '''hacks''' and gilded chariots.
# {{lb|en|pejorative}} An untalented writer.
#* ''Dason is nothing but a two-bit '''hack'''.''
#* ''He's nothing but the typical '''hack''' writer.''
# {{lb|en|pejorative}} One who is professionally successful despite producing mediocre work. (Usually applied to persons in a creative field.)
# {{lb|en|pejorative}} A talented writer-for-hire, paid to put others' thoughts into [[felicitous]] language.
# {{lb|en|politics}} A political agitator. (slightly derogatory) <!-- This expression was used a lot in student politics in the 1980s. I'm not sure if it is still used much. publunch-->
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A writer who hires himself out for any sort of literary work; an overworked man; a drudge.
#* Goldsmith
#*: Here lies poor Ned Purdon, from misery freed, / Who long was a bookseller's '''hack'''.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[procuress]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|A saddle horse which is old and tired}} {{l|en|nag}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|taxicab driver}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бакшиш}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|taxichauffeur|m}}, {{t+|nl|taxichauffeuse|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taksikuski}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|taxista|m|f}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|cöpilod}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ordinary horse, especially an old, tired one}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|кранта|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koni}}, {{t+|fi|kaakki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who is professionally successful despite producing mediocre work}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|talented writer-for-hire}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|knol}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|taxi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|untalented writer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|political agitator}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Coordinate terms=====
* {{sense|worthless horse}} {{l|en|bum}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|dated}} To make [[common]] or [[cliched]]; to [[vulgarise]].
# To ride a horse at a regular pace; to ride on a road (as opposed to riding cross-country etc.).
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To be exposed or offered or to common use for hire; to turn [[prostitute]].
#: {{rfquotek|Hanmer}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To live the life of a [[drudge]] or hack.
#: {{rfquotek|Goldsmith}}
# To use as a hack; to let out for hire.
# To use frequently and indiscriminately, so as to render trite and commonplace.
#* J. H. Newman
#*: The word "remarkable" has been so '''hacked''' of late.

===Etymology 4===
From {{m|en|hackysack|}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small ball usually made of woven cotton or suede and filled with rice, sand or some other filler, for use in [[hackeysack]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|small ball for hackeysack}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|footbag}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|jaca}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To play [[hackeysack]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to play hackeysack}}
* Finnish: [[pelata]] [[footbag|footbagia]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Falconry]]

[[cy:hack]]
[[de:hack]]
[[et:hack]]
[[el:hack]]
[[es:hack]]
[[fa:hack]]
[[fr:hack]]
[[ko:hack]]
[[hy:hack]]
[[io:hack]]
[[it:hack]]
[[kn:hack]]
[[ku:hack]]
[[hu:hack]]
[[mg:hack]]
[[ml:hack]]
[[my:hack]]
[[nl:hack]]
[[km:hack]]
[[pl:hack]]
[[pt:hack]]
[[ru:hack]]
[[simple:hack]]
[[fi:hack]]
[[sv:hack]]
[[ta:hack]]
[[te:hack]]
[[chr:hack]]
[[vi:hack]]
[[zh:hack]]