==English==

===Adjective===
'''{{en-adj|sg=[[half]] and [[half]]|-}}'''

# In equal parts; half
#*'''1789''' {{UK}}, UK Parliament, House of Commons, ''Abridgment of the Minutes of the Evidence Taken Before a Committee of the Whole House: to whom it was referred to consider of the Slave-Trade'', UK Parliament, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC28751368&id=U1cSAAAAIAAJ&pg=RA3-PA61&lpg=RA3-PA61&dq=half-and-half+date:1781-1790&num=100 p.61],
#*:Soon after day-light they have some biscuit, and a glass of inferior spirits and water '''half and half'''.
#*'''1790''' {{UK}}, Edward Kentish ''A Second Essay on Burns, in which an Attempt is Made to Refute the Opinions of Mr. Earle and Sir W. Farquhar...<small>[title stretches to 86 words]</small>'', E. Walker, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC14760990&id=I1eQngSVqWsC&pg=RA1-PA67&lpg=RA1-PA67&dq=half-and-half+date:1791-1800&num=100 p.67],
#*: On the following morning...in case of thirst he was to have a glass of port wine, or wine and water, '''half and half'''.
#*'''2006''' {{US}}, Leslie C Stewart, ''Dreams of Healing: A Journey into Unconscious Psyche'', Lulu Press, Inc., ISBN 1411698916, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1411698916&id=W4Jj2Ra2gUgC&pg=PA75&lpg=PA75&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=ijILPpantZT16WVbu4sTNltDxOk p.75],
#*:The area feels like a '''half and half''' mix of west coast and Cape Cod oceanside landscapes.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# In equal parts; half
#*'''1735''' {{UK}}, S. W., ''A general collection of Treatys, Manifesto's, Contracts of Marriage, Renunciations, and other Publick Papers, from the Year 1495, to the Year 1712. Vol. II...The Second Edition'', J. J. and P. Knapton [etc.], [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC15292587&id=U8nYFSTQhXcC&pg=RA1-PA198&lpg=RA1-PA198&dq=half-and-half+date:1720-1740&num=100 p.198],
#*:The Charges for maintaining the Fortress and Garrison of ''Palicate'' shall be return'd and pay'd...'''half and half''' by the two Companies, and not by Duties upon Merchandizes.
#*'''1762''' {{UK}}, Henry, Earl of Pembroke, ''A Method of Breaking Horses and Teaching Soldiers to Ride, Designed for the Use of the Army, The Second Edition, Revised and corrected, with Additions'', [http://books.google.com/books?vid=0H5tUSFzK7ko8fZu&id=VW8FAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA116&lpg=PA116&dq=half-and-half+date:1761-1770&num=100#PPA116,M1 p.116],
#*:Good and clean straw, is a very wholesome and excellent food, if it is ricked up with the hay, ('''half and half''' in weight) it mixes well with it, partakes of it's flavour, and does exceedingly well.
#*'''2006''' {{UK}}, Lia Leendertz, Will Sibley, ''The Half Hour Allotment'', frances lincoln ltd, ISBN 0711226059, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0711226059&id=hsv0B0up2ugC&printsec=frontcover&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100#PPA23,M1 p.23],
#*:First, you could share a full plot with a friend, '''half and half'''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Half one thing and half another.
#*'''1755''' {{UK}}, John Muller, ''A Treatise Containing the Practical Part of Fortification: In Four Parts'', A. Millar, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=0jYkvhKtBTYv4E07PC&id=i8gk6KM_q5cC&pg=RA10-PA115&lpg=RA10-PA115&dq=half-and-half+date:1741-1760&num=100 p.115],
#*: These ingredients are mixt with lime instead of sand in a due proportion, which is about '''half and half'''.
#*'''1808''' {{UK}}, John Burgoyne, ''The Lord of the Manor'', read in ''The Dramatic and Poetical Works of the Late Lieut. Gen. J. Burgoyne: to which is prefixed, Memoirs of the Author. Vol. 1'', Scatcherd and Letterman, et al., [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC07611907&id=hZEdAAAAMAAJ&pg=RA2-PA210&lpg=RA2-PA210&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:1801-1810&num=100#PRA2-PA210,M1 p.210],
#*:Those that are fit for use...cannot be afforded for less than ten pounds a-piece—we have an inferior sort that we sell by the hundred—I'll take '''half and half''', says my employer!
#*'''2006''' {{US}}, "Ellie" quoted in Sharon Graham Davies, ''Thinking of Gender in a Holistic Sense: Understandings of Gender in Sulawesi, Indonesia'', read in ''Gender and the Local-Global Nexus: Theory, Research, and Action'', Vasilikie Demos & Marcia Texler Segal (editors), Elsevier, ISBN 0762313129, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0762313129&id=41J-OKr8UkQC&pg=RA1-PA12&lpg=RA1-PA12&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=jWclQ9kzq0AIotwGUYSAtEERsuU p.12],
#*: So I guess it must be '''half and half''', both factors have to be there.
# {{US}} A mixture of [[cream]] and [[milk]] often used in [[coffee]], defined by the US Food and Drug Administration to contain between 10.5% and 18% milk fat.
#*'''1915''' {{US}}, American Academy of Medicine, ''Industrial medicine'', American Academy of Medicine Press, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=08Dswk4I82mcZZxaHBTS&id=7wd0Vd94zQIC&q=%22half+and+half%22+milk+OR+cream+OR+coffee+date:1911-1920&dq=%22half+and+half%22+milk+OR+cream+OR+coffee+date:1911-1920&num=100&pgis=1 p.71],
#*:Very often, the writer has stepped into a lunch room for a bowl of "'''half-and-half'''" milk and cream with bread.
#*'''1961''' {{US}}, United States Supreme Court, ''United States Reports: Cases Adjudged in the Supreme Court'', U.S. Govt. Printing Office, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC04384322&id=ny_KFJjDNmUC&pg=RA1-PA79&lpg=RA1-PA79&dq=half-and-half+date:1791-1800&num=100#PRA1-PA79,M1 p.79],
#*:Milk that is used for cream (sweet and sour), '''half and half''', or milk drinks containing less than 3% or more than 5% butterfat is classified in Class II.
#*'''1968''' {{US}}, Thomas E. Furia, ''CRC Handbook of Food Additives'', Chemical Rubber Co, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC00350361&id=yUmwSDxBMogC&q=%22half+and+half%22+milk+OR+cream+OR+coffee+date:1961-1970&dq=%22half+and+half%22+milk+OR+cream+OR+coffee+date:1961-1970&num=100&pgis=1 p.91],
#*:Butter-oil, cream, '''half and half''', condensed milk, reconstituted whole milk powder or fresh milk are suitable substrates.
#*'''2006''' {{italbrac|Canada}}, Kendra Bailey Morris, ''White Trash Gatherings: From-Scratch Cooking for Down-Home Entertaining'', Ten Speed Press, ISBN 1580087744, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1580087744&id=Q6Nzs4NNpTcC&pg=RA5-PA142&lpg=RA5-PA142&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=7ErGLELvxcXEPECAf2qWMQgh_Mo p.142],
#*:Heat your soup, sour cream, and '''half and half''' in a saucepan.
# A mixture of two [[alcoholic]] [[beverage]]s, most frequently those [[brew#Verb|brewed]] from [[malt]], such as [[porter]] and [[ale]] or [[mild]] and [[bitter]] [[beer]]s, in about equal parts; also used for equal parts of an alcoholic beverage and [[water]].
#*'''1791''' {{UK}}, William Creech, ''Edinburgh Fugitive Pieces'', W. Creech and T. Cadell, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC23646488&id=64xZvKwveSUC&pg=PA58&lpg=PA58&dq=half-and-half+date:1791-1800&num=100#PPA58,M1 p.58],
#*:Also that an officer should be appointed to take notice of all dram drinkers, lovers of a frosty nail in the morning, of cauld cocks, Athol brose, old man's milk, '''half and half''', bitters, chearers, doctors, torrie rorries, &c. &c. &c.
#*'''1806''' {{UK}}, Rachel Hunter, Maria Hunter, ''Lady Maclairn, the victim of villany: A novel. In four volumes'', W. Earle and J.W. Hucklebridge, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=0qCYNVBrFmliZSAF&id=yaUBAAAAQAAJ&pg=RA1-PA213&lpg=RA1-PA213&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:1801-1810&num=100 p.213],
#*:I also talked of Jamaica.  Upon this ground, I presume, she called for a glass of rum and water, "'''half and half'''," and drank to all friends there.
#*'''1813''' {{UK}}, John Roby, James Kirke Paulding, Walter Scott, ''Jokeby, a burlesque on Rokeby: A poem in six cantos'', T. Tegg, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC03583425&id=bCMhAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA33&lpg=PA33&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:1811-1820&num=100 p.33],
#*:Sweet beverage! thou art the staff/Of man, who, midst his toils and pains,/Recovers strength from '''''half and half'''''—/From ''Whitbread's'' malt new vigor gains.
#*'''2006''' {{US}}, C. Buddy Carls, ''The Tent'', Lulu Press, Inc., ISBN 1411698193, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1411698193&id=lpcgLxxb9zYC&pg=PA242&lpg=PA242&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=OuvjHtt5s9W-H8AJNGv2Tbvr7b4 p.242],
#*:"What kind of beer do you have?" asked Smitty. "Bass, stout, pale ale, porter, black and tan, mild, bitter, '''half and half'''." "What's a ''''half and half''''?" "In beer, it's half mild and half bitter, but if I know you're not a beer drinker, then it's half brandy and half Benedictine," explained McTigue.
# A person of [[mixed race]] or with [[dual nationality]].
#*'''2006''' {{UK}}, Botlhale Tema, ''The People of Welgeval'', New Holland Publishers, ISBN 1770070958, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1770070958&id=r5ealtqUuPIC&pg=PA50&lpg=PA50&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=L3lAVaNbkaAbjm80mIz0nb8ucl4 p.50],
#*:"My friend is different," I said. "Not dark like you and me.  He's like a '''half and half'''...you understand.
#*'''2006''' {{italbrac|Aus}}, Deb Verhoeven, ''Sheep and the Australian Cinema'', Melbourne University Publishing, ISBN 0522852394, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0522852394&id=TmJH1OtpMlUC&pg=PA224&lpg=PA224&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=yGX4xswFCG0_TsiREb9nl7ypj44 p.224],
#*:Hasluck is seeking to establish a difference between a racial notion of 'half-caste' and the idea that culturally a substantial number of Aborigines 'whether full blood or part-coloured, are also '''half and half''''.
#*'''2006''' {{italbrac|Aus}}, Bret Harte, ''A First Family of Tasajara'', ReadHowYouWant.com, ISBN 1425006388, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1425006388&id=x9R724zGrKIC&pg=PA323&lpg=PA323&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=bN-ot-0g2y-crOV8jUYRdN808dM p.323],
#*:"Don Diego Fletcher — Fletcher! Is he a Spaniard, then?" "'''Half and half''', I reckon; he's from the lower country, I believe."
#*'''2006''' {{US}}, Soo im Lee, Stephen Murphy-Shigematsu, Harumi Befu, '''', iUniverse, ISBN 0595362575, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0595362575&id=Nz4PwYOgtzgC&pg=RA1-PA83&lpg=RA1-PA83&dq=%22half+and+half%22+date:2006-2007&num=100&sig=7QbyWF-z7M0nbXCvKHIDeDWHX-I p.83],
#*:A number of dual nationals with whom I have spoken do identify with the concept of being "both," rather than "'''half and half'''," for example, insisting that they are 100% Japanese and 100% American.

===References===
* Cream & milk sense legally defined in [http://vm.cfsan.fda.gov/~lrd/FCF131.html US government regulations], CFR Title 21, Volume 2, (21CFR131.180), PP 303-304.