==English==

{{rank|mother|often|themselves|268|half|certain|sent|keep}}

===Etymology===
Anglo-Saxon ''[[healf]]'', ''half'' ('half'); as a noun, 'half', 'side', 'part'; akin to Old Saxon, Old Friesian, and Dutch ''[[half#Dutch|half]]'', German ''[[halb]]'', Swedish ''[[half#Swedish|half]]'', Danish ''[[halv]]'', Icelandic ''[[hālfr]]'' and Gothic [[𐌷𐌰𐌻𐌱𐍃]] (halbs). Compare ''[[halve]]'', ''[[behalf]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*(''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{IPA|/hɑːf/}}, {{SAMPA|/hA:f/}}
*(''[[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/hæf/}}, {{SAMPA|/h{f/}}
*{{audio|en-us-half.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːf|-ɑːf]]

===Adjective===
'''half'''

# Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view
#:'''Note:''' The adjective and noun are often united to form a compound.
# Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect; as, a half dream; half knowledge.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Assumed from thence a half consent. —[[Tennyson]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|consisting of a half}}
*Czech: [[půl]]
*German: [[halb]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[пол-]] (pol-), [[полу-]] (polu-)
*Slovene: [[pol]]
*Swahili: [[nusu]]
*Finnish: [[puoli]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half}}
*German: [[halb]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
<!--Note: many of these are or may be hyphenated-->
*[[half ape]]<!-- (''zoölogy'') a lemur-->
*[[half back]]<!-- (''football'') See under 2d [[back]]-->
*[[half bent]]<!-- the first notch, for the [[sear point]] to enter, in the tumbler of a gunlock; the halfcock notch-->
*[[half binding]]<!-- a style of bookbinding in which only the back and corners are in leather-->
*[[half boarder]]<!-- one who boards in part; specifically, a scholar at a boarding school who takes dinner only-->
*[[half-breadth plan]]<!-- (''shipbuilding'') a horizontal plan of the half a vessel, divided lengthwise, showing the lines-->
*[[half cadence]]<!-- (''music'') a cadence on the dominant-->
*[[half cap]]<!-- (''obsolete'') a slight salute with the cap. — Shakespeare-->
*[[half cock]]<!-- the position of the cock of a gun when retained by the first notch-->
*[[half cocked]]<!-- or '''halfcocked:''' unprepared, lacking forethought; — as in go off '''half cocked'''-->
*[[half hitch]]<!-- a sailor’s knot in a rope; half of a clove hitch-->
*[[half hose]]<!-- short stockings; socks-->
*[[half-life]]<!-- The time taken for a given radioactive element to decay to half its number.-->
*[[Half Life]]<!-- A computer game-->
*[[half measure]]<!-- an imperfect or weak line of action-->
*[[half note]]<!-- (''music'') a minim, one half of a semibreve-->
*[[half page]]<!-- half of a single page, of a book.-->
*[[half pay]]<!-- half of the wages or salary; reduced pay; as, an officer on '''half pay'''-->
*[[half price]]<!-- half the ordinary price; or a price much reduced-->
*[[half round]]<!--
**(''architecture'') A molding of semicircular section
**(''mechanical'') Having one side flat and the other rounded; — said of a file-->
*[[half shift]]<!-- (''music'') a position of the hand, between the open position and the first shift, in playing on the violin and kindred instruments. See [[shift]]-->
*[[half step]]<!-- (''music'') a semitone; the smallest difference of pitch or interval, used in music-->
*[[half tide]]<!-- the time or state of the tide equally distant from ebb and flood-->
*[[half time]]<!-- half the ordinary time for work or attendance; as, the half-time system-->
*[[half tint]]<!-- (''fine arts'') a middle or intermediate tint, as in drawing or painting. See [[demitint]]-->
*[[half truth]]<!-- a statement only partially true, or which gives only a part of the truth. — [[Mrs. Browning]]-->
*[[half year]]<!-- the space of six months; one term of a school when there are two terms in a year.-->

===Adverb===
'''half'''

# In an equal part or degree; in some part approximating a half; partially; imperfectly; as, '''half'''-colored, '''half''' done, '''half'''-hearted, '''half''' persuaded, '''half''' conscious.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Half''' loth and '''half''' consenting. — [[Dryden]]
#:*Their children spoke '''half''' in the speech of Ashdod. — ''Nehemiah 13:24''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[halb]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[почти]] (počtí), [[наполовину]] (napolovínu)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-irreg|halves}}

# [[one]] of [[two]] [[equal]] [[part]]s into which anything may be [[divide]]d, or considered as divided; — sometimes followed by of; as, a '''half''' of an apple.
#:*Not '''half''' his riches known, and yet despised. — [[Milton]]
#:*A friendship so complete Portioned in '''halves''' between us — [[Tennyson]]
# Half of a standard measure; frequently used {{UK}} for half a pint of beer or cider.
#*'''1968''' {{UK}}, John Braine, ''The crying game'', Houghton Mifflin, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC00291981&id=8GYhAAAAMAAJ&q=pint+%22a+half+of+bitter%22+-pint-and-a-half+date:1961-1980&dq=pint+%22a+half+of+bitter%22+-pint-and-a-half+date:1961-1980&num=100&pgis=1 p. 11],
#*:He came back with a pint of Guinness for me and a '''half''' of bitter for Wendy.
#*'''1974''' {{UK}}, James Herriot, ''All Things Bright and Beautiful'', St. Martin's Press, ISBN 0312020309,
#*:I accepted a '''half''' of bitter from him.
#*'''2006''' {{UK}}, Bill Appleton, ''Wide Boy'', Pegasus Elliot Mackenzie, ISBN 1843862530, [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1843862530&id=BK_ZSZW3LVsC&pg=PA168&lpg=PA168&ots=xRJ0vS0R0F&dq=pint+%22a+half+of+lager%22+-pint-and-a-half+date:2000-2007&num=100&sig=CQ4kR-PCwEgrrDmgoq3ipacsvl0 p. 168],
#*:I went to the bar where I bought a pint and two large brandies. ... "Not brandy," she replied, "but I could use a long drink - maybe a '''half''' of lager.
# {{arithmetic}} ('''a half''') The fraction obtained by dividing 1 by 2.
#:''Three-quarters minus a quarter is a half.''
# {{obsolete}} part; side; behalf — [[Wyclif]]
#:*The four '''halves''' of the house — [[Chaucer]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one of two equal parts into which anything may be divided}}
*Albanian: [[gjysmë]] {{f}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[نصف]]}} {{Unicode|(nuʂf)}}
*Breton: [[hanter]] {{m}}
*Bulgarian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Catalan: [[meitat]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[半]] (bàn)
*Croatian: [[polovina]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[helft]]
*Faroese: [[helvt]] {{f}}
*French: [[moitié]] {{f}}
*German: [[Hälfte]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hungarian: [[fél]]
*Italian: [[metà]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hanbún)
*Korean: [[반]] (ban)
*Marathi: [[अर्धा]] (ardhaa)
*Portuguese: [[metade]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[jumătate]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[polovica]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mitad]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[hälft]]
*Yiddish: [[העלפֿט]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fraction}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[نصف]]}} {{Unicode|(nuʂf)}}
*Bulgarian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*French: [[demi]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[metà]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hanbún)
*Korean: [[반]] (ban)
*Portuguese: [[metade]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mitad]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part; side; behalf}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[сторона]] (storoná) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[better half]]
*[[in half]]<!-- (''colloquial'') an expression often used improperly instead of in or into halves; as, to cut in half. — [[Dickens]]-->
*[[in one's half]]<!-- [[on one's half]]: (''obsolete'') in one's behalf; on one's part; or referring to location on the pitch in UK or rugby football-->
*[[cry halves]]<!-- to claim an equal share with another-->
*[[go halves]]<!-- to share equally between two.-->
*[[half and half]]<!--in equal shares; a drink made from equal portions of two others-->
*[[not half]]
*[[not half bad]]
*[[other half]]

===Verb===
'''half'''

# {{transitive}} (''obsolete'') To [[halve]]<!--. — [[Sir H. Wotton]]-->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to halve}}
*Czech: [[půlit]], [[rozpůlit]]
*Finnish: [[puolittaa]], [[panna puoliksi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[делить]] [[пополам]] (delít’ popolám)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Translations to be checked===
{{rfc-level|Translations to be checked at L3+ (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Translations to be checked)}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[hanner]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[半]] (bàn)
*{{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[अर्धा]] (ardhaa)

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

----

==German==

===Verb form===
'''half'''

# ''past tense of [[helfen]]''

[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]
[[Category:German verb forms]]

[[fr:half]]
[[io:half]]
[[id:half]]
[[it:half]]
[[hu:half]]
[[nl:half]]
[[ja:half]]
[[ru:half]]
[[fi:half]]
[[ta:half]]
[[vi:half]]
[[tr:half]]
[[zh:half]]