==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[halleluiah]]<!--I don't know this one...--><!-- It's older, I think, and more phonetic --dmh -->
* [[alleluia]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|he}} {{term|הללויה|sc=Hebr||Praise [[Yah]]!|lang=he}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˌhælɪˈluːjə/}}; {{SAMPA|/%h{l.I"lu:.j@/}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# An [[exclamation]] used in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God.
# A general expression of gratitude or adoration.
#: '''''Hallelujah!''' It’s finally the weekend!''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exclamation to praise God}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|الحمد لله|tr=al-ḥamdu lillaah|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|哈利路亚 |tr=hālìlùyà|sc=Hani}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|haleluja}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|halleluuja}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|halleluja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|alléluia}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ალილუია|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|halleluja}}
* Greek: {{t|el|αλληλούια|tr=alliloúia|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[הללויה]] (hallelúyah)
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hallelúja}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|haleluya}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[alleluia#Interlingua|alleluia]]
* Japanese: {{t|ja| ハレルヤ|tr=hareruya|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|alleluja}}
* Portuguese: [[aleluia]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|аллилуйя}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|aleluja}}
* Slovak: [[aleluja]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aleluya|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|general exclamation of gratitude}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|halleluja}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gott sei Dank}}
* [[Malagasy]]: {{t|mg|aleloia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|aleluja}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aleluya|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t+|fr|alléluia}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[הללויה]] (hallelúyah)
* {{ttbc|is}} [[hallelúja]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[alleluia#Interlingua|alleluia]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[aleluia]]
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[aleluja]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t-|es|aleluya|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A shout of “Hallelujah”.
# {{context|plural}} General praise.

====Quotations====
* So sung they, and the empyrean rung With Hallelujahs. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
* But I reserve my hallelujahs for the St. Louis pork ribs (half slab, $13/ full slab, $18.95) and the baby back ribs ($15.99, half/ $22.95, full), which were just as Smoky said they should be--tenderly succulent, with meat that pulls from the bone with minimal effort, but hasn't lost its texture from overcooking. &mdash; Lorraine Gengo in [http://www.fairfieldweekly.com/gbase/Dining/content?oid=oid:106817 Rib Religion], Fairfield County Weekly, April 7, 2005

====Translations====
{{trans-top|shout of Hallelujah}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|halleluja}}
* German: {{t+|de|Halleluja|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hallelúja|n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aleluya|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|general praise}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ylistys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|felicitación|f}},  {{t|es|congratulación|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[alléluia]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[alleluia#Interlingua|alleluia]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[aleluja]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To cry "hallelujah" in praise.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to cry "Hallelujah"}}
* Indonesian: [[berhaleluya]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Biblical derivations]]

[[de:hallelujah]]
[[et:hallelujah]]
[[fr:hallelujah]]
[[ko:hallelujah]]
[[ka:hallelujah]]
[[my:hallelujah]]
[[pl:hallelujah]]
[[ru:hallelujah]]
[[te:hallelujah]]
[[vi:hallelujah]]
[[zh:hallelujah]]