==English==

===Etymology 1===
Variant of hollo, which was a variant of holla from Middle French hola (equivalent to ''ho'' ahoy + ''la'' there).
See also: [[holler]].

===Etymology 2===
From the [[Hungarian]] ''"hallom"'', which means ''"I do hear you"''. When the first long-distance telephone connection was tested by [[w:Tivadar Puskás|Tivadar Puskás]] and [[w:Thomas Alva Edison|Edison]] on April 2, 1878, Puskás repeatedly and vehemently used the word "hallom" to respond. It became an "insider phrase" for telephone exchange testers, and later used in the USA to respond to telephone calls, from where it started to spread (and ultimately it have reached Hungary again, where it is used as well).

====Interjection====
{{en-intj}}

# A variant of '''[[hello]]'''
# A cry of [[surprise]].
#* '''1890,''' [[w:Sir Arthur Conan Doyle|Sir Arthur Conan Doyle]], ''[[s:The Sign of the Four|The Sign of the Four]]'',
#*: It sounds like a sum in the rule of three. The answer should give us the — But '''hallo'''! here are the accredited representatives of the law.
[[Category:English interjections]]

====Noun====
'''hallo'''

# The cry "hallo!"
# A shout of exultation.
[[Category:English nouns]]
===Intransitive verb===
{{rfc-trverb|Intransitive verb}}
'''hallo'''

# To shout, or to call with a loud voice.

===Transitive verb===
'''hallo'''

# To chase while shouting "hallo!"
# To cry "hallo" to someone.
# To shout something.
[[Category:English verbs]]
====See also====
* [[:Category:Greetings]]

----

==Dutch==

===Interjection===
'''hallo'''

# [[hello]] (a general greeting used when meeting somebody)

----

==Estonian==

===Interjection===
'''hallo'''

# [[hello]] (a greeting usually used to answer the telephone)

----

==German==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈhaloː/ ''or'' /haˈloː/}}

===Interjection===
'''hallo'''

# [[hello]] (a general greeting used when meeting somebody)
[[Category:de:Greetings]]
----

==Interlingua==

===Interjection===
'''hallo'''

# [[hello]] (a greeting usually used to answer the telephone or when meeting somebody)

[[de:hallo]]
[[fa:hallo]]
[[fr:hallo]]
[[ko:hallo]]
[[io:hallo]]
[[id:hallo]]
[[it:hallo]]
[[nl:hallo]]
[[no:hallo]]
[[pl:hallo]]
[[pt:hallo]]
[[sv:hallo]]
[[vi:hallo]]
[[zh:hallo]]