==English==

===Etymology 1===
Contracted from [[hanaper]]

====Noun====
'''hamper'''[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]

# A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as,
#* a '''hamper''' of wine;
#* a clothes '''hamper''';
#* an oyster '''hamper''', which contains two bushels.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles}}
*Finnish: [[kori]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[mand]] ''m'', [[wasmand]] ''m'''
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[cesta]] ''f'', [[canasta]] ''f'''
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{rfc-trverb|Transitive verb}}
'''to hamper''' (''Imperfect and past participle:'' '''hampered''', ''present participle:'' '''hampering''')

# To put in a hamper.

===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[hamperen]]'', ''[[hampren]]'', probably of the same origin as English ''[[hamble]]''

===Transitive verb===
'''to hamper''' (''Imperfect and past participle:'' '''hampered''', ''present participle:'' '''hampering''')

# To put a hamper or [[fetter]] on; to [[shackle]]; to [[ensnare]]; to [[inveigle]]; hence, to [[impede]] in motion or progress; to [[embarrass]]; to [[encumber]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Hampered''' nerves. - [[Blackmore]]
#:*A lion '''hampered''' in a net. - [[L'Estrange]]
#:*They ''hamper''' and entangle our souls. - [[Tillotson]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To put a hamper or fetter on; to shackle; to ensnare; to inveigle}}
*Dutch: [[blokkeren]]
*Finnish: [[haitata]], [[vaikeuttaa]], [[estää]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[estorbar]], [[obstaculizar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
'''hamper'''

# A [[shackle]]; a [[fetter]]; anything which [[impede]]s. - [[W. Browne]]
# {{nautical}} [[Article]]s [[ordinary|ordinarily]] [[indispensable]], but in the way at certain times. - [[Ham. Nav. Encyc.]]

===Derived expression===
*'''Top hamper''', ''(Nautical):'' unnecessary spars and rigging kept aloft.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A shackle; a fetter; anything which impedes}}
*Finnish: [[kahle]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Articles ordinarily indispensable, but in the way at certain times}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[struikelblok]]? ''n''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[fr:hamper]]
[[io:hamper]]
[[it:hamper]]
[[hu:hamper]]
[[pl:hamper]]
[[vi:hamper]]
[[zh:hamper]]