{{also|Appendix:Variations of "han"}}
==Basque==

===Pronoun===
{{head|eu|pronoun}}

# [[there]]

----

==Catalan==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|an|lang=ca}}

===Verb===
{{head|ca|verb form}}

# {{ca-verb form of|p=3|n=pl|t=pres|m=ind|haver}}

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|hann|lang=non}} (dative {{term|hánum|lang=non}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/han/|[han]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|stem=hann|en|er}}

# [[male]], [[he]]

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=hann|en|er}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|da|pronoun|genitive|hans|accusative|ham}}

# {{personal}} [[he#English|he]]

====See also====
{{Danish personal pronouns}}

----

==Galician==

===Verb===
{{gl-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|haber||lang=gl|3|p|pres|ind}}

----

==Japanese==

===Proper noun===
{{ja-pos|r|proper|kanji=藩|hira=はん}}

# A feudal clan of pre-Meiji Japan.

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
'''han'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|hān}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|hán}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|hǎn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|hàn}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology===
Contracted infinitive and plural present of {{term|haven|lang=enm}}.

===Verb===
{{head|enm|verb form}}

# {{transitive|lang=enm}} To [[have]]; [[have]] - ''[[w:Piers Plowman|Piers Plowman]]''.
#* Him thanken all, and thus they '''han''' an end - [[w:Geoffrey Chaucer|Geoffrey Chaucer]]

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɑn/|lang=no}}
* {{homophones|hann|hand|lang=no}}
* {{rhymes|ɑn|lang=no}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|nb|pronoun}}

# [[he]] (personal pronoun "he"), [[him]]

====Usage notes====
Traditionally, the word for '''him''' in bokmål is '''ham'''. However, as most people use only '''han''' in regular conversations, it used to be a somewhat common mistake when writing bokmål. It is now allowed to use either '''han''' and '''ham''' as the object form. Additionally, nynorsk uses almost exclusively '''han''' as both subject and object form, though '''honom''' is a rarely used correct object form. '''Ham''' is not an allowed word in nynorsk.

===See also===
{{nb-pers-pron}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Pronoun===
{{head|nn|pronoun}}

# [[he]] (personal pronoun "he"), [[him]]

====Usage notes====
Traditionally, the word for '''him''' in bokmål is '''ham'''. However, as most people use only '''han''' in regular conversations, it used to be a somewhat common mistake when writing bokmål. It is now allowed to use either '''han''' and '''ham''' as the object form. Additionally, nynorsk uses almost exclusively '''han''' as both subject and object form, though '''honom''' is a rarely used correct object form. '''Ham''' is not an allowed word in nynorsk.

===See also===
{{nn-pers-pron}}

----

==Old Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|gmq-osw}} {{term|hann|lang=non}}.

===Pronoun===
{{head|gmq-osw|personal pronoun}}

# [[he]]

====Descendants====
* Swedish: {{l|sv|han}}

----

==Rohingya==

===Noun===
{{head|rhg|noun}}

# [[ear]]

----

==Samoan Plantation Pidgin==

===Noun===
'''han'''

# [[arm]]
# [[hand]]

====References====
* Mühlhäusler, Peter (1983). "Samoan Plantation Pidgin English and the origin of New Guinea Pidgin", in Ellen Woolford and William Washabaugh: ''The Social Context of Creolization'', 28–76.

[[Category:Samoan Plantation Pidgin nouns]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ota|sh}} {{term|sc=ota-Arab|خان|tr=han|lang=ota}}, from {{etyl|fa|sh}} {{term|sc=fa-Arab|خانه|tr=khâne||house|lang=fa}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/xâːn/|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=hȃn|r|хан|ха̑н}}

# [[inn]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|hȃn|hánovi
|hana|hanova
|hanu|hanovima
|han|hanove
|hane|hanovi
|hanu|hanovima
|hanom|hanovima
}}

----

==Spanish==

===Verb===
{{es-verb-form|haber}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=er|mood=indicative|tense=present|pers=2|formal=yes|number=plural|haber}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=er|mood=indicative|tense=present|pers=3|number=plural|haber}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/han/|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-han.ogg|audio}}
* {{homophones|hann|lang=sv}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|sv|pronoun}}

# [[he]], the third person singular, masculine, nominative case.
# {{archaic}} or {{dialect}} [[him]] (in standard Swedish, this is [[honom]])
#: ''jag såg '''han''''' or ''ja' såg<b>'en</b>'' (standard Swedish: ''jag såg honom'')
#:: I saw him

====Declension====
{{sv-decl-ppron}}

----

==Tok Pisin==
===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|tpi}} {{term|hand}}

===Noun===
{{head|tpi|noun}}

# [[hand]]
# [[arm]]
# [[foreleg]] (of an animal)
# [[wing]] (of a bird)
# [[branch]] (of a tree)
# branch (figurative)

====Derived terms====
* [[hanwara]]

----

==Turkish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/han/|lang=tr}}

===Noun===
{{head|tr|noun}}

# [[khan]]
# [[inn]] (for caravans)

[[cs:han]]
[[da:han]]
[[de:han]]
[[et:han]]
[[el:han]]
[[es:han]]
[[fr:han]]
[[ko:han]]
[[hr:han]]
[[io:han]]
[[it:han]]
[[ka:han]]
[[ku:han]]
[[ky:han]]
[[lb:han]]
[[lt:han]]
[[li:han]]
[[hu:han]]
[[mg:han]]
[[fj:han]]
[[nl:han]]
[[no:han]]
[[uz:han]]
[[tpi:han]]
[[pl:han]]
[[pt:han]]
[[ro:han]]
[[ru:han]]
[[fi:han]]
[[sv:han]]
[[tr:han]]
[[vi:han]]
[[vo:han]]
[[wa:han]]
[[zh:han]]