==English==

===Etymology===
1814, from {{af|en|hand|book}}, or perhaps a reintroduction of {{bor|en|enm|hond book}}, {{m|enm|hondebooke}}, from {{der|en|ang|handbōc|t=handbook}}, or a {{calque|en|de|Handbuch|t=handbook|nocap=y}}. Compare {{cog|nl|handboek}}, {{cog|da|håndbog}}, {{cog|sv|handbok}}.

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A topically organized book of [[reference]] on a certain field of knowledge, regardless of size.
# {{lb|en|US|gambling}} A place where [[illicit]] [[bet]]s can be placed.
#* '''1916''', U.S. Congress. Senate. Committee on interstate commerce, ''Prevention of Transmission of Race-gambling Bets'' (page 23)
#*: The extent of the business done in this line is not understood by those who have not looked into it. In New York there are 50 pool rooms and 500 '''handbooks'''; in East St. Louis, 20 '''handbooks'''; in Chicago, 5 pool rooms and 200 '''handbooks'''; {{...}}
#* '''1961''', United States. Congress. Senate. Committee on Government Operations. Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, ''Gambling and Organized Crime: Hearings''
#*: Persons subject to his rule can be found operating, in addition to the wire service, wire service relays, '''handbooks''', gambling houses, prostitution establishments, coin-operated device companies, bars, restaurants, night clubs, motels, {{...}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|manual}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a book of reference}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ձեռնարկ}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|eskuliburu}}, {{t|eu|gidaliburu}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|даве́днік|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|справочник|m}}, {{t+|bg|наръчник|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|手冊|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|手册|tr=shǒucè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|příručka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handboek|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|manlibro}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsikirja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|manuel|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handbuch|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εγχειρίδιο|n}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἐγχειρίδιον|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סֵפֶר עֵזֶר|m|tr=séfer 'ézer}}, {{t|he|סֵפֶר כִּיס|m|tr=séfer kís}}, {{t|he|ספר שימוש|m|tr=séfer shimúsh|alt=ספר שימוש \ סֵפֶר שִׁמּוּשׁ}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|लघु ग्रंथ|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kézikönyv}}, {{t+|hu|segédkönyv}}, {{t+|hu|tankönyv}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|handbók|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|buku pegangan}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|manuale|m}}, {{t+|it|guida|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|便覧|tr=べんらん, benran|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|ハンドブック|tr=handobukku|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|手帳|tr=てちょう, techō|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|手帖|tr=てちょう, techō|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|案内書|tr=あんないしょ, annaisho|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|편람}}, {{t+|ko|안내서}}, {{t|ko|핸드북}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|rokasgrāmata|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|при́рачник|m}}, {{t|mk|у́патство|n}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|buku panduan}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pukapuka aratohu}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|håndbok|m|f}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|handbōc|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|podręcznik|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|manual|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|manual|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спра́вочник|m}}, {{t+|ru|посо́бие|n}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|leabhar-làimhe|m}}
* Sindhi: {{t+|sd|دَستِينامو|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|manual|m}}, {{t+|es|prontuario|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|handbok|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|dalaklat}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|довідни́к|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|sổ tay}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|llawlyfr|m}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|hânboek|n}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|האַנטבוך|n}}, {{t|yi|האַנטביכל|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=abdhknoo|book hand}}

[[Category:en:Reference works]]