==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|hand|some}}, compare {{etyl|nl|-}} handzaam.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈhænsəm/}}
* {{audio|en-us-handsome.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-handsome.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{hyphenation|hand|some}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|'''more handsome''' or '''[[handsomer]]'''|'''most handsome''' or '''[[handsomest]]'''}}

# {{obsolete}} Dexterous; skillful; handy; ready; convenient; -- applied to things as persons.
#:* That they [engines of war] be both easy to be carried and '''handsome''' to be moved and turned about. - Robynson (Utopia)
#:* For a thief it is so '''handsome''' as it may seem it was first invented for him. - [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]]
# {{context|of a man}} Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive.
#: a '''handsome''' man; a '''handsome''' garment, house, tree, horse.
# {{context|of a woman}} [[striking|Striking]], [[impressive]] and [[elegant]]ly [[proportion]]ed, though not typically [[beautiful]].
# Suitable or fit in action; marked with propriety and ease; graceful; [[becoming]]; appropriate.
#: ''a '''handsome''' style, etc.''
#:* Easiness and '''handsome''' address in writing. - Felton
# [[evince|Evincing]] a becoming generosity or nobleness of character; liberal; generous.
#:* '''Handsome''' is as '''handsome''' does. - Old Proverb
# Ample; moderately large.
#:* He . . . accumulated a '''handsome''' sum of money. - V. Knox
# Having a good appearance
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=November 5
|author=Phil Dawkes
|title=QPR   2 - 3   Man City
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15503963.stm
|page=
|passage=City have lapped up the plaudits this season for a series of '''handsome''' wins but manager Roberto Mancini has demanded that his side also learn to grind out results when they do not play well. He now has an example to point to.}}

====Derived terms====
* to do the handsome thing

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|agreeable, attractive, pleasing}} [[pretty]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|dexterous; skillful}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|scitulus}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|hábil}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|abil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of man: agreeable to the eye or to correct taste}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|جميل|tr=jamiil}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սիրուն|tr=sirun}},  {{t-|hy|գեղեցիկ|tr=geġec’ik}}
* Aromanian: {{t+|rup|mushat}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ချော|tr=chaw:|sc=Mymr}}
* Chinese:
** Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|帥|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|帅|tr=shuài|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|英俊|tr=yīngjùn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pohledný|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|knap}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|komea}}, {{t+|fi|kaunis}}
* French: {{t+|fr|beau}}
* German: {{t+|de|hübsch}}, {{t+|de|stattlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ωραίος|tr=oraios|sc=Grek}}
* Haitian Creole: {{tø|ht|bèl}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|טוב מראה|tr=tov mareh}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|ख़ूबसूरत|tr=xūbsūrat|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|jóképű}},  {{t-|hu|jóvágású}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|ganteng}}, {{t+|id|tampan}}
* Interlingua: [[bel]], [[belle]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|bello}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|ハンサム|alt=ハンサムな|tr=hansamu-na}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[قۆز]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|pulchrum}}, {{t-|la|scitulus}}
* Malayalam: {{t-|ml|സുന്ദരന്‍|tr=sundaran|sc=Mlym}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|pen}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|خوش‌تیپ|tr=xoš-tip|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|piękny}}, {{t+|pl|przystojny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bonito}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|frumos}}, {{t-|ro|arătos}}, {{t-|ro|chipeș}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|красивый|tr=krasívyj}}
* Scots: {{tø|sco|braw}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|eireachdail}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apuesto}}, {{t+|es|guapo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stilig}}
* Tagalog: {{t-|tl|guwapo}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yakışıklı}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|خوبصورت|tr=xūbsūrat|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|golygus}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|marked with propriety and ease}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|generous}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|moderately large}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|handsom|ed}}

# {{transitive|obsolete}} To render handsome.

[[Category:en:Appearance]]

[[ar:handsome]]
[[cy:handsome]]
[[et:handsome]]
[[es:handsome]]
[[eu:handsome]]
[[fr:handsome]]
[[ko:handsome]]
[[hr:handsome]]
[[io:handsome]]
[[id:handsome]]
[[zu:handsome]]
[[it:handsome]]
[[kn:handsome]]
[[ku:handsome]]
[[lt:handsome]]
[[li:handsome]]
[[hu:handsome]]
[[mg:handsome]]
[[ml:handsome]]
[[my:handsome]]
[[fj:handsome]]
[[ps:handsome]]
[[pl:handsome]]
[[ro:handsome]]
[[ru:handsome]]
[[sm:handsome]]
[[fi:handsome]]
[[sv:handsome]]
[[ta:handsome]]
[[te:handsome]]
[[th:handsome]]
[[vi:handsome]]
[[zh:handsome]]