{{wikipedia|Handle (grip)|mul=Handle (mathematics)}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} ''[[handlen]]'', {{etyl|ang}} ''[[handian]]''; akin to Dutch {{term|handelen||to trade}}, German ''[[handeln]]''.  See [[hand]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈhæn.dl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-handle.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ændəl}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A part of an object which is held in the hand when used or moved, as the [[haft]] of a sword, the [[knob]] of a door, the [[bail]] of a kettle, etc.
# That of which use is made; an [[instrument]] for effecting a purpose; a [[tool]].
# {{gambling}} The [[gross]] amount of [[wagering]] within a given period of time or for a given event at one of more establishments.
#: ''The daily '''handle''' of a Las Vegas casino is typically millions of dollars.''
# {{topology}} A [[topological space]] [[homeomorphic]] to a [[ball]] but viewed as a [[product]] of two lower[[-dimensional]] balls.
# {{slang}} A nickname or [[pseudonym]].
# {{AU | NZ}} A 10 fl oz (285 ml) glass of beer in the Northern Territory. See also [[pot]], [[middy]] for other regional variations.
# {{computing}} A [[reference]] to an object or structure that can be stored in a [[variable]].
#: ''This article describes how to find the module name from the '''window handle'''.''

====Derived terms====
* [[give a handle]] <!-- to furnish an occasion or means -->
* [[handlebar]], [[handlebars]]
* [[handlebody]]
* [[handleless]]
* [[love handle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|part of an object which is held in the hand when used or moved}}
* Chinese: [[句柄]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rukojeť|f}}, {{t-|cs|držadlo|n}}
* Danish: {{t|da|håndtag|n}}
* Dutch: [[handvat]], [[handgreep]], [[hengsel]] {{n}}, [[heft]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kädensija}}, {{t+|fi|kahva}}, {{t-|fi|otin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|anse|f}}, {{t+|fr|poignée|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Griff|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|fogó}},  {{t|hu|nyél}},  {{t+|hu|fül}},  {{t|hu|markolat}}
* Japanese: [[ハンドル]]
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[ده‌سک]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|рачка|f|tr=ráčka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|дршка|f|tr=d'rška|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|држач|m|tr=d'ržač|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|håndtak|n}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|hæft|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: [[rączka]] {{f}}, (''of a door'') [[klamka]] {{f}}, (''knob'') [[gałka]] {{f}}, [[uchwyt]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|рукоятка|f|tr=rukojátka|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cas|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: [[asa]] {{f}}, [[mango]] {{m}}, [[manija]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|handtag}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that of which use is made}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väline}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|money taken in by a business}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vaihto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|topological space}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nickname}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|lempinimi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|10 fl oz glass of beer}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|handles|handling|handled}}

# {{intransitive}} To use the hands.
#:* They have hands, but they '''handle''' not - ''Psalm 115:7
# To touch; to feel with the hand.
#:* '''Handle''' me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh - ''Luke 24:39''
# To use or hold with the hand.
#:* About his altar, '''handling''' holy things - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
# To manage in using, as a spade or a musket; to wield; often, to manage skillfully.
#:* That fellow '''handles''' his bow like a crowkeeper - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, IV-vi
# To accustom to the hand; to work upon, or take care of, with the hands.
#:* The hardness of the winters forces the breeders to house and '''handle''' their colts six months every year - [[Sir W. Temple]]
# To receive and transfer; to have pass through one's hands; hence, to buy and sell; as, a merchant '''handles''' a variety of goods, or a large stock
# To deal with; to make a business of.
#:* They that '''handle''' the law knew me not - ''Jeremiah, 2:8
# To treat; to use, well or ill.
#:* How wert thou '''handled''' being prisoner - Shakespeare, ''Henry VI, Part I, I-iv''
# To manage; to control; to practice skill upon.
#:* You shall see how I'll '''handle''' her - Shakespeare, ''Measure for Measure, V-i''
# To use or manage in writing or speaking; to treat, as a theme, an argument, or an objection.
#:* We will '''handle''' what persons are apt to envy others - ''[[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]''

====Synonyms====
{{top2}}
* [[feel]]
* [[finger]]
* [[touch]]
{{mid2}}
* [[deal]]
* [[manage]]
* [[treat]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* to [[handle without gloves]]: {{colloquial}} See under [[glove]]

====Related terms====
* [[hand]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to use the hands}}
* Finnish: [[käsitellä]], [[käyttää]] [[käsi|käsiä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Serbo-Croatian]]: {{t|sh|rukovati}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to feel with the hand}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kosketella}}, {{t+|fi|tunnustella}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|напипува|tr=napípuva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}},  {{t|mk|нафаќа|tr=náfaḱa|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to use or hold with the hand}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|ракува|tr=rákuva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to manage skillfully}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gérer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|ракува|tr=rákuva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|handskas med}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to take care of, with the hands}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hoitaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|ракува|tr=rákuva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to receive and transfer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|врачува|tr=vráčuva|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to deal with; to make a business of}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|omgaan}}
* Finnish: [[käydä]] [[kauppa|kauppaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: s'[[occuper]] de
* Hebrew: {{t|he|טיפל|alt=טיפל (ב־)|tr=tipél (b'-)}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to treat; to use, well or ill}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kohdella}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|behandla}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to manage; to control; to practice skill upon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|раководи|tr=rakóvodi|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to use or manage in writing or speaking}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käsitellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[摸]](1), [[举]](1), [[握]](1), [[操作]](2), [[处理]](3), [[柄]](4), [[句柄]]（[[计算机科学]]）(5)
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[aanraken]] (1), [[bevoelen]] (1), [[hanteren]] (1), [[bedienen]] (2), [[behandelen]] (3,5,6,8), onder handen nemen (3), zich bezighouden met (5), onder handen nemen (7), [[aanpakken]] (7)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[manejar]] (1), [[manusear]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|handla|lang=non}}, {{term|hǫndla|lang=non}}, from {{term|hǫnd||hand|lang=non}}. In the sense ''trade'' influenced by from {{etyl|gml|da}} {{term|handelen|lang=gml}} and {{etyl|de|da}} {{term|handeln|lang=de}}.

===Verb===
{{da-verb|handl|handle|handler|handlede|har|handlet}}

# [[act]] (to do something)
# [[trade]], [[shop]]

[[zh-min-nan:handle]]
[[et:handle]]
[[es:handle]]
[[fa:handle]]
[[fr:handle]]
[[ko:handle]]
[[io:handle]]
[[it:handle]]
[[lt:handle]]
[[hu:handle]]
[[no:handle]]
[[pl:handle]]
[[pt:handle]]
[[ru:handle]]
[[simple:handle]]
[[fi:handle]]
[[ta:handle]]
[[te:handle]]
[[vi:handle]]
[[zh:handle]]