==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|hansel}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|handsell}}, {{m|enm|hanselle}}, from {{inh|en|ang|handselen}} and/or {{der|en|non|handsal|lit=hand-gift}}. Cognate with {{cog|sco|hansel}}, {{cog|da|handsel}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ˈhænd.səl/|/ˈhæn.səl/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-handsel.wav|Audio (UK)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A lucky [[omen]].
# A gift given at [[New Year]], or at the start of some enterprise or new situation, meant to ensure good luck.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Fuller}}
#*: their first good '''handsel''' of breath in this world
#* {{rfdatek|en|Herrick}}
#*: Our present tears here, not our present laughter, / Are but the '''handsels''' of our joys hereafter.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[price|Price]], [[payment]]; especially the first [[installment]] of a series.
#* '''1612''', Joseph Hall, "Contemplations on the Historical Passages of the Old Testament; Book Five, Contemplation 1, The Waters of Marah"
#*: I see the first handsel that God gives them on their voyage to the Land of Promise; thirst and bitterness.
#* {{rfquotek|en|Hall}}
#*: And as I trow, said Sir Sagramore, ye shall have the same '''handsel''' that he had.
#: {{rfquotek|en|Spenser}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Handsel Monday}}, the first Monday of the new year, when '''handsels''' or presents are given to servants, children, etc.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|gift given at New Year}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|uudenvuodenlahja}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|nyårspresent}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|handsels|handselling|pres_ptc2=handseling|handselled|past2=handseled}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To give a handsel to.
#* '''2002''', Joseph O'Connor, ''Star of the Sea'', Vintage 2003, p.55:
#*: She would leave a gold guinea to '''hansel''' the baby.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[inaugurate]] by means of some [[ceremony]]; to [[break in]].
#* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, Folio Society, 2006, vol.1, p.86:
#*: And it is better undecently to faile in '''hanseling''' the nuptiall bed, full of agitation and fits, by waiting for some or other fitter occasion, and more private opportunitie, lest sudden and alarmed, than to fall into a perpetuall miserie, by apprehending an astonishment and desperation of the first refusall.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To use or do for the first time, especially so as to make fortunate or unfortunate; to try experimentally.
#* {{quote-book
|en
|year=1647<!--taken from Wikipedia article on Fuller-->|author={{w|Thomas Fuller}}
|title=[http://books.google.com/books?id=V-MsAAAAYAAJ&dq=hanselled%20thomas%20fuller&pg=PA90#v=onepage&q=hanselled%20thomas%20fuller&f=false Good Thoughts in Worse Times]<!--Pamphlet title, on-line version is a chapter of a collection-->}}
#*: Indeed there is no contrivance of our body, but some good man in Scripture hath '''hanselled''' it with prayer.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1994|author={{w|Michael Brodsky}}|title={{w|*** (novel)|***}}
|isbn=978-1-56858-000-5|page=38|publisher=Four Walls Eight Windows}}
#*: {{...}}the success of the one did not '''handsel''' usurpation{{...}}of the other's.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|unhandseled}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=adehlns|Dahlens|handles}}