==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} ''handfull''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-handful.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|pl2=handsful}}

# As much as the [[hand]] will grasp or contain. - [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]]
# {{obsolete}} A hand's [[breadth]]; four [[inch]]es.
#:''Knap the tongs together about a '''handful''' from the bottom. - [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]
# A small quantity, usually approximately equal to five, the number of fingers on a hand.
#:''This '''handful''' of men were tied to very hard duty. - [[Fuller]]
# Something which can only be [[manage]]d with difficulty.
#:''Those twins are a real '''handful''' to look after.

====Synonyms====
* (content of a hand) [[fistful]]
* [[handbreadth]], [[handsbreadth]]

====Derived terms====
* '''To have one's handful''': ''(Obsolete):'' to have one's hands full; to have all one can do.
*:''They '''had their handful''' to defend themselves from firing. - [[w:Sir Walter Raleigh|Sir Walter Raleigh]]

====Related terms====
* [[handgrip]]
* [[handhold]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|amount held in hand}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrst|f}}
* Dutch: [[handvol]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kourallinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poignée|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χούφτα|f|tr=choúfta|sc=Grek}}
* Indonesian: [[genggam|segenggam]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|грст|m|tr=g'rst|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|håndfull|m}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|garść|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|горсть|f|tr=gorst'|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|пригоршня|f|tr=prigoršn'a|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|manojo|m}}, {{t-|es|puñado|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|handfull|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|breadth of hand}}
* Dutch: [[handbreed]] {{n}}, [[handbreedte]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|manipule}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|грст|m|tr=g'rst|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|small quantity}}
* Dutch: [[handvol]] {{n}}, [[beetje]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kourallinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poignée|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χούφτα|f|tr=choúfta|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: [[genggam|segenggam]]
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|грст|m|tr=g'rst|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|håndfull|m}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|garść|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|горстка|f|tr=górstka|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|handled with difficulty}}
* Dutch: [[handenbinder]] {{m}}, [[lastpost]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: {{t-|no|knyttneve|m}} (breadth of hand)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[puñado]] {{m}}, [[manojo]] {{m}}, [[poca cantidad]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[fr:handful]]
[[ko:handful]]
[[io:handful]]
[[hu:handful]]
[[ja:handful]]
[[pl:handful]]
[[fi:handful]]
[[sv:handful]]
[[ta:handful]]
[[te:handful]]
[[vi:handful]]
[[zh:handful]]