{{also|Handball}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{wikipedia}}
{{compound|hand|ball}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-handball.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A team [[sport]] where two [[teams]] of seven players each (six players and a goalkeeper) pass and bounce a ball trying to throw it in the goal of the opposing team.
# {{countable}} The small rubber [[ball]] used in the sport of handball.
# {{countable|soccer}} The offence of touching the ball with the hands.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=October 29
|author=Neil Johnston
|title=Norwich   3 - 3   Blackburn
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15413656.stm
|page=
|passage=It was a dramatic finish to an absorbing, fast-paced game but Blackburn will be deeply unhappy with referee Anthony Taylor as Nzonzi's '''handball''' was harsh.}}
# {{uncountable|US}} An American sport in which players must, in turn, [[bounce]] a ball off of a [[wall]], taking care not to [[miss]] their turn.
# {{countable|US}} The small rubber [[ball]] used in this sport.
# {{countable|Australian Rules Football}} An act of [[passing]] a [[football]] by holding it with one hand and hitting it with the other.
# {{Irish|uncountable}} An Irish sport, very similar to the American sport, in which players must bounce a ball off a wall.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|team sport involving throwing a ball in the gall}} [[European handball]], [[Olympic handball]], [[team handball]]
* {{sense|American sport involving bouncing a ball off a wall}} [[American handball]]
* {{sense|Irish sport involving bouncing a ball off a wall}} [[Irish handball]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|team sport}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|hendboll|m}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|كرة يد|f|tr=kúrat yad|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|հանդբոլ|tr=handbol}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|гандбол|m|tr=handból|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|rukomet|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|хандбал|m|tr=handbal|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|手球|tr=shǒuqiú|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|rukomet|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|házená|f}}
* Danish: [[håndbold]]
* Dutch: [[handbal]] {{n}}
* Finnish: [[käsipallo]]
* French: {{t+|fr|handball|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|balonmán|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handball|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χειροσφαίριση|f|tr=cheirosfaírisi|sc=Grek}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|हेन्डबोल|tr=hēnḍbōl|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kézilabda}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|handbolti|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|láimhe|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ハンドボール|tr=handobōru|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|送球|tr=そうきゅう, sōkyū|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|송구|tr=song-gu|sc=Kore}} ({{t|ko|送球|sc=Kore}}), {{t|ko|핸드볼|tr=haendeubol|sc=Kore}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|rokasbumba|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|rankinis|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ракомет|m|tr=rákomet}}
* Maltese: [[ħendbol]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|andebol}}
* Romanian: [[handbal]] {{n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гандбол|m|tr=gandból}}, {{t|ru|ручной мяч|m|tr=ručnój mjač|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[рукомет]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[rukomet]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rokomet|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|balonmano|m}}, {{t+|es|handball}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mpira}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|handboll|c}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|hentbol}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|гандбол|m|tr=handból|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|banh để liệng}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ball in team sport}}
* Croatian: [[rukometna lopta]] {{f}}
* Dutch: [[handbal]] {{m}}
* Finnish: [[käsipallo]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kézilabda}}
* Japanese: [[ハンドボール]] (handobōru), [[送球]] ([[そうきゅう]], sōkyū)
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ракометна топка|f|tr=rakométna tópka}}
* Slovene: [[rokometna žoga]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|handboll|c}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|hentbol topu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|football offence}}
* Croatian: [[igranje rukom]] {{n}}
* Dutch: [[hands]] {{n}}, [[handsbal]] {{m}}
* Finnish: [[käsikosketus]], [[käsi]]
* French: {{t+|fr|main|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Handspiel|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kezezés}}
* Japanese: [[ハンド]] (hando), [[ハンドリング]] (handoringu)
* Romanian: [[henț]] {{n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hands|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|American: sport}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|American: ball}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To manually load or unload a [[container]], [[trailer]], or to otherwise [[manually]] move [[bulk goods]] (often on [[pallets]]) from one type of transport [[receptacle]]to another.
# {{soccer}} To illegally touch the ball with the [[hand]] or arm.
#: ''If the defender '''handballs''' in the penalty area, a penalty is awarded.''
# {{context|Australian Rules Football}} To (legally) pass a football by holding it with one hand and hitting it with the other.
#* '''2001''', Jerry R. Thomas, Alan G. Launder, Jack K. Nelson, ''Play Practice: The Games Approach to Teaching and Coaching Sports'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=g1T3SFR6cU8C&pg=PA111&dq=%22handballed%22|%22handballing%22+australian+OR+rules+OR+afl+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kcd1T_jHGcWiiAfCocnuDg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22handballed%22|%22handballing%22%20australian%20OR%20rules%20OR%20afl%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 111],
#*: Meanwhile, you can introduce the basic concept of Aussie rules through a game like lineball, a lead-up game introduced in the basketball section of chapter 10, but with the ball '''handballed''', not thrown.
#* '''2005''', [[w:Andrew McLeod|Andrew McLeod]], Trevor D. Jaques, ''Australian Football: Steps to Success'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=av8cdbCw2G8C&pg=PA9&dq=%22handballed%22|%22handballing%22+australian+OR+rules+OR+afl+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kcd1T_jHGcWiiAfCocnuDg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22handballed%22|%22handballing%22%20australian%20OR%20rules%20OR%20afl%20-intitle%3A%22%22%20-inauthor%3A%22%22&f=false page 9],
#*: An obvious way in which football has changed over the last decade or two has been in the use of '''handballing'''.
#* '''2009''', John P. Devaney, ''Full Points Footy: Encyclopedia of Australian Football Clubs'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=bhgR0V0C4dYC&pg=PA246&dq=%22handballed%22|%22handballing%22+australian+OR+rules+OR+afl+-intitle:%22%22+-inauthor:%22%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2st1T9PQEI2TiAfBron0Dg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q&f=false page 246],
#*: On only 8 occasions during the entire match did players who had marked the ball decide not to walk slowly and purposefully back and take their kick, but instead play on by '''handballing''' to a team mate.
# {{sexuality|slang}} To insert a [[hand]] into someone's [[anus]].

====References====
* [http://www.woodsiderecycling.co.uk/cardboard_recycling/handball_collections/ Handball collections]

[[Category:en:Handball|*]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|handball}}, [[team handball]] (sport)

====Synonyms====
* [[hand#French|hand]]

====Derived terms====
* [[handballeur]]
* [[handballeuse]]

[[Category:fr:Handball]]
[[Category:fr:Sports]]

[[et:handball]]
[[el:handball]]
[[es:handball]]
[[eu:handball]]
[[fr:handball]]
[[ko:handball]]
[[hu:handball]]
[[my:handball]]
[[no:handball]]
[[nn:handball]]
[[pl:handball]]
[[fi:handball]]
[[vi:handball]]
[[zh:handball]]