==English==

===Etymology===
From {{m|en|hand|}} {{m|en|in}} {{m|en|cap|}}, in reference to holding the game stakes in a cap.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Something that prevents, hampers, or hinders.
#: {{ux|en|Age is often a '''handicap'''.}}
#* {{RQ:EHough PrqsPrc|I|0105}}
#*: Captain Edward Carlisle{{...}}felt a curious sensation of helplessness seize upon him as he met her steady gaze,{{nb...}}; he could not tell what this prisoner might do. He cursed the fate which had assigned such a duty, cursed especially that fate which forced a gallant soldier to meet so superb a woman as this under '''handicap''' so hard.
# An [[allowance]] of a certain amount of [[time]] or [[distance]] in starting, granted in a [[race]] (or other contest of skill) to the [[competitor]] possessing [[disadvantage]]s; or an additional [[weight]] or other [[hindrance]] imposed upon the one possessing [[advantage]]s, in order to [[equalize]], as much as possible, the [[chances]] of [[success]].
#: {{ux|en|The older boy won, even though his opponent had been granted a '''handicap''' of five meters.}}
#: {{ux|en|A '''handicap''' in chess often involves removal of the queen's rook.}}
# {{lb|en|sometimes considered offensive}} The [[disadvantage]] itself, in particular [[physical]] or [[mental]] disadvantages of people.
# A [[race]] or similar [[contest]] in which there is an allowance of time, distance, weight, or other advantage, to equalize the chances of the competitors.
# {{lb|en|obsolete|card game}} An old [[card game]], similar to [[lanterloo]].
#* '''1660''', Samuel Pepys
#*: Here some of us fell to '''handicap''', a sport that I never knew before, which was very good.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Benghazi Handicap}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|something that prevents, hampers, or hinders}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|haitta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|obstáculo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|allowance granted in a race to the competitor}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|аванс|m|tr=aváns}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tasoitus}}
* German: {{t+|de|Vorsprung|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|forgjöf|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ハンディキャップ|tr=handikyappu}}, {{t+|ja|ハンデ|tr=hande}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آوانس|tr=âvâns|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|فرجه|tr=forje|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|fory}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vantagem}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|фо́ра|f}}, {{t+|ru|гандика́п|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|försprång}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|disadvantage, in particular physical or mental disadvantages of people}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|handicap|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vamma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|handicap|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Behinderung|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|fötlun|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|障害|tr=shōgai}}, {{t+|ja|ハンディキャップ|tr=handikyappu}}, {{t+|ja|ハンデ|tr=hande}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|장애}}
* Latin: {{t|la|impedimentum|n}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hauātanga}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|upośledzenie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|deficiência|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|недоста́ток|m}}, {{t+|ru|уве́чье|n}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|minusvalía|f}}, {{t|es|discapacidad|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|engel}}, {{t+|tr|özür}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|race}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tasoituskilpailu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|card game}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|handicapp}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[encumber]] with a handicap in any contest.
# {{lb|en|transitive|by extension}} To place at disadvantage.
#: ''The candidate was heavily '''handicapped'''.''
# To estimate betting odds.
#: ''Grandpa Andy would buy the racing form the day ahead of time so he could '''handicap''' the race before he even arrived at the track.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to encumber}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|handicapar}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cis}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place at disadvantage}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|handicapar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to estimate betting odds}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kilema}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Ido: {{t-check|io|handikapo}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English contranyms]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/ˈɦɛn.di.kɛp/}}

===Etymology===
{{bor|nl|en|handicap}}.

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-s|handicapje}}

# {{l|en|disability}}
# {{l|en|handicap}}, {{l|en|disadvantage}}
# {{lb|nl|sports|golf}} {{l|en|handicap}}, measure of {{l|en|ability}}

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# {{lb|fi|anglicism}} {{l|en|handicap}} {{gloss|allowance}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|handicap|||a|i=0}}
{{fi-decl-risti|handicap|||ä|i=0}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|fi|tasoitus}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-asph}} {{IPA|/ɑ̃.di.kap/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[handicap#en|handicap]]
# [[disability]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|handicapé}}

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[#English|handicap]] (disability; horserace)

----

==Portuguese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|han|di|cap|lang=pt}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|pt}} {{m|en|handicap}}.

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|-}}

# [[handicap]], [[disadvantage]]
# [[advantage]]


[[Category:Portuguese borrowed terms]]
[[Category:Portuguese contranyms]]
----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|handicap}}

[[ang:handicap]]
[[ca:handicap]]
[[co:handicap]]
[[da:handicap]]
[[de:handicap]]
[[et:handicap]]
[[el:handicap]]
[[fr:handicap]]
[[gl:handicap]]
[[ko:handicap]]
[[hy:handicap]]
[[io:handicap]]
[[it:handicap]]
[[kn:handicap]]
[[sw:handicap]]
[[ku:handicap]]
[[hu:handicap]]
[[mg:handicap]]
[[ml:handicap]]
[[my:handicap]]
[[nl:handicap]]
[[ja:handicap]]
[[ps:handicap]]
[[pl:handicap]]
[[ro:handicap]]
[[ru:handicap]]
[[simple:handicap]]
[[fi:handicap]]
[[sv:handicap]]
[[ta:handicap]]
[[chr:handicap]]
[[uk:handicap]]
[[vi:handicap]]
[[zh:handicap]]