{{wikipedia}}
{{also|han-geul|Hangeul}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[hangul]]
* [[Hangul]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ko|en}} [[한글]] (hangeul), “Korean script” < Archaic Korean [[한글]] (hangeul) “great script”.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# The phonetic [[alphabet]] used to [[write]] the [[Korean]] [[language]].

====Synonyms====
* [[joseungeul]] (used in North Korea)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Korean phonetic script}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|هانغول|m|tr=hanguul, hanghuul|sc=Arab}}
* Bosnian: [[hangul#Bosnian|hangul]] {{m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|諺文|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|谚文|tr=yànwén|sc=Hani}},  {{t|zh|朝鮮字母|sc=Hani}},  {{t|zh|朝鲜字母|tr=Cháoxiǎn zìmǔ|sc=Hani}},  {{t|zh|韓字|sc=Hani}},  {{t|zh|韩字|tr=hánzì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: [[hangul#Czech|hangul]] {{m}}
* French: {{t|fr|hangeul|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Hangeul|n}},  {{t|de|Hangul|n}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ハングル|tr=hangeru|sc=Jpan}},  {{t|ja|朝鮮文字|tr=ちょうせんもじ, Chōsen moji|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{qualifier|South}} {{t|ko|한글|tr=hangeul|sc=Kore}},  {{qualifier|North}} {{t|ko|조선글|tr=joseongeul|sc=Kore}},  {{qualifier|諺文}} {{t|ko|언문|tr=eonmun|sc=Kore}}
* Polish: [[hangyl]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|хангыль|m|tr=xangýl’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[хангул]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[hangul#Serbian|hangul]] {{m}}
* Turkish: [[hangıl]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Usage notes====
* The spelling [[hangeul]] is from the Korean spelling in the 2000 South Korean Revised transcription. “Hangul” derives from the older [[McCune-Reischauer]] transcription “hangŭl” written without the diacritics: it is the more common English spelling. Within the English Wiktionary, “hangeul” is preferred.

===Dictionary notes===
* '''MSN Encarta Dictionary''' lists only the spellings “Hangul” and “hangul”.
* '''Merriam-Webster Online''' lists only the spelling “hangul” and notes that it is often capitalised.
* '''Oxford English Dictionary''' lists the spellings “hangul” and “hankul”, and has examples with ''hangul, hangŭl,'' and ''Hangul.''

====See also====
* [[jamo]]

[[Category:Dictionary notes]]

----

==Korean==

===Noun===
'''hangeul''' (''[[w:Revised Romanization|Romanization]] of'' [[한글]])

# The Korean character set, including the alphabets or [[w:Jamo|Jamo]] and the syllables composed or stacked therefrom. Those syllables make up the practical character set in everyday computing but for input typing. They are analogous to the traditional [[typesetting]] blocks.

====See also====
* [[hanja]] ([[한자]], [[漢字]])
* [[kwukyel]] ([[구결]], [[口訣]])
* [[joseongeul]] ([[조선글]], [[朝鮮글]])

[[Category:Romanized Korean nouns]]

[[ko:hangeul]]