{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Hang|hāng|háng|hǎng|hàng|häng}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|hăng}}, {{IPA|/hæŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/h{N/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-hang.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|æŋ}}

===Etymology 1===
A fusion of {{etyl|ang}} {{term|hon|hōn|to hang, be hanging|lang=ang}} [intrans.] and {{term|hangian||to hang, cause to hang|lang=ang}} [trans.]; also probably influenced by Old Norse {{term|hengja||suspend|lang=non}} and {{term|hanga||be suspended|lang=non}}; all from {{proto|Germanic|hanhanan}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|keng-|to waver, be in suspense}} (compare Gothic {{term|hahan|lang=got}}, Hittite {{term|gang-||to hang|lang=hit}}, Sanskrit {{term|sankate||wavers|lang=sa}}, Latin {{term|cunctari||to delay|lang=la}})

====Verb====
{{en-verb|hangs|hanging|'''[[hung]]''' or '''[[hanged]]''' ''(mostly archaic and legal – see [[#Usage notes|usage]])''}}

# {{intransitive}} To be or remain [[suspend]]ed.
#: ''The lights '''hung''' from the ceiling.
# {{intransitive}} To [[float]], as if suspended.
#: ''The smoke '''hung''' in the room.
# {{transitive}} To hold or bear in a [[suspended]] or [[inclined]] manner or position instead of erect.
#: ''He '''hung''' his head in shame.
# {{transitive}} To cause (something) to be suspended, as from a [[hook]], [[hanger]]{{,}} or the like.
#: '''''Hang''' those lights from the ceiling.
# {{transitive|legal}} To [[execute]] (someone) by suspension from the neck.
#: ''The culprits were '''hanged''' from the nearest tree.''
# {{intransitive|legal}} To be [[executed]] by [[suspension]] by one's neck from a [[gallows]], a [[tree]], or other raised bar, attached by a [[rope]] tied into a [[noose]].
#: ''You will '''hang''' for this, my friend.
# {{intransitive|informal}} To [[loiter]], [[hang around]], to spend time idly.
#: ''Are you busy, or can you '''hang''' with me?
#: ''I didn't see anything, officer. I was just '''hanging'''.
# {{transitive}} To [[exhibit]] (an object).
# {{transitive}} To [[apply]] (wallpaper or drywall to a wall).
#: ''Let's '''hang''' this cute animal design in the nursery
# {{transitive}} To [[decorate]] (something) with hanging objects.
# {{intransitive|computing}} To stop responding to manual input devices such as keyboard or mouse.
#: ''The computer has '''hung''' again. Not even pressing <nowiki><Ctrl>+<Alt>+<Del></nowiki> works.''
#: ''When I push this button the program '''hangs'''.
# {{transitive|computing}} To [[cause]] (a program or computer) to stop responding.
#: ''The program has a bug that can '''hang''' the system.
# {{transitive|chess}} To cause (a piece) to become vulnerable to capture.
#: ''If you move there, you'll '''hang''' your queen rook.
# {{intransitive|chess}} To be vulnerable to capture.
#: ''In this standard opening position White has to be careful because the pawn on e4 '''hangs'''.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|be or remain suspended}} be [[suspend]]ed, [[dangle]]
* {{sense|float as if suspended}} [[float]], [[hover]]
* {{sense|execute (someone) by suspension from the neck}} [[lynch]], [[string up]]
* {{sense|be executed}} go to the [[gallows]], [[swing]] {{qualifier|informal}}
* {{sense|loiter}} [[hang about]], [[hang around]], [[loiter]]
* {{sense|computing: stop responding}} [[freeze]], [[lock up]]
* {{sense|cause (something) to be suspended}} [[suspend]]
* {{sense|hold or bear in a suspended or inclined manner or position instead of erect}} [[drop]], [[lower]]
* {{sense|to place on a hook}} [[hook]], [[hook up]]
* {{sense|exhibit}} [[exhibit]], [[show]]
* {{sense|apply (wallpaper to a wall)}} [[put up]]
* {{sense|decorate (something) with hanging objects}} [[bedeck]], [[deck]], [[decorate]]
* {{sense|computing: cause (a program or computer) to stop responding}} [[lock up]]
* {{sense|in chess: cause to become vulnerable to capture}}
* {{sense|in chess: be vulnerable to capture}}

=====Usage notes=====
* Formerly, at least through the 16th century, the past tense of ''hang'' was ''[[hanged]]''. This form is retained for the legal senses "to be executed by suspension from the neck" and "to execute by suspension from the neck" and ''[[hung]]'' for all other meanings. However, this rule is not uniformly understood or observed. ''Hung'' is sometimes substituted for ''hanged'', which would be considered inappropriate in legal or other formal writing (for the applicable senses only) or, more rarely, ''vice versa''. See also [[hang#Etymology 1|the etymology]] – in Old English there were separate words for transitive (whence "hanged") and intransitive (whence "hung").
* "Hanged" may sometimes be used as the simple past tense, but "hung" could be taken as the past participle of "hang", though there is no good rationale for this distinction.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''hang'' (verb)}}
* [[hang a left]]
* [[hang a right]]
* [[hang about]]
* [[hang around]]
* [[hang back]]
* [[hangdog]]
* [[hang, draw and quarter]]
* [[hanger]]
* [[hang fire]]
* [[hang-glider]]
* [[hang in]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[hang in the balance]]
* [[hang in there]]
* [[hanging]]
* [[hang it]]
* [[hangman]]
* [[hangnail]]
* [[hang off]]
* [[hang on]]
* [[hang onto]]
* [[hang out]]<!--verb-->
* [[hang out to dry]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[hang-out]], [[hangout]]<!--noun-->
* [[hangover]]
* [[hang ten]]
* [[hang together]]
* [[hang tough]]
* [[hang up]]<!--verb-->
* [[hang-up]], [[hangup]]<!--noun-->
* [[I'll be hanged]]
* [[leave hanging]]
* [[overhang]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|be or remain suspended}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|علق|tr=`allaqa}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|掛|tr=guà|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|viset}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hangen}}, {{t+|nl|ophangen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riippua}}, {{t-|fi|roikkua}}
* French: [[pendre]], être [[suspendu]]
* German: {{t+|de|hängen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lóg}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|pendar|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|pendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|掛ける|tr=kakeru}}
* Portuguese: [[estar]] [[pendurado]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|висеть|tr=visét'}} {{impf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[penniri]], [[pinnuliari]]
* Slovene: [[viseti]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|colgar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hänga}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[వేలాడు]] (vaelaaDu)
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|הענגען|tr=hengen|sc=Hebr|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|float as if suspended}}
* Dutch: (in de lucht) [[hangen]], [[zweven]]
* French: {{t+|fr|peser}}, {{t+|fr|planer}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|висеть|tr=visét'}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: [[viseti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hold or bear in a suspended or inclined manner or position instead of erect}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|svěsit}}
* Dutch: [[laten]] [[hangen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|baisser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängen}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause (something) to be suspended}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hangen}}, {{t+|nl|ophangen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pendigi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[ripustaa]], [[asettaa]] [[roikkua|roikkumaan]]
* French: [[pendre]], [[suspendre]], [[laisser pendre]]
* German: {{t+|de|aufhängen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|akaszt}}, {{t+|hu|felakaszt}}
* Japanese: [[掛ける]] ([[かける]], kakeru)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[걸다]] geolda
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pendurar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|подвесить|tr=podv'ésit'}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|obesiti}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[వేలాడదీయు]] (valaaDadeeyu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place on a hook}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pověsit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ophangen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|accrocher}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufhängen}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|pendar|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|appendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|pendurar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|agăţa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|подвесить|tr=podv'ésit'}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|obesiti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|execute (someone) by suspension from the neck}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|oběsit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hangen}}, {{t+|nl|ophangen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hirttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängen}}, {{qualifier|archaic}} {{t-|de|henken}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felakaszt}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|pendar|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: [[impiccare]], [[essere impiccato]]
* Portuguese: [[enforcar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|spânzura}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=pov'ésit'}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[penniri]], [[pinnuliari]]
* Slovene: [[obesiti]], [[obesiti se]], [[viseti]]
* Spanish: [[colgarse]], [[tildarse]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hänga}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఉరితీయు]] (uriteeyu), [[ఉరితీయబడు]] (uriteeyabaDu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be executed using gallows}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|viset}}
* Dutch: [[hangen]], [[opgehangen]] worden
* German: {{t+|de|aufhängen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|висеть|tr=visét'}} {{impf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|croch|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Add INFORMAL or SLANG terms to this table, and COGNATEs where these exist-->
{{trans-top|informal: loiter}}
* Dutch: [[rondhangen]], [[uithangen]]
* Finnish: [[roikkua]] {{qualifier|slang}}, [[hengailla]] {{qualifier|slang}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rôder}}, {{t+|fr|traîner}}, {{t+|fr|errer}}
* German: {{t|de|herumlungern}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|de|herumhängen}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|de|herumgammeln}}, {{t+|de|herumdrücken}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|ошиваться|tr=ošivát'sja}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|слоняться|tr=slon'át's'a}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: [[viseti]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hänga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|exhibit (an object)}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ophangen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|exposer}}
* German: {{t+|de|ausstellen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}; {{t|ru|вывешивать|tr=vyv'éšivat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|вывесить|tr=výv'ésit'}} {{pf.}}; {{t|ru|выставлять|tr=vystavlát'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|выставить|tr=výstavit'}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|apply (wallpaper to a wall)}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|behangen}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufhängen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}; {{t|ru|вывешивать|tr=vyv'éšivat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|вывесить|tr=výv'ésit'}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|decorate (something) with hanging objects}}
* Dutch: [[behangen]], [[volhangen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|orner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|schmücken}}, {{t-|de|dekorieren}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|обвешать|tr=''obvéšat'''}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|обвешивать|tr=obvéšivat'}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: stop responding}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|encallar-se}}, {{t|ca|bloquejar-se}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|vastlopen}}, {{t|nl|hangen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: cause (a program or computer) to stop responding}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|encallar}}, {{t|ca|bloquejar}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|laten}} {{t|nl|vastlopen}}, laten {{t|nl|hangen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaatua}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängen}}, {{t+|de|aufhängen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|bloccarsi}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|parar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вешать|tr=véšat'}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|повесить|tr=povésit'}} {{pf.}}, {{t|ru|подвесить|tr=''podv'ésit'''}} {{pf.}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|chess: be vulnerable to capture}}
* German: {{t+|de|hängen}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|bloccarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[chiantarisi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[pendi]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[pendar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[gantung|bergantung]], [[gantung|menggantung]], [[gantung|menggantungkan]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[colgar]], [[caer]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The way in which something hangs.
#: ''This skirt has a nice '''hang'''.
# {{figuratively}} A [[grip]], [[understanding]]
#: ''He got the '''hang''' of it after only two demonstrations
# {{computing}} An instance of ceasing to respond to [[input]] devices.
#: ''We sometimes get system '''hangs'''.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[get the hang of]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|hang sangwich}}, Irish colloquial pronunciation of {{term||ham}} [[sandwich]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|Ireland|informal|derogatory}} Cheap, processed [[ham]] (cured pork), often made specially for [[sandwich]]es.

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{infl|da|noun}}

# A [[slope]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɦɑŋ/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=c|hangen|hangetje}}

# A [[support]] for hanging objects, such as a nail for a picture frame
# A place to [[dry]] or [[smoke]] produce
# A [[tendency]], knack

====Related terms====
* [[hangijzer]] {{n}}

===Verb===
{{infl|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|hangen}}
# {{nl-verb-form|m=imp|hangen}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈhɒŋɡ/|lang=hu}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ok}}

# A [[voice]]
#: ''felemeli a '''hangját''''' - raise one's voice
# A [[sound]]
#: ''lépések '''hangja''''' - the sound of footsteps

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-ok|han|g|ot}}{{hu-pos-otok|hang|j|jai}}

====Derived terms====
* [[hangol]]
* [[hangos]]
* [[hangtalan]]
* [[hangzat]]
;Compound words
{{top4}}
* [[csengőhang]]
* [[hangerő]]
* [[hangfal]]
{{mid4}}
* [[hangmérnök]]
* [[hangsebesség]]
* [[hangsúly]]
{{mid4}}
* [[hangszer]]
* [[hangszóró]]
* [[hangtompító]]
{{mid4}}
* [[hangverseny]]
* [[visszhang]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:hu:Sound]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''hang'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[hāng]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[háng]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[hǎng]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[hàng]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

[[cs:hang]]
[[de:hang]]
[[et:hang]]
[[el:hang]]
[[es:hang]]
[[eu:hang]]
[[fa:hang]]
[[fr:hang]]
[[gl:hang]]
[[ko:hang]]
[[hr:hang]]
[[io:hang]]
[[it:hang]]
[[kn:hang]]
[[kk:hang]]
[[ku:hang]]
[[lo:hang]]
[[lt:hang]]
[[li:hang]]
[[hu:hang]]
[[mg:hang]]
[[ml:hang]]
[[my:hang]]
[[nl:hang]]
[[ja:hang]]
[[oc:hang]]
[[pl:hang]]
[[pt:hang]]
[[ru:hang]]
[[simple:hang]]
[[fi:hang]]
[[sv:hang]]
[[ta:hang]]
[[te:hang]]
[[tr:hang]]
[[uk:hang]]
[[vi:hang]]
[[zh:hang]]