==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈhɑːdˌwɛə/}}, {{SAMPA|/"hA:d%wE@/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈhɑɹdˌwɛɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"hArd%wE@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-hardware.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[metal|Metal]] implements.
# [[firearm|Firearm]].
# {{technology}} Electronic equipment.
# {{computing}} The part of a computer that is fixed and cannot be altered without replacement or physical modification; motherboard, expansion cards, etc.  Compare [[software]].
#* '''1952''': '''Hardware''' is the generally accepted colloquism for anything inside a computer other than an engineer. &mdash; ''Binary Arithmetic'', R.L. Michaelson, in The Incorporated Statistician, vol. 3, no. 1 (Feb. 1952), pp 35-40.
# [[fixture|Fixtures]], [[equipment]], [[tool|tools]] and [[device|devices]] used for general purpose construction and repair of a [[structure]] or [[object]] .  Also such equipment as sold as stock by a store of the same name, e.g. [[hardware store]].
#: He needed a [[hammer]], [[nail]]s, [[screw]]s, [[nut]]s, [[bolt]]s and other assorted '''hardware''', so he went to the hardware store.

====Related terms====
* [[software]]
* [[hardware store]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Metal implements}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn| বাংলা|tr= বাংলা|sc=Beng}}
* Croatian: [[željezarija]] {{f}}
* Czech: [[železářství|železářské]] [[zboží]] {{n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|udstyr|n}}
* Finnish: [[rautatavara]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σιδηρικά|n|p|tr=sidiriká}}, {{t|el|είδη κιγκαλερίας|n|p|tr=eídi kigkalerías}}
* [[Manx]]: {{t|gv|yiarnrey}}
* Portuguese: [[ferragens]] {{f}}, [[quinquilharia]] {{f}}
* [[Sindhi]]: {{t|sd|سامَگَرِي|tr=saamagaree|sc=sd-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Firearm}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zbraň|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|våben|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuliase}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|arme à feu|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|βαρύς στρατιωτικός εξοπλισμός|m|tr=varýs stratiotikós exoplismós}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Electronic equipment}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|হার্ডওয়্যার|tr=harḑ-owar|sc=Ben|xs=Bengali}}
* Croatian: [[sklopovlje]] {{n}}, [[hardver]] {{m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hardware|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|maskine}}r {{p}}, {{t|da|maskinel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laitteisto}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ηλεκτρονικός εξοπλισμός|m|tr=ilektronikós exoplismós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Mandarin: {{t|cmn|硬件|sc=Hani}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|sprzęt|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|hardware|n}}, {{t|ro|aparatură|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|аппаратура|f|tr=apparatúra}},  {{t+|ru|хардвер|m|tr=xardvér}},  {{t+|ru|оборудование|n|tr=oborúdovanije}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|donanım}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The part of a computer that is fixed and cannot be altered without replacement or physical modification}}
* {{trreq|ar}}
* Bengali: {{t-|bn|হার্ডওয়্যার|tr=harḑ-owar|sc=Beng|xs=Bengali}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|maquinari|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|硬件|tr=yìngjiàn|sc=Hani}},  {{qualifier|Taiwan}} {{t|cmn|硬體|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|硬体|tr=yìngtǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: [[sklopovlje]] {{n}}, [[hardver]] {{m}}, {{t|hr|računalna sklopovska podrška|f}}, {{t|hr|strojna oprema|f}}, {{t|hr|strojevina|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hardware|m}}
* Danish: hardware {{c}}, {{t|da|maskinel|n}}, {{t|da|isenkram}} {{qualifier|slang}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|aparataro}}
* Finnish: [[rauta]] {{qualifier|slang}}, [[laitteisto]]
* French: {{t+|fr|matériel|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hardware|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υλισμικό|n|tr=ylismikó}}
* Irish: [[crua-earraí]] {{m|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|hardware|m}}
* Japanese: [[ハードウェア]] (hādowea), [[ハード]] (hādo)
* Korean: {{t+|ko|하드웨어|tr=hadeuweeo|sc=Hang}},  {{t|ko|굳은모|sc=Hang}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ħardwer|m|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|maskinvare|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|sprzęt|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|hardware|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|hardware|f|n}}, {{t|ro|aparatură|f}}, {{t|ro|aparataj|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|аппаратура|f|tr=apparatúra}},  {{t+|ru|хардвер|m|tr=xardvér}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|bathar-cruaidh|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: [[sklopovlje]], [[čvrstovlje]], [[tvrdovlje]], [[strojevina]], [[tvrdotvorina]]
* [[Sindhi]]: {{sd-Arab|[[ڳڻپيوگري]]}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hårdvara|c}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|donanım}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Fixtures, equipment, tools and devices used for general purpose construction and repair of a structure or object}}
* Danish: {{t|da|udstyr|n}}, {{t|da|isenkram|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Eisenwaren|f|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|δομικά υλικά|n|p|tr=domiká yliká}}
* Serbian: [[sklopovlje]], [[čvrstovlje]], [[tvrdovlje]], [[strojevina]], [[tvrdotvorina]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[maquinari]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: [[نرم‌افزار]] (narmafzar)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[기계설비]] (gigyeseolbi)
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[donanım]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[w:Hardware|Wikipedia article on hardware]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{asph}} {{IPA|/aʁdwɛʁ/|lang=fr}}, {{X-SAMPA|/aRdwER/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-unc|m}}

# {{computing|lang=fr}} {{l|en|hardware}}

====Synonyms====
* [[matériel]]

[[am:hardware]]
[[ca:hardware]]
[[cs:hardware]]
[[et:hardware]]
[[el:hardware]]
[[es:hardware]]
[[fr:hardware]]
[[ko:hardware]]
[[io:hardware]]
[[id:hardware]]
[[it:hardware]]
[[kn:hardware]]
[[kk:hardware]]
[[ku:hardware]]
[[lt:hardware]]
[[hu:hardware]]
[[ml:hardware]]
[[my:hardware]]
[[nl:hardware]]
[[ja:hardware]]
[[pl:hardware]]
[[pt:hardware]]
[[ru:hardware]]
[[sd:hardware]]
[[sv:hardware]]
[[ta:hardware]]
[[te:hardware]]
[[tr:hardware]]
[[vi:hardware]]
[[zh:hardware]]