==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr}} {{term|harem|lang=tr}}, from {{etyl|ar}} {{term|حرم|lang=ar|sc=Arab|tr=ḥaram}} ‘something prohibited; sanctuary, women’; and later also from {{Arab|[[حريم]]}} (ḥarīm) with same meaning, both from {{Arab|[[حرم]]}} (ḥaruma) ‘be forbidden or unlawful’.  (Eng. usg. 1623)

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-harem.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The private part of an Arab household. In traditional Arab culture, this part of the household was forbidden to male strangers.
# A group of women, wives and/or concubines in a polygamous household.
# A group of female animals (cows) herded and controlled by a male animal (bull) of that species for breeding purposes. Such behaviour is exhibited by bovids including cattle and buffalo as well as moose, elephants, seals, sea lions, sea elephants.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{trans-top|}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[حريم]]}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|harem|m}}, {{t-|bs|haremluk|m}}
* Bulgarian: [[харем#Bulgarian|харем]] {{m}}
* Chinese:
*: Simplified: [[妻妾]], [[后宫]]
*: Traditional: [[妻妾]], [[後宮]] (hougong - lit.: "the palaces behind.")
* Croatian: harem {{m}}
* Czech: [[harém]] {{m}}
* Danish: harem
* Dutch: harem {{m}}, [[vrouwenverblijf]]
* Estonian: [[haarem]]
* Finnish: [[haaremi]]
* French: harem {{m}}
* German: [[Harem]] {{m}}
* Greek: [[χαρέμι]]
* Hebrew: [[הרמון]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: [[महल-सरा]] (mahal-sarā) {{f}}, [[हरम-सरा]] (haram-sarā) {{f}}
* Hungarian: [[hárem]]
* Italian: harem
* Japanese: [[ハーレム]]
* Korean: [[하렘]] (harem), [[후궁]] (hugung)
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[حریم]]}}
* Portuguese: [[harém]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[гарем]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|харем|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|харемлук|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sr|harem|m}}, {{t-|sr|haremluk|m}}
* Spanish: [[harén]]
* Swedish: harem {{n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|harem}}, {{t+|tr|haremlik}}
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[محل سرا]]}} (mahal-sarā) {{f}}, {{ur-Arab|[[حرم سرا]]}} (haram-sarā) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[concubine]]
* [[polygamy]]
* [[polygyny]]
{{mid2}}
* [[seraglio]]
* [[zenana]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr|bs}} {{term|harem|lang=tr}} < {{etyl|ar|bs}} {{term|حرم|lang=ar|sc=Arab|tr=ḥaram}}.

===Noun===
{{bs-noun|g=m|haremi}}

# [[#English|harem]]

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr|hr}} {{term|harem|lang=tr}} < {{etyl|ar|hr}} {{term|حرم|lang=ar|sc=Arab|tr=ḥaram}}.

===Noun===
{{hr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|harem]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|tr|it}}

===Noun===
'''harem''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|harem]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

----

==Serbian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr|sr}} {{term|harem|lang=tr}} < {{etyl|ar|sr}} {{term|حرم|lang=ar|sc=Arab|tr=ḥaram}}.

===Noun===
{{sr-noun|g=m|pl=haremi|cyr=харем}}

# [[#English|harem]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ar|tr}} {{term|حرم|lang=ar|sc=Arab|tr=ḥaram}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|tr|noun}}

# [[#English|harem]]

[[el:harem]]
[[fr:harem]]
[[io:harem]]
[[ku:harem]]
[[hu:harem]]
[[ml:harem]]
[[ru:harem]]
[[fi:harem]]
[[te:harem]]
[[vi:harem]]
[[tr:harem]]
[[zh:harem]]