==English==

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb|head=[[haul]] (one's) [[ashes]]}}
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} To move someone's body, to move away.
#* '''1996''', [[w:Matt Braun|Matt Braun]], ''Bloody Hand'', St. Martin's Press, ISBN 0312958390, page 222,
#*: Now ye and yore boys jest '''haul yore ashes''' and start makin' tracks back to the Yellowstone.
#* '''2001''', William W. Johnstone, ''Code of the Mountain Man'', Pinnacle Books, ISBN 0786013044, page 265,
#*: "Then leave, you yeller-belly!" Luttie said. "You're paid up. '''Haul your ashes'''."
#*: "I believe I'll just do that little thing. I'm pullin' out...."
#* '''2002''', [[w:Matt Braun|Matt Braun]], ''Hangman's Creek'', St. Martin's Press, ISBN 0312981759, page 91–93,
#*: Tate uncorked a haymaker, and Starbuck ducked low, belted him in the gut.... The impact buckled Tate.... He was out cold....
#*: "Anybody [referring to Starbuck] that can '''haul Sam Tate's ashes''' is my kinda of man...."
# {{lb|en|euphemistic}} Have [[sexual intercourse]] with (someone).
#* '''1989''', [[w:Gilbert Sorrentino|Gilbert Sorrentino]], ''Misterioso'', in ''Pack of Lies'', 1997 Dalkey Archive Press edition, ISBN 1564781542, page 349,
#*: "George Brent has got one hell of a schlong on him," Tabitha ventures.
#*: "And how!" Lucy agrees enthusiastically. "I'd '''haul his ashes for him''' any time."
#* '''2002''', Stephen J. Cannell, ''The Viking Funeral'', St. Martin's Press, ISBN 0312983433, page 157,
#*: Just do me a favor: if you decide to '''haul her ashes''', don't tell Victory. He's got a crush on her, and so far she won't give him any play.
#* '''2004''', Iceberg Slim, ''Mama Black Widow'', Holloway House Publishing, ISBN 0870679317, page 293,
#*: I still get beautiful laddies to '''haul my ashes''' when my old balls get heavy.