{{also|hâve}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|haven|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|habban|lang=ang}}, {{term|hafian||to have|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|habjanan|to have|lang=en}}, durative of {{proto|Germanic|habjanan|to lift, take up|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|kap-|to take, seize, catch|lang=en}}. Cognate with Low German [[hebben]]/[[hewwen]], {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|hawwe||to have|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|hebben||to have|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|haben||to have|lang=de}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|have||to have|lang=da}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|hafa||to have|lang=is}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|capio|capiō|take|pos=verb|lang=la}}. More at [[heave]].

Since there is no common Indo-European root for a transitive possessive verb ''have'' (notice that Latin "[[habeo]]" is not related to English "have"), Proto-Indo-European probably lacked the ''have'' structure. Instead, the third person forms of ''[[be]]'' were used, with the possessor in [[dative case]], cf. Latin ''mihi est / sunt'', literally ''to me is / are''. <ref>http://books.google.fi/books?id=XlJrPvrGfO0C&pg=PA22&lpg=PA22&dq=%22mihi+est%22+indo-european&source=bl&ots=nQ3y6cgbSp&sig=vpKTQ-OWYXv7dYG3_8RHn9uKYHY&hl=fi&ei=bC3yTP3PKojOswb6xPnyCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22mihi%20est%22%20indo-european&f=false</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}} {{IPA|/hæv/}} {{SAMPA|/h{v/}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}} {{IPA|/(h)əv/}} {{SAMPA|/(h)@v/}}
* {{sense|have to}} {{IPA|/hæf/}} {{SAMPA|/h{f/}}
* {{audio|en-us-have.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-to have.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|æv}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|'''[[has]]''', or archaic '''[[hath]]'''|having|had}}

: Additional archaic forms are second-person singular present tense''' [[hast]] '''and second-person singular past tense''' [[hadst]]''' or '''[[haddest]]'''.

# {{transitive}} To [[possess]], [[own]], [[hold]].
#: ''I '''have''' a house and a car.''
#: ''Look what I '''have''' here — a frog I found on the street!''
# {{transitive}} To be [[related]] in some way to (with the object identifying the relationship).
#: ''I '''have''' two sisters.''
#: ''The dog down the street '''has''' a lax owner.''
# {{transitive}} To [[partake]] of a particular substance (especially a [[food]] or [[drink]]) or action.
#: ''I '''have''' breakfast at six o'clock.''
#: ''Can I '''have''' a look at that?''
#: ''I'm going to '''have''' some pizza and some Pepsi right now.''
# {{context|auxiliary verb, taking a [[past participle]]}} Used in forming the [[w:Perfect aspect|perfect aspect]] and the past perfect aspect.
#: ''I '''have''' already eaten today.''
#: ''I '''had''' already eaten.''
# {{context|auxiliary verb, taking a [[w:Infinitive|to-infinitive]]}} [[must]].
#: ''I '''have''' to go.''
#: Note: there's a separate entry for '''[[have to]]'''.
# {{transitive}} To [[give birth]] to.
#: ''The couple always wanted to '''have''' children.''
#: ''My wife is '''having''' the baby right now!''
# {{transitive}} To engage in [[sexual intercourse]] with.
#: ''He's always bragging about how many women he's '''had'''.''
# (''transitive with bare infinitive'') To [[cause]] to, by a [[command]] or [[request]].
#: ''They '''had''' me feed their dog while they were out of town.''
# (''transitive with adjective or adjective-phrase complement'') To [[cause]] to be.
#: ''He '''had''' him arrested for trespassing.''
#: ''The lecture's ending '''had''' the entire audience in tears.''
# (''transitive with bare infinitive'') To be [[affected]] by an occurrence. (Used in supplying a [[topic]] that is not a verb [[argument]].)
#: ''The hospital '''had''' several patients contract pneumonia last week.''
#: ''I've '''had''' three people today tell me my hair looks nice.''
# (''transitive with adjective or adjective-phrase complement'') To [[depict]] as being.
#: ''Their stories differed; he said he'd been at work when the incident occurred, but her statement '''had''' him at home that entire evening.''
# Used as interrogative auxiliary verb with a following [[pronoun]] to form [[tag question]]s. (For further discussion, see "Usage notes" below)
#: ''We haven't eaten dinner yet, '''have we'''?''
#: ''Your wife hasn't been reading that nonsense, '''has she'''?''
#: {{context|UK usage}} ''He has some money, '''hasn't he'''?''
# {{British|slang}} To [[defeat]] in a [[fight]]; [[take]].
#: ''I could '''have''' him!''
#: ''I'm gonna '''have''' you!''
# {{Irish}} To be able to [[speak]] a [[language]].
#: ''I '''have''' no German''
# To [[feel]] or be (especially [[painfully]]) [[aware]] of.
#: ''Dan certainly '''has''' arms today, probably from scraping paint off four columns the day before.''
# To be [[afflict]]ed with, to [[suffer]] from, to [[experience]] something [[negative]]
#: ''He '''had''' a cold last week.''
#: ''We '''had''' a hard year last year, with the locust swarms and all that.''
# To [[trick]], to [[deceive]]
#: ''Yeah! You '''had''' me alright! Between your threatening stance and your armed-to-the-teeth men, I never would've thought that was just a joke.''
# {{transitive|often with present participle}} Allow.
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 2
#*: "You're a very naughty boy. If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times. I won't have you chasing the geese!"

====Usage notes====
'''Interrogative auxiliary verb'''

'''have ...?''' (''[[third-person]] [[singular]]'' '''has ...?''', ''third-person singular negative'' '''hasn't ...?''' ''or'' '''has ... not?''', ''negative for all other persons, singular and plural'' '''haven't ...?''' ''or'' '''have ... not?'''); ''in each case, the [[ellipsis]] stands for a pronoun''

* Used with a following [[pronoun]] to form [[tag question]]s after statements that use "have" to form the [[perfect tense]] or (in UK usage) that use "have" in the present tense.
*: <tt>“</tt>We haven't eaten dinner yet, '''have we'''?<tt>”</tt>
*: <tt>“</tt>Your wife hasn't been reading that nonsense, '''has she'''?<tt>”</tt>
*: <tt>“</tt>I'd bet that student hasn't studied yet, '''have they'''?<tt>”</tt>
*: <tt>“</tt>You've known all along, '''haven't you'''?<tt>”</tt>
*: <tt>“</tt>The sun has already set, '''has it not'''?<tt>”</tt>
*: (''UK usage'') <tt>“</tt>He has some money, '''hasn't he'''?<tt>”</tt> (''see usage notes below'')
* This construction forms a tag that converts a present perfect tense sentence into a question. The tag always uses an object pronoun substituting for the subject. Negative sentences use ''has'' or ''have'', distinguished by number. Affirmative sentences use the same followed by ''not'', or alternatively, more commonly, and less formally, ''hasn't'' or ''haven't''.
* In American usage, this construction does not apply to present tense sentences with ''has'' or ''have'', or their negations, as a verb; it does not apply either to the construction "have got". In those cases, use "[[does]]" or its negation instead.  For example: "He has some money, doesn't he?" and "I have got enough time, don't I?"  These constructions with "do", "does", "don't" or "doesn't" are considered incorrect in UK usage.

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from have}}
* [[-'ve]]
* [[be had]]
* [[have a ball]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[have a cow]]
* [[have at you]]
* [[have it in for]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[have it off]]
* [[have had enough]]
* [[have had it]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[have nots]]
* [[have someone on]]
* [[have to]]
* [[haves]]
{{rel-bottom}}

{{xsee|[[Appendix:Collocations of do, have, make, and take]]}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to possess}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|ka|xs=Albanian}}
* [[Ancient Greek]]: {{tø|grc|ἔχω|tr=ekhō|sc=polytonic}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ملك|tr=málaka|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|امتلك|tr=imtálaka|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ar|تملك|tr=tamállaka|sc=Arab}}, ''usually no verb is used'', prepositions: {{t-|ar|عند|alt=عندـ|tr=3ind-}}, {{t-|ar|ل|alt=لـ|tr=li-}}, etc. + noun or pronoun are used, e.g. {{t|ar|عندي|tr=3indii}} - I have, {{t|ar|عندك|tr=3índak/3índak}} - you have (''m/f''), etc.
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ունենալ|tr=unenal}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|мець|tr=mec'|xs=Belarusian}}, ''usually expressed with expressions:'' "у мяне (ёсць)" (u mjanjé (josc’)) - I have, ""у цябе (ёсць)" (u cjabjé (josc’)) - you have '', etc.'' See {{t-|be|у|tr=u|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|imati}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|имам|tr=ímam}}
* {{trreq|Burmese}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[haver]], {{t+|ca|tenir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|有|tr=yǒu|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|擁有|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|拥有|tr=yōngyǒu|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|imati}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hebben}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|havi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|hevur|xs=Faroese}}, {{t|fo|hava}}
* Finnish: ''adessive'' + ''3rd person singular of'' [[olla#Finnish|olla]], [[omistaa]], {{t+|fi|omata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|avoir}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|haben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|έχω|tr=ekhō}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|रखना|tr=rakhnā|xs=Hindi}},  {{t|hi|पास|alt=...के पास|tr=...ke pās|xs=Hindi}},  {{t-|hi|के|alt=...के|tr=...ke|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: [[bír]], [[birtokol]], [[van]] [[-nak]]/[[-nek]] (''attached to owner'')
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hafa}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|punya|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|haber|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|avere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|持つ|tr=もつ, motsu}}; {{t+|ja|ある|tr=aru}} (''of inanimates''), {{t+|ja|いる|tr=いる}} (''of animates'')
* [[Khmer]]: {{t|km|មាន|tr=mien|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|있다|tr=itda|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|hebûn}}, {{t+|ku|heyîn}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Lao]]: {{t|lo|ມີ|tr=mii|sc=Laoo}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|habeo|alt=habeō}}, {{t|la|teneo}}, {{t|la|possideo}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|turėti|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ha}}
* [[Novial]]: [[have#Novial|have]]
* [[Occitan]]: {{t|oc|aver}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|habban|xs=Old English}}
* [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|avoir}},  {{tø|fro|aveir}}
* [[Old Provençal]]: {{tø|pro|aver}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|داشتن|tr=dâštan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mieć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ter}}
* Romanian: a [[avea]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|иметь|tr=imét’}}, ''usually expressed with expressions:'' [[у меня (есть)]] (u menjá (jest’)) - I have, [[у тебя (есть)]] (u tebjá (jest’)) - you have '', etc.'' See [[у#Russian|у]] (2 - preposition)
* [[Scots]]: [[hae]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: ''uses {{t-|gd|bi|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}+object+{{t-|gd|aig|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}+subject''
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[имати#Serbian|имати]]
*: Roman: [[imati#Serbian|imati]]
* [[Sicilian]]: {{t+|scn|aviri|xs=Sicilian}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|mať}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|imeti}}
* Sorbian:
*: [[Lower Sorbian]]: {{t|dsb|měś}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|äga}}, {{t+|sv|ha}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[magkaroón]]
* Thai: {{t+|th|มี|tr=mee}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sahip olmak}} ,  ''usually expressed with expressions:'' "benim ...(I)m var" - I have, "senin ...(I)n var" - you have '', etc.''
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|мати|tr=máty|xs=Ukrainian}}, ''usually expressed with expressions:'' "у/в мене (є)" (u/v méne (je)) - I have, "у/в тебе (є)" (u/v tébe (je)) - I have - you have '', etc.'' See {{t-|uk|у|tr=u|xs=Ukrainian}} / {{t+|uk|в|tr=v|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|پاس|tr=... ke pās|alt=... کے پاس|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|có|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|labön}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|bod|xs=Welsh}}...{{t+|cy|gyda|xs=Welsh}} - literally 'to be...with'
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|hawwe|xs=West Frisian}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|האָבן|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be related to}}
* [[Ancient Greek]]: {{tø|grc|ἔχω|tr=ekhō|sc=polytonic}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|olla}}
* German: {{t+|de|haben}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: [[van]] [[-nak]]/[[-nek]] (''attached to one who is related'')
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mieć}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ha}}
* Ukrainian: [[мати#Verb|мати]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to partake of something}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}, {{t+|da|få}}
* Finnish: Normally a direct sentence would be used, but [[ottaa]], [[saada]] in some cases
* French: {{t+|fr|prendre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Novial]]: [[prenda]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gabh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}},  {{t+|es|tomar}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|cymryd|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|auxiliary used in forming the perfect and the past perfect tenses}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hebben}}, {{t+|nl|zijn}}
* Esperanto: [[esti]], [[jam#Esperanto|jam]] (''with verb in simple tense'')
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|olla}}
* French: [[avoir]] (''for most verbs''), [[être]] (''for some intransitive verbs and all reflexive verbs'')
* German: {{t+|de|haben}}, {{t+|de|sein}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|έχω}}
* Italian: [[avere]] (''for most verbs''), [[essere]] (''for some intransitive verbs and all reflexive verbs'')
* Latin: {{qualifier|the perfect}} {{t|la|ivi|tr=i have gone}}, {{qualifier|for some Deponent and semi-deponent verbs}} {{t|la|sum}}, {{qualifier|use the perfect tenses some normal  vebs}} {{t|la|ivi|tr=i have gone}}, {{qualifier|use the perfect tenses for some  normal vebs}} {{t|la|ivi|tr=i have gone}}, {{t|la|usus sum|tr= i have used}}, {{t|la|gressus sum|tr=i have gone}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|har hat}}
* [[Novial]]: [[ha#Novial|ha]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|habban|xs=Old English}}
* [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|avoir}},  {{tø|fro|aveir}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|haver}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|bi|xs=Scottish Gaelic}} {{t-|gd|air|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|haber}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ha}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|bod|xs=Welsh}} {{t+|cy|wedi|xs=Welsh}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|האָבן|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|must}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skulle}}
* Finnish: [[täytyä]], [[olla]] [[pakko]]
* French: {{t+|fr|devoir}}
* German: {{t+|de|müssen}}
* Italian: {{t|it|dovere}}
* Latin: {{t|la|habeo quod}}, {{qualifier|i have to be}} {{t|la|futurus sum|tr=Periphrastic conjugations}}, {{qualifier|i have to be}} {{t|la|futurus sum|tr=Periphrastic conjugations}}, {{qualifier|Periphrastic passive conjugations }} {{t|la|servandus sum|tr=have to save}}, {{t|la|debeo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|ter que}}, {{t|pt|haver de}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tener que}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|måste}}, {{t|sv|vara tvungen}}
* Ukrainian: [[мати#Verb|мати]], [[повинен]] (-m, [[повинна]] - f, [[повинно]] - n, [[повинні]] - plural)
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|bod|xs=Welsh}} {{t+|cy|rhaid|xs=Welsh}} {{t-|cy|i|xs=Welsh}} + ''pronoun'' or ''noun''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|give birth to}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|få}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|krijgen}}
* Finnish: [[saada]] [[lapsi]], [[synnyttää]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|bekommen}}
* Latin: {{t|la|patio}}, {{t|la|pario}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ter}}
* Spanish: [[tener]] [[un]] [[hijo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|engage in sexual intercourse with}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mít}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hebben}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|olla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|haben}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|иметь|tr=imyét}}
* Spanish: [[tener]] [[sexo]]
* Ukrainian: [[мати#Verb|мати]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to, by command or request}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|få}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyytää}}, {{t+|fi|määrätä}}
* Hungarian: [[-at]]/[[-et]]/[[-tat]]/[[-tet]]
* Latin: {{qualifier|Periphrastic conjugations}} {{t|la| futurus sum |tr= (i have to be)}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|fazer}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tener que}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|få}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to be}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|have}}, {{t+|da|få}}
* Finnish: Different structure used, see: [[-ttaa]]
* German: {{t+|de|lassen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ter}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|få}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be affected by an occurrence}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|få}}
* Finnish: No equivalent, a direct sentence would be used.
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to depict as being}}
* [[Afar]]: {{t|aa|hindi}}
* Finnish: Different structure used, see: [[mukaan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tener}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to trick}}
* French: {{t|fr|avoir}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interrogative auxiliary verb}}
* Finnish: Different structure used, see: [[vai]] ( + question)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[auxiliary verb]]
* [[past tense]]
* [[perfect tense]]

===References===
<references />

===Statistics===
* {{rank|on|her|which|25|have|or|from|this}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English auxiliary verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|hagi|lang=non}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/haːvə/|[ˈhæːvə]|[ˈhæːw̩]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{da-noun|n|r}}

# [[garden]]
# [[orchard]]
# [[allotment]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|n|r}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|hafa||to have, wear, carry|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|habjanan|to have, hold|lang=da}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|kap-|to seize, grab|lang=da}}.

====Alternative forms====
* [[ha']]

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ha/|[ha]|lang=da}} or {{IPA|/haː/|[hæːˀ]|lang=da}}

====Verb====
{{da-verb|hav|have|har|havde|har|haft}}

# [[have#English|have]], [[have got]]

===Etymology 3===
See {{term|hav||sea, ocean|lang=da}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/haːvə/|[ˈhæːvə]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{head|da|noun form|g=n}}

# {{form of|plural indefinite|hav|lang=da}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Alternative forms===

* {{l|nn|hava}} (a infinitive)
* {{l|no|ha}} (also Norwegian Bokmål)

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|nn}} {{term|hafa|lang=non}}.

===Verb===
{{nn-verb|har|hadde|hatt|stem=hav|imp=hav}}

# to [[have#English|have]] (possess)
#: ''Eg '''har''' eit hus og to bilar.''
#:: I '''have''' a house and two cars.
# to [[have#English|have]] (to relate to in some manner)
#: ''Eg '''har''' to systrer.''
#:: I '''have''' two sisters.

====References====
* {{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet|lang=nn}}

----

==Tarantino==

===Verb===
'''have'''

# {{conjugation of|avere||3|s|pres|ind|lang=roa-tar}}

[[Category:Tarantino verb forms]]

[[ang:have]]
[[ar:have]]
[[cs:have]]
[[cy:have]]
[[da:have]]
[[de:have]]
[[et:have]]
[[el:have]]
[[es:have]]
[[eu:have]]
[[fa:have]]
[[fr:have]]
[[fy:have]]
[[gl:have]]
[[ko:have]]
[[hy:have]]
[[hi:have]]
[[hr:have]]
[[io:have]]
[[id:have]]
[[it:have]]
[[kn:have]]
[[kk:have]]
[[ku:have]]
[[lo:have]]
[[la:have]]
[[lt:have]]
[[li:have]]
[[hu:have]]
[[mg:have]]
[[ml:have]]
[[my:have]]
[[nl:have]]
[[ja:have]]
[[no:have]]
[[oc:have]]
[[pl:have]]
[[pt:have]]
[[ro:have]]
[[ru:have]]
[[simple:have]]
[[fi:have]]
[[sv:have]]
[[ta:have]]
[[te:have]]
[[th:have]]
[[tr:have]]
[[uk:have]]
[[vi:have]]
[[zh:have]]