{{also|Appendix:Variations of "he"}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|hee||obsolete}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|he}}, from {{inh|en|ang|hē}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*hiz||this, this one}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|hē}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈhiː/}}, {{a|unstressed}} {{IPA|en|/hi/|/i/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|hē}}, {{IPA|en|/hi/|[hi]|[çi]}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-he.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|En-uk-he.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|iː}}

====Pronoun====
{{en-pron|desc=third-person singular, masculine, nominative case|oblique|him|reflexive|himself|possessive|his}}

# {{lb|en|personal}} A [[male]] person or animal already known or implied.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1620|section=Nouell 8, The Eighth Day|title= {{w|The Decameron|The Decameron, Containing an Hundred Pleaſant Nouels: Wittily Diſcourſed, Betweene Seuen Honourable Ladies, and Three Noble Gentlemen}} |author= {{w|Giovanni Bocaccio}}|trans= {{w|John Florio}} |publisher=Isaac Iaggard|url= https://books.google.co.nz/books?id=FEz6_FECCI0C |isbn= 9780897338677 |passage={{...}}purſued his vnneighbourly purpoſe in ſuch ſort: that '''hee''' being the ſtronger perſwader, and ſhe (belike) too credulous in beleeuing or elſe ouer-feeble in reſiſting, from priuate imparlance, they fell to action; and continued their cloſe fight a long while together, vnſeene and vvithout ſuſpition, no doubt to their equall ioy and contentment.}}
#* '''July 18 2012''', Scott Tobias, AV Club ''The Dark Knight Rises''[http://www.avclub.com/articles/the-dark-knight-rises-review-batman,82624/]
#*: Though Bane’s sing-song voice gives his pronouncements a funny lilt, '''he''' doesn’t have any of the Joker’s deranged wit, and Nolan isn’t interested in undercutting his seriousness for the sake of a breezier entertainment.
#* {{seemoreCites|en}}
# {{lb|en|personal|sometimes|_|proscribed|see usage notes}} A person whose gender is unknown or irrelevant.
#: ''The rulebook clearly states that "if any student is caught cheating, '''he''' will be expelled", and you were caught cheating, were you not, Anna?''
# {{lb|en|personal}} An animal whose gender is unknown.
# A genderless object regarded as masculine, such as certain stars (e.g. Sun, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter) or certain ships.
#: {{antonyms|en|she|it}}
#* '''1770''', ''A Mathematical Miscellany in Four Parts'', 3rd edition, p. 125:
#*: JUPITER is the largest of all the Planets, '''his''' Orbit lies between the Orbits of the ''Earth'' and ''Mars'', and at the cast Distance of 426 Millions of Miles from the Sun, '''he''' goes round '''him''' in 11 Years, 314 Days and 12 Hours; {{...}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2019|author=Sabaton|title=Bismarck|passage=He [= the ship Bismarck] was made to rule the waves across the seven seas {{...}} }}

=====Usage notes=====
* ''He'' was traditionally used as both a masculine and a gender-neutral pronoun, but since the mid 20th century generic usage has sometimes been considered [[sexist]] and limiting.<ref>{{R:Dictionary.com}}</ref><ref>''When Words Collide: A Media Writer's Guide to Grammar and Style'' (2007, {{ISBN|0495050253}}</ref> It is deprecated by some style guides, such as ''Wadsworth''.<ref>''The Pocket Wadsworth Handbook, 2009 MLA Update Edition'' {{ISBN|1439081816}}, page 81: [A]void using the generic ''he'' or ''him'' when your subject could be either male or female. [...] '''Sexist:''' Before boarding, each passenger should make certain that he has his ticket. / '''Revised:''' Before boarding, passengers should make certain that they have their tickets.</ref> In place of generic ''he'', writers and speakers may use {{m|en|he or she}}, alternate ''he'' and {{m|en|she}} as the indefinite person, use the singular {{m|en|they}}, or rephrase sentences to use plural {{m|en|they}}.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|person whose gender is unknown}} {{l|en|one}}, {{l|en|you}} {{q|indefinite, colloquial}}; {{l|en|he or she}}, {{l|en|he/she}}, {{l|en|they}}, {{l|en|s/he}}, ''or [[Appendix:English third-person singular pronouns|these other third-person pronouns (see "Combined forms", "Invented pronouns")]]''
* {{sense|animal whose gender is unknown}} {{l|en|it}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|a man is known by the company he keeps}}
* {{l|en|he said, she said}}
* {{l|en|he shoots, he scores}}
* {{l|en|he who laughs last laughs hardest}}, {{l|en|he who laughs last laughs best}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|he'd}}
* {{l|en|he-}}: [[he-ass]], [[he-bitch]], [[he-cat]], [[he-goat]], [[he-man]], [[he-whore]], [[he-wolf]]
* {{l|en|s/he}}, {{l|en|he/she}}, {{l|en|he or she}}
* {{l|en|speak of the devil and he will appear}}
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{see translation subpage|Pronoun}}

=====See also=====
{{English personal pronouns}}

=====References=====
<references/>

====Determiner====
{{head|en|determiner}}

# {{lb|en|AAVE}} {{synonym of|en|his}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The game of [[tag]], or [[it]], in which the player attempting to catch the others is called "he".
# The player attempting to catch the others in this game.
# {{lb|en|informal}} A [[male]].
#: ''Is your cat a '''he''' or a she?''

===Etymology 2===
Transliteration of various Semitic letters, such as Phoenician {{m|mul|sc=Phnx|𐤄|tr=h}}, {{etyl|he|-}} {{m|mul|sc=Hebr|ה|tr=h}}, Syriac {{m|mul|sc=Syrc|ܗ|tr=h||hē}}, and Old South Arabian {{m|sem-srb|sc=Sarb|𐩠|tr=h}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|hay}}
* {{l|en|hei}}
* {{l|en|hey}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|en|/heɪː/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|?}}

# The name of the fifth letter of many [[Semitic]] alphabets ([[Phoenician]], [[Aramaic]], [[Hebrew]], [[Syriac]], [[Arabic]] and others).
#* '''1658''', {{w|Thomas Browne}}, ''The Garden of Cyrus'', Folio Society 2007, page 210:
#*: The same number in the Hebrew mysteries and Cabalistical accounts was the character of Generation; declared by the Letter '''''He''''', the fifth in their Alphabet.
#*'''1988''', Christina Pribićević-Zorić, translating {{w|Milorad Pavić}}, ''Dictionary of the Khazars'', Vintage 1989, p. 7:
#*:This Nehama claimed that in his own hand he recognized the consonant “'''he'''” of his Hebrew language, and in the letter “vav” his own male soul.
# The name of the first letter of the [[Old South Arabian]] abjad.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fifth letter of the various Semitic alphabets}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|he|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|he}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הֵא|f|tr=hé|sc=Hebr}}, {{t+|he|ה}} {{qualifier|symbol}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ha}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|הא|tr=hey|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* {{l|en|Appendix:Hebrew alphabet}}

=====Further reading=====
* {{pedialite|He (letter)}}

===Etymology 3===

====Interjection====
{{head|en|interjection}}

# {{lb|en|uncommon|usually|reduplicated}} {{n-g|An expression of laughter.}}
#: {{syn|en|ha|hehe}} {{q|more common}}
#* '''1897''', Charles Dudley Warner, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Charles Henry Warner, Lucia Isabella Gilbert Runkle, ''Library of the World's Best Literature: A-Z'', page 1791:
#*: If e'er he went into excess, / 'Twas from a somewhat lively thirst; / But he who would his subjects bless, / Odd's fish!—must wet his whistle first; / And so from every cask they got, / Our king did to himself allot / At least a pot. / Sing ho, ho, ho! and '''he, he, he'''! / That's the kind of king for me.
#* '''1921''', Norman Davey, ''The Pilgrim of a Smile'', page 247:
#*: "Well, what is your next tale?" said Sumner, a little brusquely. "'''He, he! he, he! . . . he, he!'''" chuckled the bottle, "the text tale I'm going to tell you in a very funny one. It will make you laugh. There's a lady in it—'''he, he!'''—a very comic affair."

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eh|-eh|E.H.|EH|eH|eh}}

[[Category:English basic words]]
[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:English personal pronouns]]
[[Category:English third person pronouns]]
[[Category:English two-letter words]]
[[Category:en:Hebrew letter names]]

----

==Aukan==

===Noun===
{{head|djk|noun}}

# [[paca]] {{gloss|large South and Central American rodent}}

===References===
* [//www-01.sil.org/americas/suriname/Aukan/English/AukanEngDictIndex.html Aukan-English Dictionary] (SIL), citing Vernon (1985)

----

==Breton==

===Etymology===
Compare {{cog|cy|ei}}.

===Determiner===
{{head|br|determiner|cat2=possessive determiners}}

# [[her]]
#: {{uxi|br|'''he''' [[zad]]|[[her]] father}}

----

==Catalan==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|ca|haig}}

===Verb===
{{head|ca|verb form}}

# {{ca-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|haver}}

----

==Classical Nahuatl==

===Etymology===
A natural expression.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|nci|[é]}}

===Interjection===
{{head|nci|interjection}}

# an expression of physical pain; [[ouch]].
#* '''1571:''' [[w:Alonso de Molina|Alonso de Molina]], ''[[w:Vocabulario en lengua castellana y mexicana y mexicana y castellana|Vocabulario en lengua castellana y mexicana y mexicana y castellana]]'', f. 22r. col. 1.
#*: '''He'''. o. interjection del / que ſequexa con do / lor.
#*:: '''He'''. ouch, and interjection used by one complaining in pain.

===References===
* {{cite-book|author=[[w:Alonso de Molina|Alonso de Molina]]|year=1571|title=Vocabulario en lengua castellana y mexicana y mexicana y castellana|publisher=Editorial Porrúa|page=22r}}

----

==Danish==

===Interjection===
{{da-interj}}

# {{lb|da|onomatopoeia}} {{non-gloss definition|Signifies a laugh, especially one that is slightly mischievous.}}

====See also====
* {{l|da|ha}}

----

==Dutch==

===Interjection===
{{head|nl|interjection}}

# {{misspelling of|nl|hè}}
# {{misspelling of|nl|hé}}

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|eo|LL-Q143 (epo)-Lepticed7-he.wav|Audio}}

===Interjection===
{{eo-intj}}

# interjection used to attract someone's attention, [[hey]]
# interjection expressing irony

====Derived terms====
* {{l|eo|he ho}}

====See also====
* {{l|eo|hej}}

{{eo BRO|8}}

----

==Fasu==

===Noun===
{{head|faa|noun|head=hẹ}} ''or'' '''hȩ́''' {{term-label|faa|Fasu}}

# [[water]]
# [[river]]
#: ''he Aiyo'' : the River Aiyo
# [[lake]]
#: ''he Kutupu'' : Lake Kutubu
# [[liquid]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|faa|hi}} {{qualifier|Namumi}}

===References===
* Karl J. Franklin, ''[https://web.archive.org/web/20160305070551/http://www-01.sil.org/pacific/png/pubs/10745/Comp_Wordlist_Gulfdistrict.pdf Comparative Wordlist 1 of the Gulf District and adjacent areas]'' (1975), page 67
* Eunice Loeweke, Jean May, ''General grammar of Fasu (Namo Me)'' (1980)
* Eunice Loeweke, Jean May, ''Fasu Namo Me dictionary'' (1981, digitized 2006)

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|fi|fiu-fin-pro|*hek}}, from {{inh|fi|urj-fpr-pro|*sej}}. Cognates include {{cog|se|sii}}. The word is inflected as plural, but there is no plural marker in the nominative, except in dialects ({{m|fi|het}}).

====Pronunciation====
{{fi-pronunciation|a=fi-he.ogg}}

====Pronoun====
{{fi-pron}}

# {{lb|fi|personal}} [[they]] {{qualifier|always plural, only of people}}

=====Usage notes=====
* In standard Finnish, '''''he''''' is practically never omitted, despite the verb showing both the person and the number. (compare the usage of {{m|fi|hän}}, "she" / "he")

=====Declension=====
* Irregular. The [[comitative]] and [[instructive]] forms don't exist; the [[abessive]] is hardly used.
* In addition to the standard set of cases, '''''he''''' and other personal pronouns have a specific [[accusative]] form; ''[[heidät]]''.
{{fi-decl-pron|1s=[[hän]]|2s=[[hänen]]|3s=[[häntä]]|4s=[[hänet]]|5s=[[hänessä]]|6s=[[hänestä]]|7s=[[häneen]]|8s=[[hänellä]]|9s=[[häneltä]]|10s=[[hänelle]]|11s=[[hänenä]]|12s=[[häneksi]]|14s=[[hänettä]]|1p='''he'''|2p=[[heidän]]|3p=[[heitä]]|4p=[[heidät]]|5p=[[heissä]]|6p=[[heistä]]|7p=[[heihin]]|8p=[[heillä]]|9p=[[heiltä]]|10p=[[heille]]|11p=[[heinä]]|12p=[[heiksi]]|14p=[[heittä]]|adv=no}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|dialectal}} {{l|fi|het}}
* {{sense|dialectal}} {{l|fi|hyö}}
* {{sense|colloquial}} {{l|fi|ne}}

====See also====
* {{l|fi|minä}}
* {{l|fi|sinä}}
* {{l|fi|hän}}
* {{l|fi|me}}
* {{l|fi|te}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|fi|phn|𐤄‎}} and/or {{der|fi|he|ה‎}}.

====Pronunciation====
{{fi-p|he(:)}}

====Noun====
{{fi-noun}}

# [[#English|he]] {{gloss|fifth letter of the Hebrew and Phoenician scripts and the Northwest Semitic abjad}}

=====Declension=====
{{fi-decl-rosé|he|ä|ill_sg_vowel=e}}

[[Category:Finnish personal pronouns]]
[[Category:Finnish two-letter words]]
[[Category:fi:Hebrew letter names]]
[[Category:fi:Phoenician letter names]]

----

==German Low German==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|nds-de|hee}}
* {{qualifier|in other dialects, including Mecklenburgisch Western Pomeranian and Low Prussian}} {{l|nds-de|hei}}
* {{qualifier|in other dialects, including Sauerländisch}} {{l|nds-de|hai}}
* {{qualifier|in other dialects, including regional Westphalian and East Frisian as rare alternative form}} {{l|nds-de|hä}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nds-de|osx|hē}}, from {{inh|nds-de|gem-pro|*hiz||this, this one}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|nds-de|/hɛɪ̯/}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|nds-de|pronoun|g=m|genitive|sin|dative 1|em|dative 2|en|dative 3|jüm|accusative 1|em|accusative 2|en}}

# {{lb|nds-de|in some dialects, including|Münsterländisch|Mecklenburgisch|Western Pomeranian|and|Low Prussian|personal}} {{l|en|he}} {{non-gloss definition|(third-person singular masculine pronoun)}}
#: {{lb|nds-de|Low Prussian}} '''''He''' ös to lat.''
#:: '''''He''' is too late.''

====Usage notes====
* Which dative is employed depends on dialect, not on function.
* Some dialects might consider any of the inflected forms obsolete.

===Further reading===
* G. Ungt, ''Twee Geschichten in Mönstersk Platt. Ollmanns Jans in de Friümde un Ollmanns Jans up de Reise'', 1861. The text has dative ''em'' and accusative ''em'' and ''en'', and on page 22 the author notes: "Hier und in vielen Fällen steht der Dativ ''em'' statt des Accusativ ''en'' (ihm statt ihn) nach der Bequemlichkeit, die sich diese Mundart erlaubt." ''(Here and in many other places stands the dative ''em'' instead of the accusative ''en''<!-- (''him [dat.]'' instead of ''him [acc.]'') --> ...)''

----

==Hadza==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|hts|/ɦe/}}

===Verb===
{{head|hts|verb}}

# to [[say]], to [[tell]]
#:{{syn|hts|î|hiyagga}}

----

==Hawaiian==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|haw}}

===Article===
{{head|haw|article|indefinite}}

# [[a#Article|a]], [[an#Article|an]]
#: ''he wahine au''
#:: I am a woman
#: ''he wahine kāna''
#:: s/he has a wife

----

==Ido==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|io|/he/|/hɛ/}}

===Noun===
{{head|io|noun|plural|be-i}}

# {{non-gloss definition|The name of the [[Appendix:Latin script|Latin script]] letter '''[[H]]'''/'''[[h]]'''.}}

====See also====
* {{list:Latin script letter names/io}}

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|へ}} (hiragana)
# {{ja-romanization of|ヘ}} (katakana)

----

==Kholosi==

===Etymology===
Cognate with {{cog|sd|ھِي|tr=hī||this}}.

===Pronoun===
{{head|inc-kho|pronoun}}

# [[it]] {{q|proximal}}

===References===
* {{R:inc-kho:Anonby}}

----

==Kikuyu==

===Etymology===
Hinde (1904) records ''kuha'' as an equivalent of English {{m|en|give}} in “Jogowini dialect” of Kikuyu, listing also {{cog|sw|pa|kupa}}, etc. as its equivalents.<ref name="hh1904">Hinde, Hildegarde (1904). [https://archive.org/details/vocabulariesofka00hindiala ''Vocabularies of the Kamba and Kikuyu languages of East Africa''], pp. 26&ndash;27. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|ki|/hɛ/}}

===Verb===
{{head|ki|verb}} (''infinitive'' {{l|ki|kũhe}})

# to [[give]]

====Derived terms====
{{qualifier|Proverbs}}
* {{l|ki|mwana ndaheanagwo}}

====Related terms====
{{qualifier|Nouns}}
* {{l|ki|kĩheeo|kĩhe(e)o|g=c7}}
* {{l|ki|maheeo|g=c6}}

===References===
<references />
* {{R:ki:Armstrong|p=361}}

----

==Lakota==

===Particle===
{{head|lkt|particle}}

# ''[[question]]-marking particle used by females in formal speech''
#: {{ux|lkt|Mázaškaŋškaŋ tóna he?|[[what time is it]]?|inline=y}}

====Usage notes====
Informally, both men and women use this question-marking particle. When speaking formally, however, only women use it. In a formal setting, men use {{l|lkt|huwó}}, {{l|lkt|hwo}}, or {{l|lkt|huŋwó}}.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|lkt|huwó}} (used by men)

[[Category:Lakota interrogative particles]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
{{head|cmn|pinyin}}

# {{nonstandard spelling of|cmn|sc=Latn|hē}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|cmn|sc=Latn|hé}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|cmn|sc=Latn|hě}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|cmn|sc=Latn|hè}}

====Usage notes====
* {{cmn-toneless-note}}

----

==Maori==

===Article===
{{mi-art}}

# [[a]], [[an]], [[some]]: indefinite article

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|enm|ang|hē}}, from {{inh|enm|gem-pro|*hiz||this, this one}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|enm|/heː/}}

====Pronoun====
{{head|enm|pronoun|accusative|him|or|hine|genitive|his|or|hisen|possessive determiner|his}}

# {{n-g|Third-person singular masculine pronoun:}} {{l|en|he}}
#* '''14th century''', [[w:Geoffrey Chaucer|Chaucer]], ''[[s:The Canterbury Tales/General Prologue|General Prologue]]'':
#*: {{quote|enm|Benynge '''he''' was, and wonder diligent|Kind '''he''' was, and very diligent}}
# {{l|en|it}}; used also of inanimate objects
# {{lb|enm|impersonal}} {{n-g|Third-person singular impersonal pronoun:}} [[one]]; [[you]]

=====Usage notes=====
In addition to referring to male humans and animals, this pronoun was used for inanimate objects belonging to the masculine grammatical gender early in Middle English.  As grammatical gender obsolesced, this pronoun continued to refer to inanimate objects.

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{alter|enm|hee|e|a|ho|heo|hie|hye|hæ|hi|hey|ha|ȝe}}

=====Descendants=====
* {{desc|sco|he}}
* {{desc|en|he}}

====References====
* {{R:MED Online|he|pron|MED20189}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|enm|ang|hīe}}, {{m|ang|hī}}.

====Pronoun====
{{head|enm|pronoun|accusative|hem|or|he|genitive|heres|or|heren|possessive determiner|here}}

# {{n-g|Third-person plural nominative pronoun:}} {{l|en|they}}
# {{n-g|Third-person plural accusative pronoun:}} {{l|en|them}}

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{alter|enm|heo|heȝ|hey|hei|ha|hay|hy|hi|hye|hie|hig|hiȝ|hij|hio|ho|hoe|hue|huy|hui|e|i|a}}

====See also====
* {{l|enm|þei}}

====References====
* {{R:MED Online|he|pron.(3)|MED20191}}

===Etymology 3===

====Pronoun====
{{head|enm|pronoun}}

# {{alt form|enm|heo||she}}

===Etymology 4===

====Interjection====
{{head|enm|interjection}}

# {{alt form|enm|hey||hey}}

===Etymology 5===

====Noun====
{{head|enm|noun}}

# {{alt form|enm|heye||hedge}}

===Etymology 6===

====Adjective====
{{enm-adj||her|hest}}

# {{alt form|enm|heigh||high}}

===Etymology 7===

====Verb====
{{enm-verb|heth|hende|hed}}

# {{alt form|enm|hyen||to go quickly}}

----

==Middle Low German==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|gml|osx|hē}}, from {{inh|gml|gem-pro|*hiz}}.

===Pronunciation===
* '''[[Wiktionary:About_Middle_Low_German#Stem_vowels|Stem vowel]]: ê⁴'''
** {{a|originally}} {{IPA|gml|/heː/}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|gml|pronoun|head=hê}}

# {{lb|gml|third person singular masculine nominative}} [[he]]

====Declension====
{{gml-perpron}}

----

==North Frisian==

===Pronoun===
{{head|frr|pronoun}}

# {{alternative form of|frr|hi}}

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ang|gem-pro|*hiz||this, this one}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{ang-IPA|hē}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|ang|pronoun|head=hē|g=m|accusative|hine|genitive|his|dative|him}}

# {{l|en|he}}
# [[it]] (when the thing being referred to is masculine)

====Declension====
{{ang-pron-pers}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|enm|he}}
** {{desc|sco|he}}
** {{desc|en|he}}

----

==Old Saxon==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|osx|hie}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|osx|gem-pro|*hiz}}.

===Pronoun===
{{head|osx|pronoun|g=m|head=hē}}

# {{l|en|he}}

====Declension====
{{osx-decl-ppron}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|nds-de|he}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Verb===
{{head|pt|verb form}}

# {{obsolete spelling of|pt|é}}

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|sco|enm|he}}, from {{inh|sco|ang|hē}}, from {{inh|sco|gem-pro|*hiz||this, this one}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sco|/hi/|/hɪ/}}
* {{rhymes|sco|iː}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|sco|pronoun|third-person singular, masculine, nominative case; accusative|him|reflexive|himsel|possessive|his}}

# [[he]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|es|/e/|[e̞]}}
* {{homophones|es|hé|e}}
* {{rhymes|es|e}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ar|es}} {{m|ar|هَا}}; related to {{cog|pt|eis}}.

====Adverb====
{{es-adv}}

# {{lb|es|poetic|dated}} [[here]] [[is]]
# {{lb|es|biblical|dated}} [[behold]] {{q|+ {{m|es|aquí}}}}

=====Usage notes=====
* Takes pronoun suffixes, e.g. {{m|es|heme||here I am}}, and is mostly used together with {{l|es|aquí}}, {{l|es|ahí}}, {{l|es|allí}}.

=====See also=====
* {{l|es|hay}}
* {{l|es|he aquí}}

===Etymology 2===

====Noun====
{{es-noun|f}}

# {{l|en|he}}; the Hebrew letter [[ה]]

===Etymology 3===
{{nonlemma}}

====Verb====
{{head|es|verb form}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=er|mood=indicative|tense=present|pers=1|number=singular|haber}}

[[Category:es:Hebrew letter names]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
Related to {{m|sv|häva}}.

===Verb===
{{sv-verb-reg|he|r|dde}}

# {{lb|sv|regional|colloquial}} to [[put]]

====Conjugation====
{{sv-conj-wk|end=vw}}

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{tr-noun|yi|ler}}

# {{Latn-def|tr|name|H|h}}

====See also====
* {{list:Latin script letter names/tr}}

===Etymology 2===

====Particle====
{{head|tr|particle}}

# {{alternative form of|tr|ha}}

====Interjection====
{{head|tr|interjection}}

# {{alternative form of|tr|ha}}

----

==Westrobothnian==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|gmq-bot|non|þat|g=n}}, from {{inh|gmq-bot|gem-pro|*þat}} (neuter of {{m|gem-pro|*sa||that}}), from {{inh|gmq-bot|ine-pro|*tód}} (neuter of {{m|ine-pro|*só||that}}). Akin to {{cog|en|that}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|gmq-bot|hä}}
* {{l|gmq-bot|ä}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|gmq-bot|[he]|[hɛ]}} {{gmq-bot-pronu-note}}

====Pronoun====
{{head|gmq-bot|pronoun|dative|dy|or|di|genitive|diss|g=n}}

# {{lb|gmq-bot|demonstrative}} [[that]]
# {{lb|gmq-bot|personal}} [[it]]

====Conjunction====
{{head|gmq-bot|conjunction}}

# [[that]]
# [[as]], [[when]], [[simultaneously]] [[as]]

====Usage notes====
The prepositions {{m|gmq-bot|å}}/{{m|gmq-bot|a}}, {{m|gmq-bot|fyri}}, {{m|gmq-bot|i}}, {{m|gmq-bot|ti}}, {{m|gmq-bot|åt}}/{{m|gmq-bot|at}}, {{m|gmq-bot|wä}}/{{m|gmq-bot|ve}}, {{m|gmq-bot|fȯr}}, {{m|gmq-bot|onna}} and {{m|gmq-bot|unnär}} govern the accusative for direction, and dative for location or relation, while {{m|gmq-bot|diss}} is used like ''the'' when comparing things.

===Etymology 2===
Contraction of {{m|gmq-bot|hȯrä}} or {{m|gmq-bot|hvo}}.

====Adverb====
{{head|gmq-bot|adverb}}

# [[how]]
# [[what]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|gmq-bot|non|hefja}}, from {{inh|gmq-bot|gem-pro|*habjaną}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|gmq-bot|heva}}
* {{l|gmq-bot|häva}}

====Verb====
{{head|gmq-bot|verb|present|he|or|hev|or|häv|preterite|hov|supine|hyvi|or|hevi|or|hävi}}

# [[put]]