==English==

===Etymology===
{{compound|head|desk|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɛd.dɛsk/|lang=en}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Used to express [[frustration]] or irritated [[disbelief]], from the tendency of annoyed or irritated people to want to repeatedly bang their heads against their desk.}}
#* '''2008''', Shelley Adina, ''The Fruit of My Lipstick'', FaithWords (2008), ISBN 9780446538008, [https://books.google.com/books?id=6L_6QQCEOi8C&pg=PT18&dq=%22headdesk%22 unnumbered page]:
#*: '''''Headdesk'''. Gillian, Gillian. You don't need another chemistry class; you need to go to charm school.''
#* '''2008''', Susie Day, ''serafina67 *urgently requires life*'', Scholastic (2008), ISBN 9780545073523, [https://books.google.com/books?id=A3FXCG2En58C&pg=PA154&dq=%22headdesk%22 page 154]:
#*: Apparently the reason I am weirded out by the idea of Mum getting porny with Invisible Ray Who May Not Even Exist is because I am afraid this means I am being replaced. Er, dude, I am her daughter? And he is (possibly, depending on invisibility/existingness) her bloke? Not. The. Same. *'''headdesk'''*
#* '''2010''', Susane Colasanti, ''Something Like Fate'', Viking (2010), ISBN 9781101223000, [https://books.google.com/books?id=aKtmTA4vdkIC&pg=PT19&dq=%22headdesk%22 unnumbered page]:
#*: berrygirl: *'''headdesk'''* um, i don't know, maybe because we have absolutely nothing in common? at ALL?

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expressing frustration}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{label|en|slang}} To [[bang]] one's head against the [[desk]] in [[frustration]]; by extension, to express [[annoyance]] or [[exasperation]].
#* '''2011''', Jolanta Benal, ''The Dog Trainer's Complete Guide to a Happy, Well-Behaved Pet'', St. Martin's Griffin (2011), ISBN 9781429985154, [https://books.google.com/books?id=MISKbW9_p9wC&pg=PA145&dq=%22headdesking%22 page 145]:
#*: In no time at all you'll be '''headdesking''' just like a dog trainer, wailing at people's misinterpretations of their dogs.
#* '''2014''', Leigh Butler, ''Re-Reading Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time'', Tor (2014), ISBN 9781466840652, [https://books.google.com/books?id=MYXAAwAAQBAJ&pg=PT480&dq=%22headdesking%22 unnumbered page]:
#*: The only reason I am not actually '''headdesking''' at him right now is because I have apparently devoted a disproportionate amount of migraine space to him already, and I wouldn't want to have my indignation at fictional characters distributed ''unfairly, quelle horreur''!
#* '''2015''', Leah Raeder, ''Cam Girl'', Atria (2015), ISBN 9781501115004, [https://books.google.com/books?id=bcD_BgAAQBAJ&pg=PT19&dq=%22headdesking%22 unnumbered page]:
#*: She made them tell her everything, then had Ellis re-explain in layman's terms while I sat there mentally '''headdesking'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|bang head against desk}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[cs:headdesk]]
[[io:headdesk]]