{{also|Heel|hééł|ȟeel}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=heel (disambiguation)|heel}}
{{wikipedia|Heel|Heel (part of the foot)}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/hiːl/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-heel.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|iːl}}
* {{homophones|en|heal|he'll|hill}} {{qualifier|in some dialects}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|hele}}, {{m|enm|heel}}, from {{inh|en|ang|hēla}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*hanhilaz}} (compare {{cog|frr|hael}}, {{cog|nl|hiel}}, {{cog|da|-}} and {{cog|no|hæl}}, {{cog|sv|häl}}), diminutive of {{der|en|gem-pro|*hanhaz||hock}}, equivalent to {{suffix|en|hock|le|nocat=1}}. More at {{l|en|hock}}.


Heel also means to act villainously (as a wrestling term)

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[follow]] at somebody's heels; to [[chase]] closely.
#: {{ux|en|She called to her dog to '''heel'''.}}
# To add a heel to, or increase the size of the heel of (a shoe or boot).
# To [[kick]] with the heel.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To perform by the use of the heels, as in dancing, running, etc.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare TroilusIV|4|line=85-86|passage=I cannot sing, / Nor '''heel''' the high lavolt.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[arm]] with a [[gaff]], as a [[cock]] for [[fight]]ing.
# {{lb|en|golf|transitive}} To hit (the ball) with the heel of the club.
# {{lb|en|American football|transitive}} To make (a fair catch) standing with one foot forward, the heel on the ground and the toe up.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To follow at somebody's heels}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|вървя по петите}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|estalonar}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|op de hielen zitten}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kintereillä|alt=olla kintereillä}}, {{t|fi|kannoilla|alt=olla kannoilla}}
* French: {{t+|fr|talonner}}
* German: ({{t+|de|jemandem}}) {{t|de|auf den Fersen sein}} {{qualifier|with dative}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|a sarkában van}} (valakinek)
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|оди зад петици}}
* Mizo: {{t|lus|zui}}, {{t|lus|hnung zui}}, {{t|lus|ûm}}, {{t|lus|ûmzui}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|seguir de cerca}}, {{t|es|poner talón o tacón a}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kisigino}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Probably inferred from the past tense of {{m|en|hield}}, from {{inh|en|enm|heelden}}, from {{inh|en|ang|hyldan}}, {{m|ang|hieldan||to incline}}, cognate with {{cog|non|hella||to pour out}} (whence Danish {{m|da|hælde||lean, pour}}).

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|nautical}} To [[incline]] to one side; to [[tilt]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1764|author=John Nourse|title=Navigation Or, the Art of Sailing Upon the Sea|page=65|passage=The faster a ship sails, the better she will answer her helm; if she sail very slow, she will scarce steer at all. If she '''heel''' much, she won't answer the helm so well.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|incline}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|накренявам}}
* Dutch: {{qualifier|nautical}} {{t+|nl|hellen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kallistua}}
* German: {{qualifier|nautical}} {{t+|de|krängen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|no|krenge}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|krengja}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kränga}} {{qualifier|nautical}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|nautical}} The act of inclining or canting from a vertical position; a [[cant]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#*'''1808–10''', {{w|William Hickey (memoirist)|William Hickey}}, ''Memoirs of a Georgian Rake'', Folio Society 1995, p. 14:
#*:[T]he boat, from a sudden gust of wind, taking a deep '''heel''', I tumbled overboard and down I went {{...}}.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|en|heeling}}

===Etymology 3===
See {{m|en|hele||conceal, keep secret, cover}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|heels|heeling|heeled|heeled}}

# {{lb|en|rare|now especially in the phrase "heel in"}} {{altform|en|hele||cover; conceal}}.
#* '''1911''', ''Biennial Report of the State Geologist'', North Carolina Geological Survey Section, page 92:
#*: They should be dug up with a sharp mattock or grub hoe, the roots being broken as little as possible, and they should be '''heeled''' in a a cool place and protected from the sun until ready to plant. When lifted for planting from the trench in which '''heeled''' the roots should be kept covered with a wet sack.
#* '''1913''', ''Indian School Journal'', page 142:
#*: In the late fall the seedlings may be dug and '''heeled''' in very closely until all the leaves have dropped.
#* '''1916''', ''Transactions of the Indiana Horticultural Society'', page 111:
#*: Member: Did you water the trees when you set them out?
#*: Walter Vonnegut: No; I '''heeled''' the trees in as soon as they were received.
#* '''1937''', Robert Wilson, Ernest John George, ''Planting and care of shelterbelts on the northern Great Plains'', page 15:
#*: If trees are received from the nursery in the fall, they should be carefully '''heeled''' in until the planting season opens in the spring.
#* '''1976''', Keith W. Dorman, ''The Genetics and Breeding of Southern Pines'', page 66:
#*: Place seedlings in the trench. Small-stemmed seedlings may be '''heeled'''-in in bunches of 25, but large seedlings should be '''heeled'''-in loose.
#* {{rfdate|en}}, Brian Kerr, ''Lodge St Lawrence 144 Ritual'', page 34:
#*: [I] of my own free will and accord, do hereby, here at and hereon, solemnly swear that I will always '''heel''', conceal and never improperly reveal any of the secrets or mysteries of, or belonging to [the Masons].

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eehl|Ehle|Hele|hele}}

[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:en:Footwear]]
[[Category:en:People]]

----

==Afar==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|aa|/heːl/}}

===Noun===
{{aa-noun}}

# [[cardamom]]

====References====
* {{R:aa:Hassan Kamil:2015}}

[[Category:aa:Ginger family plants]]
[[Category:aa:Spices]]
[[Category:aa:Spices and herbs]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|nl|eːl}}
* {{IPA|nl|/ɦeːl/}}
* {{audio|nl|Nl-heel.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|nl|dum|hêel}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|hēl}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*hailaz}}.

====Adjective====
{{nl-adj|heler}}

# [[complete]], [[full]], [[whole]]
# [[unbroken]], [[undamaged]], [[untarnished]]
# [[big]], [[enormous]], [[significant]]

=====Inflection=====
{{nl-decl-adj|hele}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|nl|gans}}
* {{l|nl|volledig}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|nl|geheel}}
* {{l|nl|helen}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|nl|heil}}

====Adverb====
{{nl-adv}}

# [[very]]

=====Usage notes=====
Although an adverb, {{m|nl||heel}} may be inflected as well ({{m|nl|hele}}) to match the following adjective, by analogy with the inflection of adjectives in Dutch.

. For example, both of these sentences are correct:
* {{ux|nl|Dat is een '''heel''' grote boom.|That is a '''very''' large tree.}}
* {{ux|nl|Dat is een '''hele''' grote boom.|That is a '''very''' large tree.}}
The latter form may be regarded as informal and less appropriate for formal writing.

===Etymology 2===
{{nonlemma}}

====Verb====
{{head|nl|verb form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|helen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|helen}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|nl|hele}}

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Verb===
{{head|lb|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|lb|heelen||2|s|imp}}

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|dum|odt|hēl}}, from {{inh|dum|gem-pro|*hailaz}}.

===Adjective===
{{dum-adj|head=hêel}}

# [[whole]], [[full]]
# [[undamaged]], [[unbroken]]
# [[healthy]], [[healed]]
# [[honest]], [[sincere]], [[pure]]

====Inflection====
{{rfinfl|dum|adjective}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|nl|heel}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:VMNW|ID12431|II}}
* {{R:MNW|16090|II}}