{{was wotd|2007|November|19}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{term|hello|Hello}} (first attested in 1846) from {{term|hallo}} (attested 1840), from {{term|holla}}, {{term|hollo}} (attested 1588). This variant of {{term|hallo}} is often credited to [[w:Thomas Edison|Thomas Edison]] as a coinage for telephone use, but its appearance in print predates the invention of the telephone by several decades.

Possibly from the {{etyl|goh}} & {{etyl|osx}} verb {{term|halôn, holôn||to bring something, to gather}}, akin to {{etyl|en|-}} {{term|hale}} or {{term|hail}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/həˈləʊ̯/|/hɛˈləʊ̯/}}, {{SAMPA|/h@"l@U/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|hĕ-lō' ''or'' hə-lō'}}, {{IPA|/hɛˈloʊ̯/|/həˈloʊ̯/}}, {{SAMPA|/hE"loU/|/h@"loU/}}
* {{audio|En-uk-hello.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
{| class="wikitable"
! Sense
! UK
! US
|-
| {{sense|greeting}}
| {{audio|en-uk-hello-1.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
| {{audio|en-us-hello.ogg|Audio (US)}}
|-
| {{sense|telephone greeting}}
| {{audio|en-uk-hello-2.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
| {{audio|en-us-hello-2.ogg|Audio (US)}}
|-
| {{sense|call for response}}
| {{audio|en-uk-hello-3.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
| {{audio|en-us-hello-3.ogg|Audio (US)}}
|-
| {{sense|sarcastic implication}}
| {{audio|en-uk-hello-4.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
| {{audio|en-us-hello-4.ogg|Audio (US)}}
|-
| {{sense|expressing puzzlement}}
| {{audio|en-uk-hello-5.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
|
|}
* {{rhymes|əʊ}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# A [[greeting]] ([[salutation]]) said when [[meet]]ing someone or [[acknowledge|acknowledging]] someone’s [[arrival]] or [[presence]].
#: '''''Hello,''' everyone.''
# A greeting used when [[answer]]ing the [[telephone]].
#: '''''Hello'''? How may I help you?''
# A call for [[response]] if it is not clear if anyone is present or listening, or if a telephone conversation may have been [[disconnect]]ed.
#: '''''Hello'''? Is anyone there?''
# {{colloquial}} Used [[sarcastic]]ally to imply that the person addressed or referred to has done something the speaker or writer considers to be [[foolish]].
#: ''You just tried to start your car with your cell phone. '''Hello'''?''
# An expression of [[puzzlement]] or [[discovery]].
#: '''''Hello'''? What’s going on here?''

====Usage notes====
* The greeting {{term|hello}} is among the most generic and neutral in use. It may be heard in nearly all social situations and in nearly all walks of life, and is unlikely to cause offense.
* In some languages and cultures the expression for {{term|hello}} is not a mere greeting but also includes a notion of well-wishing. For example, the Urdu greeting {{ur-Arab|[[السلام علیکم]]}} (āssālam ‘alaykum) means ''May peace be upon you''.

====Quotations====
{{seeCites}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|greeting}}
** {{qualifier|AU, informal}} [[g'day]], [[hey]], [[hi]], [[howdy]]
** {{qualifier|UK, informal}} [[hallo]], [[hey]], [[hi]], [[hiya]], [[ey up]]
** {{qualifier|US, informal}} [[hallo]], [[hey]], [[hi]], [[howdy]]
** {{qualifier|IE, informal}} [[how's it going]], [[hey]], [[hi]], [[what's the craic]]
** {{qualifier|SA, informal}} [[howzit]]
** {{qualifier|slang}} [[wassup]], [[what's up]], [[yo]], [[sup]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:hello]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|greeting}} [[bye]], [[goodbye]]

====Derived terms====
* [[hello yourself, and see how you like it]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|greeting}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[hallo]]
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|tungjatjeta|xs=Albanian}}
* [[Aleut]]: [[aang]], [[draas]]
* [[American Sign Language]]: [[B@Sfhead-PalmForward B@FromSfhead-PalmForward]]
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|مرحبًا|tr=márHaban}}, {{t-|ar|أهلاً|tr='ahlan}},  {{t-|ar|سلام|tr=salaam}},  {{t-|ar|السلام عليكم|tr=al-salaam 3aláykum}} ''(formal)'' <!-- pronounced as "as-salaamu 3alaykum" but following Wiktionary conventions for the romanisation-->
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|բարև|tr=barev}}, {{t-|hy|ողջույն|tr=oġǰuyn}}
* [[Asturian]]: [[hola]]
* [[Azeri]]: {{t+|az|salam|xs=Azeri}}
* [[Basque]]: [[kaixo]]
* [[Bavarian]]: {{tø|bar|servus}},  {{tø|bar|grias di}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|прывітанне|tr=pryvitán’ne|xs=Belarusian}}, {{t-|be|вітанне|tr=vitán’ne|xs=Belarusian}} ''(informal)'', {{t-|be|здароў|tr=zdaróŭ|xs=Belarusian}} ''(colloquial)'', {{t-|be|добры дзень|tr=dóbry dzen’|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bengali: [[নমস্কার]] (nomoskar)
* Bosnian: [[zdravo#Bosnian|zdravo]], [[ćao#Bosnian|ćao]], [[merhaba#Bosnian|merhaba]], [[selam#Bosnian|selam]]
* Bulgarian: [[здравей]] (zdravéy, ''familiar''), [[здравейте]] (zdravéyte, ''formal'')
* Burmese: [[မဂဵလာပါ။]] (mingguhlaba)
* [[Catalan]]: [[hola]]
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: [[你好]] (nei5 hou2)
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|你好|tr=nǐhǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|formal}} {{t-|cmn|您好|tr=nínhǎo|sc=Hani}}
*: [[Wu]]: [[你好]] (non ho)
* Croatian: [[zdravo#Croatian|zdravo]], [[ćao#Croatian|ćao]], [[bok#Croatian|bok]], [[bog]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ahoj}}, {{t-|cs|nazdar}} (''informal''), [[dobrý den]] (''formal'')
* Danish: [[hej]], [[dav]], [[god dag]] ''(formal)'', {{t+|da|hallo}}
* Dutch: [[hallo]], [[hoi]], [[dag]] ''(informal)'', [[goede dag]] ''(formal)''
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|saluton|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|tere}}, {{t-|et|hei}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|hey|xs=Faroese}}, {{t-|fo|halló|xs=Faroese}}
* [[Fijian]]: [[bula]]
* Filipino: [[hoy]], [[kumustá]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|terve}}, {{t+|fi|moi}}, {{t+|fi|hei}}, {{t+|fi|moikka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|salut}} {{qualifier|informal}}, {{t+|fr|bonjour}}
* [[Galician]]: [[ola]]
* Georgian: {{t+|ka|გამარჯობა|tr=gamardžoba|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|hallo}}, {{t+|de|guten Tag}}, {{t+|de|servus}}, {{t+|de|grüß Gott}}
* [[Gilbertese]]: [[mauri]]
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{tø|grc|χαίρε|tr=khaire|xs=Ancient Greek}}, {{tø|grc|χαίρε καί ὑγίαινε|tr=khere ke iyiene|xs=Ancient Greek}}
*: Modern: {{t+|el|γεια|tr=geia}}, {{t|el|γεια σου|tr=geia sou}}, {{qualifier|formal}} {{t|el|γεια σας|tr=geia sas}}, {{t|el|χαίρετε|tr=chaírete}}
* [[Greenlandic]]: {{t+|kl|aluu|xs=Greenlandic}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|bonjou}}
* [[Hausa]]: [[sannu]]
* Hawaiian: [[aloha]]
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|שלום|alt=שָׁלוֹם|tr=shalóm}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|नमस्ते|tr=namasté|xs=Hindi}}, {{t|hi|नमस्कार|tr=namaskār|xs=Hindi}}, {{t-|hi|सलाम|tr=salām|xs=Hindi}} {{qualifier|used by Muslims}}
* [[Hmong]]: [[nyob zoo]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szia}}, {{t|hu|sziasztok|p}} {{italbrac|informal}}; {{t+|hu|szervusz}}, {{t-|hu|szervusztok|p}} {{formal}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|halló}}, {{t+|is|hæ}}, [[hæ]] [[hæ]], [[góðan dag]], [[góðan daginn]]
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|hai|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[bon die]]
* Irish: {{t|ga|Dia dhuit|xs=Irish}} {{formal}}, {{t|ga|Dia is Muire dhuit|xs=Irish}} {{italbrac|formal|response}}, {{t|ga|haileo|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ciao}}, {{t+|it|salve}}, {{t+|it|buongiorno}}
* [[Iu Mien]]: {{tø|ium|yiem longx nyei}}
* Japanese: [[おはようございます]] (ohayō gozaimásu = ''good morning, polite''), [[こんにちは]] (kónnichi wa = ''good day''), [[こんばんは]] (kómban wa = ''good evening''), [[おはよう]] (ohayō = ''good morning, informal'')
* [[Jèrriais]]: [[bouônjour]]
* [[Karachay-Balkar]]: {{tø|krc|кюнюгюз ашхы болсун|tr=künügüz aşhı bolsun!|sc=Cyrl}}
* Kazakh: {{Cyrl|[[сәлем]]}} (səlem), [[салам]] (salam), {{Cyrl|[[сәлеметсіздер]]}} (səlemetsizder, ''formal'')
* [[Khmer]]: [[ជំរាបសួរ]] (johm ree-uhp soo-uh), {{t|km|សួស្ដី|tr=soursdey|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Korean: {{ko-inline|안녕하십니까|annyeonghasimnikka}} (formal) {{ko-inline|안녕하세요|annyeonghaseyo}} (neutrally formal), {{ko-inline|안녕|annyeong}} (informal)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Lao]]: {{t-|lo|ສະບາຍດີ|tr=sa-bàai-dìi|sc=Laoo|xs=Lao}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|salve}}, {{t+|la|ave}}
* Lithuanian: [[labas]], [[sveikas]] {{italbrac|informal}}, [[sveiki]] {{formal}}
* [[Livonian]]: [[tēriņtš]]
* [[Lojban]]: {{t-|jbo|coi|xs=Lojban}}
* [[Luo]]: {{tø|luo|msawa|xs=Luo}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|здраво|tr=zdrávo}}
* [[Malagasy]]: {{t|mg|Manao ahoana|xs=Malagasy}}?, {{t-|mg|salama|xs=Malagasy}} {{qualifier|Tsimihety}}
* Maltese: [[bonġu]] (before 12:00 p.m.), [[bonswa]] (after 12:00 p.m.)
* [[Mapudungun]]: {{tø|arn|mari mari}}
* [[Michif]]: {{tø|crg|Tánishi}},  {{tø|crg|boñjour}}
* [[Mohawk]]: [[sekoh]]
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|сайн уу|alt=сайн уу?|tr=sain uu?|sc=Cyrl|xs=Mongolian}} (informal), {{t|mn|сайн байна уу|alt=сайн байна уу?|tr=sain baina uu?|sc=Cyrl|xs=Mongolian}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|yáʼátʼééh}}
* [[Norfuk]]: {{tø|cpe-nor|watawieh}}
* Norwegian: [[hallo]], [[hei]], [[god dag]] {{formal}}, [[halla]] {{italbrac|informal}},  {{t|no|heisann}}
* [[Palauan]]: [[alii]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[سلام]]}} (salâm); ''religious:'' {{fa-Arab|[[سلام علیکم]]}} (salâmo aleykom); literary: {{fa-Arab|[[درود]]}} (dorud); ''morning:'' {{fa-Arab|[[صبح بخیر]]}} (sobh bekheyr), ''afternoon:'' {{fa-Arab|[[ظهر بخیر]]}} (zohr bekheyr), ''evening:'' {{fa-Arab|[[عصر بخیر]]}} (asr bekheyr)
* Polish: [[cześć]] {{italbrac|informal}}, [[witaj]], [[witajcie]], [[witam]] (''more formal''), [[dzień dobry]] {{formal}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|oi}}, {{t+|pt|olá}},  {{qualifier|slang}} {{t|pt|e aí|alt=e aí?}}
* [[Punjabi]]: [[ਸਤਿ ਸ਼੍ਰੀ ਅਕਾਲ]] (sati śrī akāla)
* Romanian: [[salut]], [[bun]]ă, [[noroc]] (''informal''), [[bună ziua]] (''formal''), [[servus]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|привет|tr=privét}} ''(informal)'', {{t+|ru|здорово|tr=zdoróvo}} ''(colloquial)'', {{t+|ru|здравствуйте|tr=zdrávstvuyte}} ''(formal)'', {{t+|ru|добрый день|tr=dóbryj den’}}
* Sanskrit: [[नमस्कार]] (''namaskāram'')
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|halò|xs=Scottish Gaelic}} (''informal''), {{t-|gd|latha math|xs=Scottish Gaelic}} (''formal''), {{qualifier|informal}} {{t-|gd|hòigh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|здраво|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sr|ћао|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sr|zdravo}}, {{t|sr|ćao}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[ciao]], [[salutamu]]
* [[Sinhalese]]: {{t|si|හලෝ|tr=halō|sc=Sinh|xs=Sinhalese}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|ahoj}}, {{t-|sk|servus}} (''informal''), {{t-|sk|dobrý deň}} (''formal'')
* Slovene: [[živjo]], [[zdravo]] {{italbrac|informal}}; [[dober dan]], [[pozdravljeni]] {{formal}}
* [[Sotho]]: {{t+|st|dumela|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hola}}, {{t|es|buen día}}, {{t-|es|qué tal}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|jambo|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] {{formal}}, [[tjena]], [[hejsan]] {{italbrac|informal}}
* Swiss German: [[sälü]], [[hoi]], [[hallo]]
* [[Tagalog]]: [[kamusta]], [[kumusta]]
* [[Tamil]]: [[வணக்கம்]] (vanakkam)
* [[Telugu]]: [[నమసకారం]](namaskaaram)
* Thai: {{t+|th|สวัสดี|m|f|tr=sàwàtdee}}, {{t-|th|สวัสดีครับ|m|tr=sàwàtdee kráp}}, {{t-|th|สวัสดีค่ะ|f|tr=sàwàtdee kâ}}
* [[Tswana]]: [[dumela]] ''({{s}}; e.g. "Dumela, rra" = "hello sir")''; [[dumelang]] ''({{p}}; e.g. "Dumelang, borra" = "hello gentlemen")''
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|merhaba}}
* [[Tuvan]]: [[экии]] (ekii)
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|привіт|tr=pryvít|xs=Ukrainian}} {{qualifier|informal}}, {{t|uk|добрий день|tr=dobrýj den'|xs=Ukrainian}} {{qualifier|formal}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|سلام|tr=salām|xs=Urdu}},  {{t|ur|نمستے|tr=namasté|xs=Urdu}},  {{t|ur|نمسکار|tr=namaskār|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: [[xin chào]], [[chào]] ([[ông]], [[bà#Vietnamese|bà]], [[cô#Vietnamese|cô]], [[anh#Vietnamese|anh]], [[chị]], [[em#Vietnamese|em]], [[quí vị]] — depending on gender and relative social status of person addressed)
* [[Volapük]]: {{t-|vo|glidis|xs=Volapük}}
* Welsh: [[helo]], [[bore da]] (''good morning''), [[dydd da]] (''good day'')
* [[West Frisian]]: [[hallo]], [[hoi]]
* [[Xhosa]]: [[molo]] {{s}}, [[molweni]] {{p}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|שלום־עליכם|tr=sholem-aleykhem|xs=Yiddish}}, {{t|yi|גוט־מאָרגן|tr=gut-morgn|xs=Yiddish}}
* [[Zulu]]: [[sawubona]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|when answering the telephone}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: hallo
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|آلو|tr=’āllú, ’ālló}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ալլո|tr=allo}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|алё|tr=alio|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: [[halo#Bosnian|halo]], [[molim#Bosnian|molim]]
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ало|tr=álo}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[digui]], [[si]], [[hola]], {{t|ca|mani'm?}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|喂|tr=wèi|sc=Hani}} (often pronounced: wéi), {{qualifier|formal}} {{t-|cmn|您好|tr=nínhǎo|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: [[molim]], [[izvolite]], [[halo]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|haló}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hallo}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hallo}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|hallo}}, {{t-|et|halloo}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|haloo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|allô}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ალო|tr=alo|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}, {{t|ka|გისმენთ|tr=gisment‘|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|hallo}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εμπρός|tr=emprós}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|halló}}
* Icelandic: [[halló]], [[hæ]], [[hæ]] [[hæ]], [[góðan dag]], [[góðan daginn]]
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|halo|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[hallo]]
* Irish: {{t|ga|haileo|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pronto}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|もしもし|tr=móshi-móshi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[여보세요]] (yeoboseyo)
* [[Lao]]: {{t-|lo|ອາໂຫລ|tr='aa-loo|sc=Laoo|xs=Lao}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|alio|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Lojban]]: {{t+|jbo|re'i|xs=Lojban}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|ало|tr=álo}}
* Maltese: [[ħellow]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hallo}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[اَلو]]}}  (alo)
* Polish: [[halo#Polish|halo]], [[słucham]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|alô}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|alo}}, {{t-|ro|haló}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|алло|tr=alló, aljó}}, {{qualifier|colloquial}} {{t+|ru|алё|tr=aljó}}, {{t+|ru|слушать|alt=слушаю|tr=slúšaju}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|halò|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: [[хало#Serbian|хало]] /  [[halo#Serbian|halo]], [[молим#Serbian|молим]] / [[molim#Serbian|molim]]
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|haló}}
* Slovene: [[halo]], [[prosim]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aló}} {{italbrac|Latin America}}, [[bueno]] {{italbrac|Mexico}}, [[diga]] {{italbrac|Spain - also: [[dígame]]}}, {{t+|es|hola}} {{italbrac|Argentina|Uruguay}}, [[oigo]] {{italbrac|Cuba}}
* Swedish: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] {{formal}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[magandang tanghali po]] (good day)
* Thai: {{Thai|[[สวัสดีครับ]]}} (sàwàtdee kráp) {{m}}, {{Thai|[[สวัสดีค่ะ]]}} (sàwàtdee kâ) {{f}} (formal) {{Thai|[[ฮัลโหล]]}} (hanlǒh) (informal)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|alo}}, {{t+|tr|efendim}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|алло|tr=alló|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t|uk|слухаю|tr=slukhaju|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|a-lô|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|helo|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[hallo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|is anyone there?}}
* {{trreq|Afrikaans}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|աու|tr=au}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|гэй|tr=héi|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: [[halo#Bosnian|halo]]?
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|hola}}?, {{t|ca|na maria?}}
* Chinese:
*: {{trreq|Cantonese}}
*: Mandarine:[[有人吗]]？ (yǒu rén ma)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|halo}}?
* Czech: {{t-|cs|haló}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hallo}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hallo}}?
* Estonian: [[halloo]]?
* Finnish: [[huhuu]]?
* French: [[eh oh]] ?, [[oh eh]] ?, [[allô]] ?
* German: {{t+|de|hallo}}?, [[jemand da]]?
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* Icelandic: [[halló]]?
* [[Interlingua]]: [[hallo]]?
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[c'è nessuno]]?
* Japanese: [[おーい]] (ōi = ''Hi, Hey, formal and informal''), [[すみませーん]] (sumimasēn = ''I'm sorry, formal''), ([[ちょっと]] chotto = ''Hey, informal'')
* Korean: [[계세요]]? (gyeseyo?)
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|sveiki|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Lojban]]: {{t+|jbo|ri'e|xs=Lojban}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[ало]]? (aló?)
* Maltese: [[hawn xi ħadd]]?
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|Hallo}}?
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|olá}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|alo}}?, {{t-|ro|haló}}?
* Russian: {{t|ru|ау}}! (aú)
* Serbian: [[хало#Serbian|хало]]? / [[halo#Serbian|halo]]?
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|haló}}
* Slovene: [[halo]]?
* Spanish: ¿[[aló]]?, [[¡Hola! ¿Hay alguien?]] {{italbrac|Latin America}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hallå}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[มีใครอยู่มั้ย]]?}} (mee krai yòo mái?)
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|helo?|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sarcastic: that was foolish}}
* {{trreq|Afrikaans}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* Chinese:
*: {{trreq|Cantonese}}
*: {{trreq|Mandarine}}
* Dutch: [[ja, hallo]]!
* Estonian: [[halloo]]!, [[tere hommikust]]!, [[tere tali]]!
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|haloo}}!
* German: {{t+|de|hallo}}!, [[halloho]]!
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[halló]]!
* Japanese: [[やれやれ]] (yareyare, ''formal and informal''), [[やれやれだぜ]] (yareyare daze, ''informal''), [[大丈夫]]？ (daijōbu? = ''Are you all right?, formal and informal''), [[大丈夫かよ]] (daijōbu kayo? = ''Are you all right?, more informal''), [[マジ]]？ (maji? = ''Are you sure?, informal''), [[マジかよ]]？ (maji kayo? = ''Are you sure?, more informal'')
* [[Macedonian]]: [[ало]]oo? (alooo?)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hallo}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|halo}}!
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|men hallå}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expression of puzzlement}}
* {{trreq|Afrikaans}}
* {{trreq|Arabic}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|але|tr=alé|xs=Belarusian}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|conill!}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hallo}}!
* {{trreq|French}}
* German: {{t+|de|hallo}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|halló}}
* Japanese: [[本当]]？ (hontō, ''Sure?, formal''), [[冗談だろ]]？ (jōdan daro, ''You are joking, formal and informal''), [[大丈夫]]？ (daijōbu? = ''Are you all right?, formal and informal''), [[大丈夫かよ]]？ (daijōbu kayo? = ''Are you all right?, more informal''), [[マジ]]？ (maji? = ''Are you sure?, You're kidding!, informal''), [[マジかよ]] (maji kayo? = ''Are you sure?, You're kidding!, more informal'')
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Lojban]]: {{t+|jbo|ki'a|xs=Lojban}}
* {{trreq|Norwegian}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|hej}}!
* {{trreq|Swedish}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[hallo]]!
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[ало]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Chamorro}}: [[hafa dai]]
* {{ttbc|Fijian}}: {{t+|fj|bula|xs=Fijian}}
* {{ttbc|Galician}}: [[hola]]
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[kia ora]]
* {{ttbc|Marshallese}}: yokwe<!-- not wikified due to uncertainty of orthography -->
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Nahuatl}}: [[niltze]]
* {{ttbc|Nepali}}: <!--insert Devanagari spelling--> (namaskar)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[servo]]
* {{ttbc|Tatar}}: [[isänme]](sez)!, [[sälâm]]! (1), [[allo]], [[hallow]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{ur-Arab|[[آداب]]}} (ādāb), {{ur-Arab|[[السلام علیکم]]}} (āssālam ‘alaykum)
* {{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[cервус]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# "[[hello#Interjection|Hello]]!" or an equivalent greeting.
#* {{quote-news|year=2007|date=April 29|author=Stephanie Rosenbloom|title=A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood|work=New York Times|url=http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/fashion/29condo.html
|passage=In many new buildings, though, neighbors are venturing beyond tight-lipped '''hellos''' at the mailbox.}}

===See also===
* [[greeting]]
* [[:Category:Greetings]]

[[Category:English phrasebook]]
[[Category:Greetings]]

[[bs:hello]]
[[cs:hello]]
[[cy:hello]]
[[de:hello]]
[[el:hello]]
[[es:hello]]
[[eo:hello]]
[[eu:hello]]
[[fa:hello]]
[[fr:hello]]
[[ko:hello]]
[[hi:hello]]
[[io:hello]]
[[iu:hello]]
[[it:hello]]
[[kl:hello]]
[[kn:hello]]
[[lo:hello]]
[[lv:hello]]
[[lt:hello]]
[[li:hello]]
[[hu:hello]]
[[nl:hello]]
[[ja:hello]]
[[pl:hello]]
[[sg:hello]]
[[simple:hello]]
[[fi:hello]]
[[sv:hello]]
[[ta:hello]]
[[th:hello]]
[[ti:hello]]
[[vi:hello]]
[[yi:hello]]
[[zh:hello]]