==English==

===Etymology 1===
Altered<ref>"Hella", in ''Berkeley High School Slang Dictionary'', '''2004''', North Atlantic Books,
[http://books.google.com/books?id=Wylb8i0nTFIC&pg=PA38&dq=helluv&sig=U28HCzcekEQ1xn1lr5R1CFogDs4 page 38]</ref> from intensifier {{m|en|hella}} (originally [[w:Northern California|Northern California]] slang). See also [[w:Hella (word)|Wikipedia:''Hella (word)'']].

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{label|en|slang|chiefly N CA}} Intensifier, signifies an abundance of a thing; [[much]] or [[many]].
#: ''Hey, if you guys get the munchies, there's '''helluv''' candy in the cupboard.''
#* '''2006''', Joylynn Jossel, ''When Souls Mate'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=6GY1v6CmCXkC&pg=PP8&dq=helluv&lr=&sig=95Jo6JMU_ZnvJXZL9eZfYmOk14Y]
#*: […] and all of the other people I have met who show me '''helluv''' love when I come through your town.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l|en|mad}}

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}
# {{label|en|slang|chiefly N CA}} Intensifier (modifies verbs); to a large extent; [[totally]]; [[very much]].
#: ''Dude, I '''helluv''' want to go to the show with you, but I'm soooo grounded.''
#* '''2002''', Peggy Vincent, ''Baby Catcher: Chronicles of a Modern Midwife'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=LHlQxW68nfYC&pg=PA225&dq=helluv&lr=&sig=bwXyIRbEAOtYNvTzUQjVRZI7_zA page 225]
#*: “[…]. This '''helluv''' hurts.” We grownups burst out laughing, and I hugged her bony adolescent shoulders.
# {{label|en|slang|chiefly N CA}} Intensifier (modifies adjectives); to a large degree; [[extremely]]; [[exceedingly]].
#: ''That new girl is '''helluv''' sexy.''
#* '''2002''', Peggy Vincent, ''Baby Catcher: Chronicles of a Modern Midwife'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=LHlQxW68nfYC&pg=PA226&dq=helluv&lr=&sig=ZjN3r5TaSnTBqIcXNcXxNRQq_PA page 226]
#*: “We had the baby, like two minutes ago. It was '''helluv''' icy. […] Naeema was so brave, just hellabitchin', and I delivered the baby myself 'cause we have this hellafresh midwife who taught me how to do it.”
#* '''2003''', Adrienne Anderson, ''Word: Rap, Politics and Feminism'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=j3kx-pqoSewC&pg=PA14&dq=helluv&lr=&sig=lSfUATVjJW2QQl2zRn0nwOZ-sBc page 14]
#*: “Man, if I had never been to California and read that magazine, I would be '''helluv''' scared to come out there!”

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|extremely, modifies adjectives}} {{l|en|wicked}} (''NE US'')

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{label|en|slang|chiefly N CA}} [[for sure|For sure]]; [[totally]]; [[hell yeah]]; used as a strong affirmation of something that was just said, accomplished, or revealed.
#: ''"Hey, you wanna come to the concert tonight?" "Oh, '''helluv'''!"''

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|helluva}}
* {{l|en|hella}}
* {{l|en|hell}}
* {{l|en|the hell}}

====Usage notes====
* To many speakers, ''helluv'' is the more emphatic, or more intensified form of {{m|en|hella}}.

===Etymology 2===
Shortened form, or [[elision]], of phrases like "hell of" or "hell have", approximating casual speech in writing.

====Contraction====
{{en-adj|-}}
# {{label|en|colloquial}} Elision of "hell of".
#* '''1977''', Curt Johnson, ''The Morning Light'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=-TI3AAAAIAAJ&q=helluv&pgis=1 page 214]
#*: Oh, you goddam-betcha, Julie, it's one helluva lot better — one '''HELLUV''' A lot better — to be born dirt-poor. Course then you get to stay that way the rest of your life.
#* '''1997''', [[w:Kat Martin|Kat Martin]], ''Innocence Undone'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=BflckKXNVNoC&pg=PA297&dq=helluv&sig=5EXF4WemCDXCHHN55ZWu7RdMfoA page 297]
#*: “That's the '''helluv''' it — beggin' yer pardon, miss...”
# {{label|en|colloquial}} Elision of "the hell of".
#* '''1997''', [[w:Kat Martin|Kat Martin]], ''Innocence Undone'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=BflckKXNVNoC&pg=PA173&dq=helluv&lr=&sig=9IlxoQ8jN_4kJ-JqwQx5drgFbKk page 173]
#*: “'''Helluv''' it is,” he grumbled. “I was thinking of marrying her myself. Wrote her a letter, but it didn't get posted in time.”
# {{label|en|colloquial}} Elision of "hell have"
#* '''1973''', Richard Cowper, ''Clone'', page 99
#*: Where the '''helluv''' you been?

===References===
<references/>