{{selfref|For Wiktionary's help, see [[Help:Contents]].}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|whether|city|held|341|help|number|alone|body}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|hĕlp}}, {{IPA|/hɛlp/}}, {{SAMPA|/hElp/}}
*{{audio|en-us-help.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}} ''help''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} Action given to provide [[assistance]]; [[aid]].
#:* I need some '''help''' with my homework.
# {{uncountable}} A person or persons who provide assistance with some task.
#:* He was a great '''help''' to me when I was moving house.
# {{countable}} A person employed to help in the maintenance of a house.
#:* The '''help''' is coming round this morning to clean.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''action given to provide assistance''): [[aid]], [[assistance]]
*(''person or persons who provide assistance''):
*(''person employed to help in the maintenance of a house''):

=====Derived terms=====
<!--terms derived from NOUN senses-->
*[[helpful]]
*[[helpmeet]]
*[[home help]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|action given to provide assistance}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[مساعدة]]}} (musáʕada) {{f}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[ajuda]]
*Chinese: [[幫]] / [[帮]] (bāng)
*Czech: [[pomoc]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[hjælp]]
*Dutch: [[hulp]]
*Esperanto: [[helpo]]
*Estonian: [[abi]]
*Finnish: [[ohje]], [[apu]]
*French: [[aide]] {{f}} (1)
*[[Frisian]]: help
*German: [[Hilfe]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[βοήθεια]] (víthia) {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[עזרה]] (ezra) {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[segítség]]
*Icelandic: [[hjálp]] {{f}}, [[fulltingi]] {{n}} (archaic)
*[[Ido]]: [[helpo]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[adjuta]], [[succurso]]
*Italian: [[aiuto]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[助け]] ([[たすけ]], tasuke), [[手助け]] (tedasuke)
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: 
*:[[Kurmanji]]: [[alîkarî]] {{f}}, [[destek]] {{f}}, [[yarmetî]] {{f}}, [[komekî]] {{f}}, [[piştevanî]] {{f}}, [[piştgirî]] {{f}}, [[misaede]] {{f}} 
*:[[Sorani]]: {{KUchar|[[یارمه‌تی]]}}
*Latin: [[auxilium]] {{n}}
*Lithuanian: [[pagalba]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[Hëllef]]
*[[Malayalam]]: [[സഹായം]] (sahaayam)
*Maltese: [[għajnuna]]
*Norwegian: [[hjelp]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[کمک]]}} (komak), {{FAchar|[[یاری]]}} (yâri)
*Polish: [[pomoc]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[ajuda]] {{f}}, [[socorro]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[ajutor]] {{n}}, [[asistenţă]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[помощь]] (pómoš) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[pomoč]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[ayuda]] {{f}}, [[socorro]] {{m}}, [[auxilio]] {{m}}
*Swahili: [[msaada]]
*Swedish: [[hjälp]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[సహాయము]] (sahaayamu), [[సాయము]] (saayamu)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ความช่วยเหลือ]]}} (kwaam chûay lĕua)
*Turkish: [[yardım]]
*Vietnamese: [[giúp]], [[giúp đỡ]], [[trợ giúp]], [[hỗ trợ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person or persons who provides assistance with some task}}
*[[Malayalam]]: [[സഹായി]] (sahaayi)
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: [[ajutor]] {{m}}, [[ajutoare]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[помощник]] (pomóšnik) {{m}}, [[помощница]] (pomóšnica) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person employed to help in the maintenance of a house}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[помощник]] (pomóšnik) {{m}}, [[помощница]] (pomóšnica) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{OE.}} ''[[helpan]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb2|'''help'''|'''[[helps]]'''|'''[[helped]]''' ''or'' (''archaic'') '''[[holp]]'''|'''[[helped]]''' ''or'' (''archaic'') '''[[holpen]]'''|'''[[helping]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To provide [[assistance]] to (someone or something).
#:* He '''helped''' his grandfather cook breakfast.
#:* If you’re hungry, '''help''' yourself to some of the appetizers.
# {{transitive}} To contribute in some way to.
#:* The white paint on the walls '''helps''' make the room look brighter.
# {{intransitive}} To provide assistance.
#:* She was struggling with the groceries, so I offered to '''help'''.
# {{transitive}} To [[avoid]]; to [[prevent]]; to [[refrain]] from; to [[restrain]] (oneself).  Usually used in the negative with ''[[can]]''.
#:* We couldn't '''help''' noticing that you were late.
#:* She’s trying not to smile, but she can't '''help''' herself.
#:* Try to '''help''' from doing that again.
#:* No one will make a goal today if I can '''help''' it.

====Usage notes====
* In uses 1, 2 and 3, this is a [[catenative]] verb that takes the ''to infinitive''. It can also take the bare infinitive with no change in meaning. 
* In use 4, '''can't help''' is a [[catenative]] verb that takes the ''gerund (-ing)''.
* For more information, see [[Appendix:English catenative verbs]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{italbrac-colon|provide assistance to}} [[aid]], [[assist]], [[come to someone's aid|come to the aid of]], [[help out]]
* {{italbrac-colon|contribute in some way to}} [[contribute]] to
* {{italbrac-colon|provide assistance}} [[assist]]

=====Derived terms=====
<!--terms derived from VERB senses-->
*[[helper]]
*[[helping]]<!--noun: a serving-->
*[[help oneself]]
*[[help out]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|transitive: provide assistance to (someone or something)}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ساعد]]}} (sáʕada)
*[[Basque]]: [[lagundu]]
*Bulgarian: [[помагам]] (pomagam)
*[[Catalan]]: [[ajudar]]
*Czech: [[pomoct]]
*Dutch: [[helpen]]
*Esperanto: [[helpi]]
*Estonian: [[aitama]]
*Finnish: [[auttaa]], [[opastaa]]
*French: [[aider]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[helpe]]
*German: [[helfen]] [[:de:helfen|^]]
*Greek: [[βοηθώ]] (vithó), [[συντρέχω]] (sintrékho)
*Hungarian: [[segít]]
*Icelandic: [[hjálpa]]
*[[Ido]]: [[helpar]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[adjutar]], [[succurrer]]
*Italian: [[aiutare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Indonesian: [[bantu]]
*Japanese: [[助ける]] ([[たすける]], tasukeru)
*Lithuanian: [[padėti]]
*Old English: [[helpan]]
*Polish: [[pomagać]]
*Portuguese: [[ajudar]], [[socorrer]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[کمک کردن]]}} (komak kardan), {{FAchar|[[یاری کردن]]}} (yâri kardan)
*Romanian: [[ajuta]], [[asista]]
*Russian: [[помогать]]/[[помочь]] (pomogát’/pomóč)
*Slovene: [[pomagati]]
*Spanish: [[ayudar]]
*Swahili: [[kusaidia]]
*Swedish: [[hjälpa]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[tumulong]], [[tulungan]]
*Thai: [[ช่วยเหลือ]] (chuey-lure)
*[[Telugu]]: [[సహాయపడు]] (sahaayapaDu), [[సాయపడు]] (saayapaDu)
*Turkish: [[yardım etmek]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|contribute in some way to}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: [[ajuta]]
*Russian: [[помогать]]/[[помочь]] (pomogát’/pomóč)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: provide assistance}}
*French: [[aider]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[aiutare]]
*Romanian: [[ajuta]], [[asista]]
*Russian: [[помогать]]/[[помочь]] (pomogát’/pomóč)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Interjection====
'''help!'''

# I/we [[desperate]]ly need assistance!
#:* '''Help'''! We're under attack!

=====Synonyms=====
*[[mayday]]! (''used by vessels and aircraft'')

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[مساعدة]]}} (musāʕda)
*[[Catalan]]: [[socors]]!
*Chinese: [[救命]]！ (jiùmìng)!, [[帮助]] (bāngzhù)
*Czech: [[pomoc]]!
*Dutch: [[help]]!, [[hulp]]!
*Esperanto: [[helpu min]]!
*Finnish: [[apua]]!, [[auttakaa]]!
*French: [[au secours]]&nbsp;!, [[à l'aide]]&nbsp;!
*German: [[Hilfe]]!
*Greek: [[βοήθεια]]! (víthia)
*Hungarian: [[segítség]]!
*Italian: [[aiuto]]!
*Japanese: [[助けて]]！ (tasukete)
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|hewar}}!
*Lithuanian: [[gelbėkit]]!, [[padėkit]]!, [[pagalbos]]!
*Maltese: [[ajjut]]!
*Polish: [[pomocy]]!, [[ratunku]]!
*Portuguese: [[socorro]]! or [[ajuda]]!
*Romanian: [[ajutor]]!
*Russian: [[помогите]]! (pomogíte), [[на помощь]]! (na pómoš'), [[спасите]]! (spasíte)
*Slovene: [[na pomoč]]!
*Spanish: ¡[[socorro]]!, ¡[[auxilio]]!
*Swedish: [[hjälp]]!
{{bottom}}

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English control verbs]]
[[Category:Phrasebook]]
[[Category:Positive words]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Common {{Ger.}} *''helpo''<!--do not wikify non-existent words-->

===Noun===
'''help''' {{f}}

# [[help#English|help]]

[[Category:Old English nouns]]

[[ar:help]]
[[cs:help]]
[[el:help]]
[[es:help]]
[[fa:help]]
[[fr:help]]
[[ko:help]]
[[io:help]]
[[it:help]]
[[kk:help]]
[[hu:help]]
[[nl:help]]
[[ja:help]]
[[pl:help]]
[[pt:help]]
[[ro:help]]
[[ru:help]]
[[fi:help]]
[[ta:help]]
[[vi:help]]
[[uk:help]]
[[zh:help]]