==English==

===Etymology 1===
A sound uttered in imitation of clearing the throat

====Pronunciation====
* {{audio|en-us-hem.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛm}}

====Interjection====
{{infl|en|interjection}}!

# Used to fill in the gap of a pause with a vocalized sound.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Someone who is afraid of change to the point of total inaction.  (From a book by Spencer Johnson, M.D., ''Who moved my cheese'', about a character who was always against change.)

====See also====
* [[ahem]]
* [[haw]]

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English {{term|hem|lang=enm}}, {{term|hemm|lang=enm}}, in turn from Old English {{term|hemm|lang=ang}} and related to Middle High German {{term|hemmen||to hem in|lang=gmh}}, Old Norse {{term|hemja||to hem in, restrain|lang=non}}. The PIE root gave rise also to Armenian {{term|քամել|tr=k'amel||to press, wring|sc=Armn|lang=hy}} and Russian {{term|ком||lump|sc=Cyrl|tr=kom|lang=ru}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The border of an article of clothing doubled back and stitched together.
# A rim or margin of something.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|border of an article of clothing doubled back and stitched together}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|päärme}},  {{t|fi|palte}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ourlet|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Saum|m}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|faldur|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|orlo|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bainha|f}}
* Serbian: [[rub]], [[porub]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rim or margin}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|helma}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[dobladillo]] {{m}}, [[ruedo]] {{m}}, [[bastilla]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|hem|m|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} (''in sewing'') To make a hem.
# {{intransitive}} (''in speaking'') To make a sound like ''hem'' (usually coupled with ''"haw"'' as in "[[hem and haw|hemmed and hawed]].")
# {{transitive}}: To put hem on an article of clothing, to edge or put a border on something.
# {{transitive}}: To surround something or someone in a [[confine|confining]] way.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to make a hem}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|päärmätä}}, {{t|fi|palttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a sound like "hem"}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hymähtää}} (''once''), {{t|fi|hymähdellä}} (''repeatedly'')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to put hem on an article of clothing}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zomen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|päärmätä}}, {{t|fi|palttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ourler}}
* German: {{t-|de|säumen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|falda}}
* Portuguese: fazer a [[bainha]] de
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to surround something or someone in a confining way}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ympäröidä}}
* German: {{t+|de|einengen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[hemmed]]
* [[hemming]]
* [[hemmer]]

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|him|lang=ang}}, {{term|heom|lang=ang}}, originally a dative plural form but in Middle English coming to serve as an accusative plural as well.

====Pronoun====
{{infl|en|pronoun}}

# {{obsolete}} [[them|Them]] (typically after a preposition, or otherwise with accusative or dative force).

----

==Dutch==

===Pronoun===
'''hem'''

# {{personal|lang=Dutch}} ''Third-person singular, masculine, objective:'' [[him]].
#: ''Stuur dat maar naar hem.'' &mdash; Send that to him.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

----

==Latin==

===Interjection===
{{la-interj}}

# [[eh]]?, [[well well]]! (''expressing surprise'')

====Related terms====
* [[ehem]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-hem.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''hem'''

# [[home]]; one's dwelling place, as in a house or a more general geographical place; the abiding place of the affections.

===Adverb===
'''hem'''

# to one's home

===See also===
* [[hemåt]]
* [[hemma]]
* [[heim]]
* [[ham]]
* [[hamlet]]
* [[holm]]
* [[haus]]
* [[house]]
* [[huse]]

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From Persian

===Adverb===
'''hem'''

# [[and also]]

[[Category:Turkish adverbs]]

[[cs:hem]]
[[el:hem]]
[[es:hem]]
[[fa:hem]]
[[fr:hem]]
[[ko:hem]]
[[io:hem]]
[[id:hem]]
[[it:hem]]
[[ku:hem]]
[[hu:hem]]
[[nl:hem]]
[[ja:hem]]
[[pl:hem]]
[[ru:hem]]
[[fi:hem]]
[[sv:hem]]
[[te:hem]]
[[tr:hem]]
[[vi:hem]]
[[zh:hem]]