==English==

===Etymology===
A later {{etyl|enm|en}} spelling, retaining the breathy {{term|-s}}, of {{term|hennes|lang=enm}}, ({{term|henne|lang=enm}} + adverbial genitive ending {{term|-s|lang=enm}}), from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|heonan||lang=ang|away", "hence}}, from a West Germanic root *khin- (compare Old Saxon [[hinan]], Old High German [[hinnan]], German [[hinnen]], Dutch [[heen]], Swedish [[hän]]); related to Old English {{term|her||lang=ang|here}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈhɛns/}}, {{SAMPA|/"hEns/}}
* {{audio|en-us-hence.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛns}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{context|conjunctive}} as a [[result]]; [[therefore]], for this [[reason]]
#: ''I shall go to Japan and '''hence''' will not be here in time for the party.
#: ''The purse is handmade and '''hence''' very expensive.
#* '''1910''', [[w:Sun Tzu|Sun Tzu]], Lionel Giles (translator), ''[[s:The Art of War (Sun)/Section VI|The Art of War]]'', Section VI: Weak Points and Strong, 8,
#*: '''Hence''' that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.
#* '''1910''', [1513], [[w:Niccolò Machiavelli|Niccolò Machiavelli]], Ninian Hill Thomson (translator), ''[[s:The Prince (Hill Thomson)/Chapter VI|The Prince]]'', Chapter VI,
#*: '''Hence''' it comes that all armed Prophets have been victorious, and all unarmed Prophets have been destroyed.
# {{context|temporal location}} from this time, from now
#: ''The plane will leave two months '''hence'''.
# {{context|location}} from this source or origin
#: ''They grew up at the White House; '''hence''' [stems] their lack of interest in politics.''
#* '''1731''' May 27, [[w:Benjamin Franklin|Benjamin Franklin]], ''[[s:Apology for Printers|Apology for Printers]]'', published in ''[[w:Pennsylvania Gazette|The Pennsylvania Gazette]]'',
#*: That '''hence''' arises the peculiar Unhappiness of that Business, which other Callings are no way liable to;
# {{archaic}} [[from]] [[here]], from this [[place]], [[away]]
#: ''Get you '''hence'''!
#: ''I'm going '''hence''', because you hit me.
#: ''Get thee '''hence''', Satan!
#* '''c.1599-1601''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark/Act 4|The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark]], Act 4, Scene 1,
#*: O Gertrude, come away! / The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch, / But we will ship him '''hence''':
#* '''1849''', [[w:Arthur Hugh Clough|Arthur Hugh Clough]], ''[[s:Easter Day (Naples, 1849)|Easter Day (Naples, 1849)]]'',
#*: Ye men of Galilee! / Why stand ye looking up to heaven, where Him ye ne’er may see, / Neither ascending '''hence''', nor returning hither again?
# {{archaic}} from the [[living]] or from this [[world]]
#: ''After a long battle, my poor daughter was taken '''hence'''.
# {{archaic}} [[henceforth]], from this time
#: ''A year '''hence''' it will be forgotten.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|as a result; therefore, for this reason}} [[consequently]]

====Derived terms====
* [[henceforth]]
* [[henceforward]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|as a result, therefore}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|所以|tr=suǒyǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|因此|tr=yīncǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|於是|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|于是|tr=yúshì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|tudíž}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|derfor}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|derhalve}}, {{t+|nl|dus}}, {{t+|nl|bijgevolg}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|joten}}, {{t+|fi|siksi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ainsi}}, {{t+|fr|donc}}, {{t|fr|par conséquent}}
* German: {{t+|de|daher}}, {{t+|de|deshalb}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לכן|tr=lakhén}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þess vegna}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|perciò}},  {{t+|it|dunque}},  {{t+|it|quindi}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|それ故に|tr=それゆえに, sore-yue-ni)|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ergo}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|значи|tr=znáči}},  {{t|mk|затоа|tr=zátoa}},  {{t|mk|според тоа|tr=spóred tóa}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|herav}}, {{t|no|av}} {{t|no|dette}} {{t|no|følger}}, {{t|no|derfor}}, {{t|no|derav}}
* Polish: [[więc]], skutkiem tego, w związku z tym
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|portanto}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|следовательно|tr=slédovatel’no|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|поэтому|tr=poétomu|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|потому|tr=potomú|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|значит|tr=znáčit|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: [[por]] [[lo]] [[tanto]], [[por]] [[eso]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|därför}}, {{t|sv|följaktligen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|from this source or origin}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|odtud}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|deraf}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|vandaar}}
* French: {{t|fr|d'où}}
* German: {{t+|de|demnach}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[da]] [[ciò]]
* Latin: {{t|la| inde}}, {{t|la|abhinc}}, {{t|la|ex eo tempore}}, {{t|la|istinc}}, {{t|la|ab eo tempore}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|значи|tr=znáči}},  {{t|mk|затоа|tr=zátoa}},  {{t|mk|заради тоа|tr=záradi tóa}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|daí}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|de ahí}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|därav}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|from here}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|從這裡|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|从这里|tr=cóng zhèlǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|從這兒|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|从这儿|tr=cóng zhèr|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|odtud}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|heden}}
* Dutch: [[van hier]], {{t|nl|heen}}
* Finnish: [[tästedes]], [[tästä]] [[eteenpäin]]
* French: [[d']][[ici]]
* German: [[von]] [[hier]], [[fort]], [[von dannen]]
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מכאן|tr=mikán|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|héðan}}
* Italian: [[da]] [[qui]]
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ここから|tr=koko-kara|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t|la|hinc}}, {{t|la|ex hoc loco}}, {{t|la|post }}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|оттука|tr=óttuka}},  {{t|mk|одовде|tr=ódovde}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|herfra}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|daqui}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отсюда|tr=otsjúda}}
* Spanish: [[de]] [[aquí]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hädanefter}}, {{t+|sv|härav}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[tale]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[karenanya]]
* {{ttbc|ms}}: oleh sebab yang demikian
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English conjunctive adverbs]]
[[Category:English location adverbs]]
[[Category:English temporal location adverbs]]

[[de:hence]]
[[et:hence]]
[[el:hence]]
[[es:hence]]
[[fa:hence]]
[[fr:hence]]
[[io:hence]]
[[it:hence]]
[[kn:hence]]
[[ku:hence]]
[[lo:hence]]
[[hu:hence]]
[[ml:hence]]
[[my:hence]]
[[pl:hence]]
[[pt:hence]]
[[ru:hence]]
[[simple:hence]]
[[sv:hence]]
[[ta:hence]]
[[te:hence]]
[[vi:hence]]
[[zh:hence]]