{{also|henny|Henný}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|En-au-Henny.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɛni|s=2}}

===Etymology 1===

====Proper noun====
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|en|female|diminutive=Henrietta}}.
#* '''1782''' [[w:Frances Burney|Frances Burney]], ''[[s:Cecilia/Book 5/Chapter ii|Cecilia/Book 5/Chapter ii]]'':
#*: Cecilia, who only through compassion to the blushing Henrietta forbore repressing this forwardness more seriously, merely answered Mrs Belfield by wishing her good morning: but, while she was taking a kinder leave of her timid daughter, the mother added "As to the present, ma'am, you was so kind to make us, '''Henny''' can witness for me every penny of it shall go to my son."

===Etymology 2===

====Proper noun====
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{lb|en|slang}} [[Hennessy]], a [[French]] brand of [[cognac]].
#* {{quote-song|en|artist=Eminem|title=Must Be the Ganja|album=Relapse|year=2009|passage=Maybe it's the '''Henny''' that has gotten in me / Whatever's got into me, I don't mind}}

[[Category:English eponyms]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From a diminutive of {{m|da|Henriette}} in imitation of the {{der|da|en|Henny}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|da|female}}.

===References===
* [http://www.danskernesnavne.navneforskning.ku.dk/ ] Danskernes Navne, based on CPR data: 9 397 females with the given name Henny have been registered in Denmark between about 1890 (=the population alive in 1967) and January 2005, with the frequency peak in the 1930s. Accessed on 31 August 2011.

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|de|female|dim=Henriette|dim2=Johanna}}
# {{given name|de|male|dim=Heinrich|dim2=Johannes}}

====Usage notes====
* The female name was fairly common in Germany around 1900. The male name has always been rare.

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{m|no|Henriette}} and {{m|no|Henrikke}}, later also interpreted as a feminine form of {{m|no|Henning}}.

===Proper noun===
{{no-proper noun}}
# {{given name|no|female}}.

===References===
* Kristoffer Kruken - Ola Stemshaug: Norsk personnamnleksikon, Det Norske Samlaget, Oslo 1995, {{ISBN|82-521-4483-7}}
* [http://www.ssb.no/navn/ ] Statistisk sentralbyrå, Namnestatistikk: 1572 females with the given name Henny living in Norway on January 1st 2011, with the frequency peak in the 1910s. Accessed on 31 August, 2011.

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From a diminutive of {{m|sv|Henrietta}} and {{m|sv|Henrika}} in imitation of the {{der|sv|en|Henny}}. First recorded as a given name in Sweden in 1826.

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|c}}

# {{given name|sv|female}}, diminutive of [[Henrika]] and [[Henrietta]].

===References===
* Roland Otterbjörk: Svenska förnamn, Almqvist & Wiksell 1996, {{ISBN|91-21-10937-0}}
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20100328044612/http://www.scb.se/Pages/NameSearch____259432.aspx] Statistiska centralbyrån and Sture Allén, Staffan Wåhlin, ''Förnamnsboken'', Norstedts 1995, {{ISBN|9119551622}}: 2365 females with the given name Henny living in Sweden on December 31st, 2010, with the frequency peak in the 1910s. Accessed on 31 August 2011.