{{also|hét|нет}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
{{clipping|heterosexual}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{context|countable|slang||lang=en}} A [[heterosexual]] person.
# {{context|uncountable|fandom slang|lang=en}} [[fan fiction|Fan fiction]] based on [[celebrity|celebrities]] or [[fictional]] [[characters]] involved in an [[opposite]]-[[sex]] [[romantic]] and/or [[sexual]] [[relationship]].
#* '''2005''', Rhiannon Bury, ''Cyberspaces of Their Own: Female Fandoms Online'', Peter Lang (2005), ISBN 0820471186, [http://books.google.com/books?id=wmo_-QhfqeoC&pg=PA207&dq=%22het%22 page 207]:
#*: Mary Ellen Curtin presented a paper at the 2002 Popular Culture Association conference in which she studied fanfiction archives to discover that black characters appeared far less in both '''het''' and slash fiction than white or even Latino/a characters.
#* '''2006''', Catherine Driscoll, "One True Pairing: The Romance of Pornography and the Pornography of Romance", in ''Fan Fiction and Fan Communities in the Age of the Internet: New Essays'' (eds. Karen Hellekson & Kristina Busse), McFarland & Company (2006), ISBN 9780786426409, [http://books.google.com/books?id=UgZsi_DOKoQC&pg=PA84&dq=%22vast+majority+of+fan+fiction+is+het%22 page 84]:
#*: The vast majority of fan fiction is '''het''' or slash, and these types are usually defined against each other as approaches to romance and porn, marginalizing gen as something outside of the dominant concerns of fan fiction.
#* '''2010''', Rebecca Ward Black, "Just Don't Call Them Cartoons: The New Literacy Spaces of Anime, Manga, and Fanfiction", in ''Handbook of Research on New Literacies'' (eds. Julie Coiro, Michele Knobel, Colin Lankshear, & Donald J. Leu), Lawrence Erlbaum Associates (2010), ISBN 9780805856514, [http://books.google.com/books?id=ViE_ZSeu75kC&pg=PT613&dq=%22het%22+fanfiction page 595]:
#*: Other studies explore why some women write '''''het''''', or fictions with heterosexual pairings of certain couples, within canons such as ''Star Trek Voyager'' that generally inspire slash fiction (Somogyi, 2002).
#* {{seemoreCites}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|fan fiction}} [[hetfic]]

[[Category:en:Fan fiction]]

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[heterosexual|Heterosexual]].

===Etymology 2===
Strong conjugation of {{term|heat|lang=en}}

====Verb====
'''het'''

# {{context|dialect|lang=en}} {{en-past of|heat}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|dialect|lang=en}} [[heated|Heated]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[het up]]

===Anagrams===
* [[ETH#English|ETH]], [[Eth#English|Eth]], [[eth#English|eth]], [[TEH#English|TEH]], [[teh#English|teh]], [[the#English|the]]

----

==Afrikaans==
===Verb===
{{head|af|verb form}}

# {{form of|Present form|hê|lang=af}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ət|ɛt|lang=nl}}
* {{a|BE}} {{IPA|lang=nl|/ət/|/ɦət/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-het (Belgium).ogg|audio (Belgium)}}
* {{a|NL}} {{IPA|lang=nl|/ət/}} {{qualifier|usually}}, {{IPA|lang=nl|/ɦɛt/}} {{qualifier|when stressed}}
* {{audio|Nl-het.ogg|audio (Netherlands)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{term|dat|lang=dum}}, which was contracted to {{term|'t|lang=dum}} in usual speech. This form was later interpreted as being the same as the neuter pronoun {{term|het|lang=nl}} (etymology 2, see below), which was contracted in the same way. This then led to the modern spelling beginning with ''h'', which is in fact unetymological.

====Article====
{{head|nl|article|g=n}}

# [[the]] {{qualifier|the [[neuter]] [[definite article]]}}
#: '''''het''' boek''
#:: '''the''' book
#: '''''het''' meisje''
#:: '''the''' girl

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|nl|aan het}}
* {{l|nl|hetzelfde}}

====See also====
{{nl-decl-definite article}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{term|het|lang=dum}}, {{term|hit|lang=dum}}, from {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{term|it|lang=odt}}, {{term|hit|lang=odt}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*it}}, {{term/t|gem-pro|*hit}}.

====Pronoun====
{{head|nl|personal pronoun|g=n}}

# [[it]]; {{non-gloss definition|third-person singular, neuter, subjective}}
#: '''''Het''' is een mooi huis, maar een beetje klein.''
#:: '''It''' is a nice house, but a little small.
# [[it]]; {{non-gloss definition|third-person singular, neuter, objective}}
#: ''Kun je '''het''' goed zien?''
#:: Can you see '''it''' well?
#: ''Ik doe '''het''' als jij '''het''' wilt.''
#:: I'll do '''it''' if you want '''it'''. (i.e. "if you want me to")
#: ''Het meisje heeft honger, geef '''het''' een boterham.''
#:: The girl is hungry, give her a sandwich.
# [[it]]; {{non-gloss definition|impersonal}}
#: '''''Het''' is laat.''
#:: '''It''' is late.
#: '''''Het''' regent alweer.''
#:: '''It''''s raining again.
#: ''Hoe gaat '''het'''?''
#:: How is '''it''' going?

=====Usage notes=====
This pronoun can combine with a preposition to form a [[pronominal adverb]]. When this occurs, it is changed into its adverbial/locative counterpart {{term|er|lang=nl}}. See also [[:Category:Dutch pronominal adverbs]].

=====See also=====
{{nl-decl-personal pronouns}}

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|het}}
* {{IPA|lang=fi|[het]}}

===Pronoun===
'''het'''

# {{context|personal|dialectal|lang=fi}} [[they]] {{qualifier|only of people}}.

====Synonyms====
* [[he#Finnish|he]] {{qualifier|standard Finnish}}
* [[hyö]] {{qualifier|dialectal}}

[[Category:Finnish personal pronouns]]

----

==Kven==

===Pronoun===
{{head|fkv|pronoun}}

# {{context|personal|lang=fkv}} [[they]]

====Synonyms====
* [[net]]

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|dum|hit}}
* {{l|dum|et}}, {{l|dum|it}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|dum}} {{term|hit|lang=odt}}, {{term|it|lang=odt}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|dum}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*hit}}, {{term/t|gem-pro|*it}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=dum|/het/}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|dum|pronoun|g=n}}

# [[it]]

====Declension====
{{dum-decl-ppron}}

====Descendants====
* Dutch: {{l|nl|het}} (only the pronoun; the definite article is a weakened form of {{term|dat|lang=dum}})

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Verb===
{{head|nn|verb form}}

# {{nn-verb-form of|past tense|heit}}

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Inflected form of ''[[hatan|hātan]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/heːt/|lang=ang}}

===Verb===
{{head|ang|verb|head=hēt'''}}

# {{form of|first-person singular preterite form|hātan|lang=ang}}
# {{form of|third-person singular preterite form|hātan|lang=ang}}

[[Category:Old English verb forms]]

----

==Old Saxon==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|osx}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*haitaz}}. Compare Old English {{term/t|ang|hāt}}, Old Frisian {{term|het|hēt|lang=ofs}}, Old High German {{term|heiz|lang=goh}}, Old Norse {{term|heitr|lang=non}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|osx|adjective|head=hēt}}

# [[hot]], [[fierce]]

====Declension====
{{osx-decl-adj|title=hēt|hēt}}

====Descendants====
* Middle Low German: {{l|gml|hēt}}
** Low German: {{l|nds|het}}, {{l|nds|heet}}, {{l|nds|hitt}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|heitr|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|sv}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*haitaz}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-het.ogg|audio}}

===Adjective===
{{sv-adj}}

# [[hot]]; having a very high [[temperature]]
# [[hot]]; [[feverish]]
# [[hot]]; (of food) [[spicy]]
# [[hot]]; radioactive
# [[hot]]; (slang) physically very attractive
#: ''Den kvinnan är '''het'''!''
#:: That woman is hot!
# [[hot]]; popular, in demand.

====Declension====
{{sv-adj-reg}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|of high temperature}}  (mycket) [[varm]]
* {{sense|feverish}}  [[febrig]]
* {{sense|spicy}}  [[stark]]
* {{sense|popular}}  [[inne]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|of high temperature}}  [[iskall]], [[kall]], [[kylig]], [[sval]]
* {{sense|spicy}}  [[mild]]
* {{sense|popular}}  [[ute]]

===Verb===
{{head|sv|verb form}}

# {{sv-verb-form-imp|heta}}

----

==Tok Pisin==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|tpi}} {{term|head|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{head|tpi|noun}}

# {{context|anatomy|lang=tpi}} [[head]]
#* {{tpi-cite-bible|Gen|3|15|Na bai mi mekim yu i stap birua bilong meri, na meri i stap birua bilong yu. Na bai mi mekim ol lain bilong yu i birua long lain bilong meri. Bai ol i krungutim '''het''' bilong yu, na bai yu kaikaim lek bilong ol.”}}

{{LDL|tpi}}

[[Category:tpi:Anatomy]]

[[af:het]]
[[br:het]]
[[cs:het]]
[[de:het]]
[[et:het]]
[[el:het]]
[[es:het]]
[[eo:het]]
[[fa:het]]
[[fr:het]]
[[ko:het]]
[[io:het]]
[[la:het]]
[[hu:het]]
[[mg:het]]
[[my:het]]
[[fj:het]]
[[nl:het]]
[[ja:het]]
[[no:het]]
[[pl:het]]
[[pt:het]]
[[ru:het]]
[[fi:het]]
[[sv:het]]
[[tl:het]]
[[tr:het]]
[[vi:het]]
[[vo:het]]
[[zh:het]]