==English==

===Etymology===
Probably a natural expression, as may be inferred from its presence with similar meaning in many unrelated languages: for example, Burmese {{term|ဟေး|lang=my|sc=Mymr|tr=hei}}, Finnish {{term|hei|lang=fi}} and Mandarin Chinese {{term|哎|lang=cmn|sc=Hani|tr=āi}}, and various sound-alikes as Roman [[eho]], Greek εἴα (''eia''), Latin [[eia]], Dutch [[he]], German [[hei]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|hā}}, {{IPA|/heɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/heI/}}
* {{audio|en-us-hey.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{homophones|hay}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪ}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# An [[exclamation]] to get [[attention]].
#: '''''Hey''', look at this!
# A [[protest]] or [[reprimand]].
#: '''''Hey'''! Stop that!
# An [[expression]] of [[surprise]].
#: '''''Hey'''! This is new!
# An [[informal]] [[greeting]], similar to [[hi]] (used in the US, Australia and Canada).
#: '''''Hey'''! How's it going?
# A [[request]] for [[repetition]] or [[explanation]]; an expression of [[confusion]] (see also [[eh]]).
#: '''''Hey'''? How's that?
# A meaningless [[beat]] [[marker]] or extra, [[filler]] [[syllable]] in musical lyrics.
#: ''The chorus is "nana na na, nana na na '''hey hey hey,''' good bye"

====Related terms====
* [[heyda]], [[heyday]]
* [[what the hey]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|exclamation to get attention}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ياه|tr=yaah|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|喂|tr=wèi|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|哎|tr=āi|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|嗨|tr=hāi|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|嘿|tr=hēi|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: [[he]], he daar
* Filipino: [[hoy]], [[uy]]/[[ui]], [[oi]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hei}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hé}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|Hallo}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|ehi}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|おい|tr=oi|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ei}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эй|tr=ej|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|oye}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[hoy]], [[uy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|protest or reprimand}}
* Dutch: [[he]], [[hela]], [[ho]], [[hola]], [[homaar]]
* Filipino: [[hoy]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hei}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|ehi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ei}}, {{t-|pt|epa}}, {{t-|pt|opa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эй|tr=ej|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|oye}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[hoy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expression of surprise}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|he}}, {{t-|nl|heh}}, {{t-|nl|huh}}
* Filipino: [[hoy]], [[uy]]/[[ui]], [[talaga]], [[a]]/[[ah]]
* Finnish: [[oh-hoh]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|epa}}, {{t-|pt|opa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ой|tr=oj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|ух ты|tr=ux ty|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|ого|tr=ogó, ohó|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|informal greeting}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hoi}}
* Filipino: [[hoy]], [[uy]]/[[ui]], [[oi]], [[ei]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hei}}, {{t+|fi|terve}}, {{t+|fi|moro}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|hej}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|oi}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[hoy]], [[uy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|request for repetition or explanation}}
* Filipino: [[uy]]/[[ui]], [[ei]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hei}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[hã]], [[hem]]
* [[Tagalog]]: [[uy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|meaningless beat marker, filler syllable}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hei}}
* Portuguese: [[é]], ''hey''
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[hoy]], [[uy]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[zdrasti]], [[здрасти]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[hé]], [[eh]], [[hep]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[hej]], [[ej]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: ¡[[eh]]!,
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[hallå]] (1, 2, 3, 4, 5), [[tja]] (4), [[hej]] (4, 6), [[hej hå]] (6)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[huh|Huh]]

* {{pedialite}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|country dancing}} A [[choreographic]] [[figure]] in which the dancers [[weave]] between one another.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|country dancing figure}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hej}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|hey}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Greetings]]

----
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<STYLE>
h1 {font: color: white; border: solid red; 32pt; background: black}
h2 {font: color: white; font-variant: small caps; margin-right: 1in; margin-left: 1in; background: blue}
a  {color: red; text-decoration: none; font-weight: 800;size: 14pt;}
a:hover {text-decoration: underline}
p  {font: 18pt; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-left: 0.5in
body  {margin-top: 0.5in;font: background: green}
</STYLE>
<TITLE>lab3.htm</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<BODY>
<h1><FONT COLOR=WHITE><CENTER>Margins, Text Indents & Alignment</CENTER></FONT></h1>
<P>All critical elements of controlling page layout, margins, indents, and text alignment can help bring a sophisticated look to your web pages.</P>
<h2><CENTER><FONT COLOR=WHITE>MARGINS</FONT></CENTER></h2>
<UL>
<LI><B>margin-left</B> to set a left margin, use a distance in points, inches, centimeters, or pixels. The following sets a left margin of 3/4 inch.</LI>
<LI><B>margin-right</B> for a right, margin, select from the same measurement options as provided for the margin-left attribute:</LI>
<LI><B>margin-top</B> top margins can be set using the same measurement values as for the other margin attributes:</LI>
</UL>
<h2><CENTER><FONT COLOR=WHITE>TEXT INDENTS AND ALIGNMENT</FONT></CENTER></h2>
<UL>
<LI><B>text-indent</B> Again, points inches, centimeters, or pixel values can be assigned to this attribute which serves to indent any type of text:</LI>
<LI><B>text-align</B> This long awaited feature allows for justification of text Values include left, center, and right:</LI>
</UL>
<CENTER><A HREF=Introduction.htm>Introduction</A>
<A HREF=Controling.htm>Controling Fonts</A>



</CENTER>
</BODY>
</HTML>

==Faroese==

===Interjection===
'''hey'''

# [[hi]], [[#English|hey]], [[hello]]
#: '''''hey''' aftur!'' - hello again!

====Synonyms====
* [[halló]]
* [[góðan morgun]]
* [[góðan dag]]
* [[gott kvøld]]

====Antonyms====
* [[farvæl]]
* [[vit síggjast]]

[[Category:Faroese interjections]]
[[Category:Faroese phrasebook]]

[[de:hey]]
[[es:hey]]
[[fr:hey]]
[[ko:hey]]
[[it:hey]]
[[ku:hey]]
[[lt:hey]]
[[hu:hey]]
[[simple:hey]]
[[fi:hey]]
[[sv:hey]]
[[ta:hey]]
[[tr:hey]]
[[vi:hey]]
[[zh:hey]]