==English==

===Etymology===
The phrase arises from the {{etyl|la|en}} form of ''[[w:Aesop's Fables|Aesop's Fables]]'' (Gibbs 209; Perry 33; Chambry 51), as translated from [[Ancient Greek]] "Αὐτοῦ γὰρ καὶ Ῥόδος καὶ πήδημα" {{lb|en|literally}} "Here is [[Rhodes]], jump here!". In the fable, a boastful athlete brags that he once achieved a stupendous long jump in competition on the island of Rhodes. A bystander challenges him to dispense with the reports of the witnesses and simply repeat his accomplishment on the spot: "Here is Rhodes, jump here!"

===Proverb===
{{head|en|proverb}}

# {{lb|en|politics}} [[prove|Prove]] what you can do, here and now.
#* '''1820''', [[w:Hegel|Hegel]], “Philosophy of Right”, Preface, from SW Dyde 1896 translation
#*: As a philosophic writing, it must be on its guard against constructing a state as it ought to be. Philosophy cannot teach the state what it should be, but only how it, the ethical universe, is to be known. Idou Podos, idou kai to pidima / '''Hic Rhodus, hic saltus'''.
#* '''1852''', [[w:Marx|Karl Marx]], “The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte”, Chapter 1, from Saul K Padover English translation, published 1937
#*: On the other hand, proletarian revolutions, like those of the nineteenth century, constantly criticize themselves, constantly interrupt themselves in their own course, return to the apparently accomplished, in order to begin anew; they deride with cruel thoroughness the half-measures, weaknesses, and paltriness of their first attempts, seem to throw down their opponents only so the latter may draw new strength from the earth and rise before them again more gigantic than ever, recoil constantly from the indefinite colossalness of their own goals – until a situation is created which makes all turning back impossible, and the conditions themselves call out:  '''Hic Rhodus, hic salta'''!

===References===
* ''[http://berlin.wolf.ox.ac.uk/lists/quotations/quotations_by_ib.html Quotations, Isaiah Berlin Virtual Library]''
* ''[http://www.mythfolklore.net/aesopica/oxford/209.htm The Boastful Athlete]'', as translated by Laura Gibbs.
* ''[https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/pr/ Philosophy of Right]'', by GWF Hegel, Dyde translation.
* ''[https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1852/18th-brumaire/ The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte]'', by Karl Marx, Padover translation.
* ''[https://www.marxists.org/glossary/terms/h/i.htm#hic-rhodus Explanation]'', from Encyclopaedia of Marxism.