==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/hɪəˈɹɒfəniːz/}}

===Noun===
'''hierophanies''' {{p}}

# {{plural of|[[hierophany#English|hierophany]]}}
#* '''1991''': Robert D. Baird, ''Category Formation and the History of Religions'', p75<sup>{1}, {2}, {3}, & {4}</sup>
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>For example, the symbolism of the moon implies a system of '''hierophanies''' which cluster about the moon.
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>In the case of water symbolism, there is no such central symbol, but rather various water '''hierophanies'''.
#*: <sup>{3}</sup>In the case of water symbolism, then, some '''hierophanies'' such as Baptism and the Flood are more clear in their intention.
#*: <sup>{4}</sup>These systems manifest more clearly, more fully, and with greater coherence what each of the individual '''hierophanies''' intends. To interpret the '''hierophanies''' individualistically would be to lose their deepest meaning.
#* '''1994''': Subrata Kumar Chakrabarti, ''Offshore Structure Modeling'', chapter 1 — ''Hierophany'', pp7<sup>{1}</sup> & 8<sup>{2} & {3}</sup>
#*: <sup>{1}</sup>The major themes in Eliade’s thought are symbol, myth, and ritual<sup>1</sup>, '''hierophanies''', the sacred and the profane, the ''coincidentia oppositorum'', the repetition of archetypal structures<sup>2</sup>, ''illud tempus'', and ''homo religiosus''.
#*: <sup>{2}</sup>Then there are the difficulties raised by Eliade’s actual usage of his term. His first introduction of the word into his text<sup>3</sup> is problematic. “Some '''hierophanies''' are not at all clear, are indeed almost cryptic,” he states, “in that they only reveal the sacred meanings … in part, or, as it were, in code” (''Patterns'', 8).
#*: <sup>{3}</sup>So, not only are ''things'' “transformed” into '''hierophanies''', but ''anything'' can be so transformed, and yet, having been so transformed the hierophany may remain “cryptic”.

[[Category:English plurals ending in "-ies"]]