==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|head=[[high]] [[and]] [[dry]]|-}}

# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} Abandoned, stranded, helpless.
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} An unsuccessful [[log drive]].
#* '''2008''', George Barr Mccutcheon, ''The Daughter of Anderson Crow'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=dPDg454E4PMC&dq=%22high-and-dry%22&pg=PA9#v=onepage page 9]:
#*: "There's a foot-log '''high and dry''', and you can walk across, but you can't get the horse and buggy over," said one of the men.
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} The high church as associated with the Church of England and other Anglican traditions, as opposed to the "[[low and slow]]" Evangelical party and "[[broad and shallow]]" broad church.<ref>John Stephen Farmer. ''A Dictionary of Slang and Colloquial English: Abridged from the Seven-volume'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=VR1AAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA222&dq=%22high+and+dry%22 page 222]. G. Routledge & Sons, limited, 1905.</ref> In the context of the Catholic revival of the 19th century, it referred to their traditional "high" attitude with regard to political position of the Church in England, and "dry" faith, which was accompanied by an austere but decorous mode of worship. Considered disrespectful.<ref name=barrere>Albert Barrère. ''A Dictionary of Slang, Jargon & Cant Embracing English, American, and Anglo-Indian Slang, Pidgin English, Gypsies' Jargon and Other Irregular Phraseology, Volume 1'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=et7WAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA435&dq=%22high+and+dry%22 page 435], 1897</ref> 
#* '''1844''', A. H. Maltby, ''The New Englander, Volume 2'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=0Y4FAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA321&dq=high+and+dry page 321]:
#*: "There are two recognized parties in the church of England, the old High-and-dry church party, and the so-called Evangelical. To one or other of these two the Anglo-Catholic must conform."
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} Any article left on the beach by a retreating tide.<ref name=barrere/> 
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} Nautical term for a ship out of water due to stranding on a beach, or in the stocks for repair or [[dry dock]].<ref>Martin Robson. ''Not Enough Room to Swing a Cat: Naval Slang and Its Everyday Usage'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=vwu-AgAAQBAJ&pg=PT50&dq=%22high+and+dry%22 page 50]. Anova Books, 2012.</ref>
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} A sandwich with no condiments.<ref>Barbara Ann Kipfer. ''Phraseology''. [http://books.google.com/books?id=w2rowi1fm9gC&pg=PA137&dq=%22high+and+dry%22 page 137]. Sourcebooks, 2008.</ref>

====Derived terms====
* [[leave somebody high and dry]]

===See also===
* [[high and mighty]]
* [[leave to one's own devices]]

===References===
<references/>

[[et:high and dry]]
[[mg:high and dry]]
[[my:high and dry]]
[[pl:high and dry]]
[[ta:high and dry]]