{{also|Him|hĩm|hím}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|him|lang=ang}} dative singular of {{term|he|lang=ang}} (masculine) or {{term|it|lang=ang}} (neuter). Cognate with Dutch {{term|hem}}.

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|UK|US}} {{enPR|hĭm}}, {{IPA|/hɪm/}}, {{SAMPA|/hIm/}}
* {{audio|en-us-him.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪm}}
* {{homophones|hymn}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron|desc=personal pronoun, objective case}}

# A masculine pronoun; [[he]] as a grammatical object.
## With [[dative]] effect or as an indirect object. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
##*'''1897''', {{w|Bram Stoker}}, ''Dracula'':
##*:‘I promise,’ he said as I gave '''him''' the papers.
## Following a [[preposition]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
##*'''1813''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''Pride and Prejudice'':
##*:She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to '''him''' she had hardly courage to speak.
## With [[accusative]] effect or as a direct object. {{defdate|from 12th c.}}
##*'''1853''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''Bleak House'':
##*:‘He's got it buttoned in his breast. I saw '''him''' put it there.’
# {{context|now|_|rare}} Used [[reflexively]]: (to) [[himself]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#*'''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Acts XII:
#*:Apon a daye apoynted, the kynge arayed '''hym''' in royall apparell, and set '''hym''' in his seate, and made an oracion unto them.
# With [[nominative]] effect: [[he]], especially as a predicate after {{term|be}}, or following a preposition. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#*'''c. 1616''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Macbeth'', First Folio 1623, V.10:
#*:Before my body, I throw my warlike Shield: Lay on Macduffe, And damn'd be '''him''', that first cries hold, enough.
#*'''2003''', Claire Cozens, ''The Guardian'', 11 Jun 2003:
#*:Lowe quit the West Wing last year amid rumours that he was unhappy that his co-stars earned more than '''him'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|dative / indirect object}}
*Belarusian: {{t|be|яму|tr=jamú|xs=Belarusian}}
*Czech: {{t|cs|mu}}, {{t|cs|jemu}}
*Esperanto: {{t|eo|al}}, {{t|eo|li}}
*French: {{t|fr|lui}}
*German: {{t|de|ihm}}
*Hungarian: {{t|hu|neki}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: {{t|it|gli}}
*Latin: {{t+|la|ei}}, {{t|la|illi}}
*Russian: {{t-|ru|ему|tr=jemú}}
*Turkish: {{t|tr|ona}}
*Ukrainian: {{t|uk|йому|tr=jomú|xs=Ukrainian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|objective after preposition}}
*Czech: {{t|cs|mu}}, {{t|cs|jemu}}
*Esperanto: {{t|eo|li}}
*French: {{t|fr|lui}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: {{t|it|lui}}
*Latin: {{qualifier|after preposition that governs the accusative}} {{t-|la|eum}}, {{qualifier|after preposition that governs the dative}} {{t+|la|ei}}, {{qualifier|after preposition that governs ablative}} {{t+|la|eo}}, {{qualifier|after preposition that governs the ablative}} {{t+|la|eo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|accusative / direct object}}
*Belarusian: {{t|be|яго|tr=jahó|xs=Belarusian}}
*Czech: {{t|cs|ho}}, {{t|cs|jeho}}
*French: {{t|fr|le}}
*German: {{t|de|ihn}}
*Hungarian: {{t|hu|őt}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: {{t|it|lo}}
*Latin: {{t-|la|eum}}, {{t|la|illum}}
*Russian: {{t+|ru|его|tr=jegó}}
*Turkish: {{t|tr|onu}}
*Ukrainian: {{t|uk|його|tr=johó|xs=Ukrainian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|he}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|himself}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|atij|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ه|alt=ـه|tr=-hu}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{tø|arz|ه|alt=ـه|tr=-u|sc=Arab|xs=Egyptian Arabic}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նրան|tr=nran}}, {{t|hy|իրեն|tr=iren}}
** Old Armenian: {{tø|xcl|նմա|tr=nma|xs=Old Armenian}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|ham}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hem}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hänet}} (''accusative case''), {{t+|fi|häntä}} (''partitive case'')
* [[Greenlandic]]: {{t|kl|una}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[i]]
* Hindi: {{t|hi|इस|tr=is|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|उस|tr=us|sc=Deva}}
* [[Hopi]]: {{tø|hop|put}}
* [[Ido]]: [[il]], [[ilu]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[le]] (direct/indirect object); [[ille]] (after preposition)
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|彼|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Low German]]: {{t|nds|em}}
* [[Ngarrindjeri]]: {{tø|nay|kin}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ham}}, {{t|no|han}}
* [[Novial]]: [[lo]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jego}}, {{t+|pl|go}}, {{t-|pl|niego}}, {{t-|pl|jemu}}, {{t-|pl|mu}}, {{t-|pl|niemu}}, {{t+|pl|nim}}
* Portuguese: [[o]], [[lo]] (after verb ending in "-r"), [[no]] (after nasal sound) (direct object); [[lhe]] (indirect object); [[ele]] (after preposition)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|le}}, a {{t+|es|el}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|honom}}
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[i]]
* Welsh: {{t|cy|fe}}
* [[West Frisian]]: him
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
{{English personal pronouns}}

====See also====
* [[he]]
* [[his]]
* [[her]]
* [[them]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|this|but|all|31|him|she|they|my}}

===Anagrams===
* [[HMI#English|HMI]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English personal pronouns]]
[[Category:English third person pronouns]]

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|lb|personal pronoun}}

# ''third-person masculine singular, dative'': [[him#English|him]], to him
#: ''Ech baken '''him''' e Kuch''
#:: I'm baking '''him''' a cake
# ''third-person feminine singular, dative'': [[her]], to her
#: ''Hie war mat '''him''' gëschter''
#:: He was with '''her''' yesterday
# ''third-person neuter singular, dative'': [[it]], to it

====Declension====
{{lb-decl-personal pronouns}}

----

==Old English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/him/|lang=ang}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ang|pronoun}}

# ''dative singular of [[he#Old English|hē]] or [[hit#Old English|hit]]'': (to) [[#English|him]], [[it]]
# ''dative plural of [[he#Old English|hē]], [[hit#Old English|hit]] or [[heo|hēo]]'': (to) [[them]]

----

==Old Frisian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɪm/|lang=ofs}}

===Pronoun===
'''him'''

# [[#English|him]]

[[Category:Old Frisian pronouns]]

----

==West Frisian==

===Etymology===
From Old Frisian [[#Old Frisian|him]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɪm/|lang=fy}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fy|pronoun}}

# [[#English|him]]
# [[himself]]
# [[itself]]

===Usage notes===

* "Him" is used ''roughly'' like "himself" and "itself" in English. In these cases, it is used after a verb when there is another object in the sentence. For example, ''"Dy partij stelt '''him''' op it stânpunt fan it federalisme"'' more literally means "This party puts '''itself''' on the standpoint of federalism".

[[ang:him]]
[[cs:him]]
[[de:him]]
[[et:him]]
[[es:him]]
[[eo:him]]
[[fa:him]]
[[fr:him]]
[[ko:him]]
[[hr:him]]
[[io:him]]
[[it:him]]
[[kk:him]]
[[ku:him]]
[[hu:him]]
[[mg:him]]
[[ml:him]]
[[my:him]]
[[nl:him]]
[[ja:him]]
[[no:him]]
[[pl:him]]
[[pt:him]]
[[simple:him]]
[[fi:him]]
[[sv:him]]
[[ta:him]]
[[te:him]]
[[th:him]]
[[tr:him]]
[[vi:him]]
[[zh:him]]