{{also|HIT|hít}}
==English==

{{slim-wikipedia|dab=hit}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|hĭt}}, {{IPA|/hɪt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/hIt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-hit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|hitten||to hit, strike, make contact with|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|hittan||to meet with, come upon, fall in with|lang=ang}}, probably of {{etyl|gmq|en}} origin, from {{etyl|non|en}} {{term|hitta||to strike, meet|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|hitjaną||to come upon, find|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{recons|k(')eid-||to fall, fall upon|lang=ine-pro}}. Cognate with {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|hitta||to meet|lang=is}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|hitte||to find|lang=da}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|caedo|caedō|fall|lang=la}}, {{etyl|sq|-}} {{term|qit||to hit, throw, pull out, release|lang=sq}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|hits|hitting|hit}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To administer a [[blow]] to.
#: ''One boy '''hit''' the other.''
#* '''1922-1927''', {{w|Frank Harris}}, ''{{w|My Life and Loves}}''
#*: He tried to '''hit''' me but I dodged the blow and went out to plot revenge.
#* {{RQ:Joyce Ulysses}} Episode 15
#*: BELLO: (Shouts) Good, by the rumping jumping general! That's the best bit of news I heard these six weeks. Here, don't keep me waiting, damn you! (He slaps her face)
#*: BLOOM: (Whimpers) You're after '''hitting''' me. I'll tell ...
#* '''1934''', Robert E. Howard, ''The Slugger's Game''
#*: I hunted him for half a hour, aiming to learn him to '''hit''' a man with a table-leg and then run, but I didn't find him.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To come into [[contact]] with forcefully and suddenly.
#: ''The ball '''hit''' the fence.''
#* {{RQ:Swift Gulliver|II|V}}
#*: a dozen apples, each of them near as large as a Bristol barrel, came tumbling about my ears; one of them '''hit''' me on the back as I chanced to stoop, and knocked me down flat on my face.
#* '''1882''', {{w|Nathaniel Hawthorne}}, ''Doctor Grimshawe's Secret: A romance''
#*: Meanwhile the street boys kept up a shower of mud balls, many of which '''hit''' the Doctor, while the rest were distributed upon his assailants.
# {{context|transitive|colloquial|lang=en}} To briefly visit.
#: ''We '''hit''' the grocery store on the way to the park.''
# {{context|transitive|informal|lang=en}} To [[encounter]].
#: ''We '''hit''' a lot of traffic coming back from the movies.''
#: ''You'll '''hit''' some nasty thunderstorms if you descend too late.''
# {{context|transitive|informal|lang=en}} To [[reach]] or [[achieve]].
#: ''We '''hit''' Detroit at one in the morning but kept driving through the night.''
#: ''The temperature could '''hit''' 110° F tomorrow.''
#: ''The movie '''hits''' theaters in December.''
#: ''I '''hit''' the jackpot.''
#* '''2012''', August 1. Owen Gibson in Guardian Unlimited, [http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/aug/01/london-2012-glover-stanning-gb-gold London 2012: rowers Glover and Stanning win Team GB's first gold medal]
#*: And her success with Glover, a product of the National Lottery-funded Sporting Giants talent identification programme, will also spark relief among British officials who were starting to fret a little about '''hitting''' their target of equalling fourth in the medal table from Beijing.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[affect]] [[negatively]].
#: ''The economy was '''hit''' by a recession.''
#: ''The hurricane '''hit''' his fishing business hard.''
# {{context|transitive|slang|lang=en}} To kill a person, usually on the instructions of a third party.
#: '''''Hit''' him tonight and throw the body in the river.''
# {{context|transitive|cards|lang=en}} In [[blackjack]], to deal a card to.
#: '' '''Hit''' me.''
# {{context|intransitive|baseball|lang=en}} To come up to bat.
#: ''Jones '''hit''' for the pitcher.''
# {{context|transitive|computing|programming|lang=en}} To [[use]]; to [[connect]] to.
#: ''The external web servers '''hit''' DBSRV7, but the internal web server '''hits''' DBSRV3.''
# {{context|transitive|US|slang|lang=en}} To have [[sex]] with.
#: ''I'd '''hit''' that.''
# {{context|transitive|US|slang|lang=en}} To inhale an amount of smoke from a narcotic substance, particularly [[marijuana]]
#: ''I '''hit''' that bong every night after work''

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|manage to touch in the right place}} [[miss]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rft}}
{{der-top|Terms derived from the verb "hit"}}
* [[don't let the door hit you on the way out]]
* [[hit a home run]]
* [[hit a nerve]]
* [[hit a six]]
* [[hit a snag]]
* [[hit above one's weight]]
* [[hit and run]]
* [[hit at]]
* [[hit back]]
* [[hit below one's weight]]
* [[hit someone for six|hit for six]]
* [[hit home]]
* [[hit it an quit it]]
* [[hit it big]]
* [[hit it off]]
* [[hitman]]
* [[hit on]]
* [[hit one out of the ballpark]]
* [[hit one's stride]]
* [[hit out]]
* [[hit paydirt]]
* [[hit the ball twice]]
* [[hit the books]]
* [[hit the bottle]]
* [[hit the bricks]]
* [[hit the ceiling]]
* [[hit the deck]]
* [[hit the dirt]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[hit the gas]]
* [[hit the ground running]]
* [[hit the hay]]
* [[hit the head]]
* [[hit the headlines]]
* [[hit the jackpot]]
* [[hit the nail on the head]]
* [[hit the net]]
* [[hit the pan]]
* [[hit the pavement]]
* [[hit the road]]
* [[hit rock bottom]]
* [[hit the rock]]
* [[hit the rocks]]
* [[hit the roof]]
* [[hit the sack]]
* [[hit the silk]]
* [[hit the skids]]
* [[hit the spot]]
* [[hit up]]
* [[hit upon]]
* [[hit wicket]]
* [[hittable]]
* [[hitter]]
* [[hitting]]
* [[not know what hit one]]
* [[pinch-hit]]
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to give a blow}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ضرب|tr=ḍáraba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|խփել}}, {{t-|hy|հարվածել}}
* Aromanian: {{t-|rup|agudescu}}, {{t-|rup|bat}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|jo}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|ўдараць|tr=ŭdarácʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|be|ўдарыць|tr=ŭdárycʹ|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|улучвам}}, {{t|bg|удрям|tr=údrjam|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ရိုက်|tr=yaik|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|colpejar}}, {{t+|ca|batre}}, {{t+|ca|pegar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|打擊|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|打击|tr=dǎjī|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|praštit}}, {{t-|cs|uhodit}}, {{t-|cs|udeřit}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|slå}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|raken}}, {{t+|nl|treffen}}, {{t+|nl|slaan}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|frapi}}, {{t-|eo|bati}}, {{t+|eo|trafi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|iskeä}}, {{t+|fi|lyödä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|frapper}}, {{t+|fr|battre}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|golpear}}, {{t+|gl|bater}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|დარტყმა|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|რტყმა|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}, {{t+|de|treffen}}, {{t+|de|stoßen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χτυπώ|tr=chtypó}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|הרביץ|tr=hirbíts|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|मारना|tr=mārnā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|üt}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|frapar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|colpire}}, {{t-|it|picchiare}}, {{t+|it|battere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|打つ|tr=うつ, utsu}}, {{t+|ja|叩く|tr=たたく, tataku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|paffer}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|치다|tr=chida|sc=Hang}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|sist}}, {{tø|ltg|laubt}}, {{tø|ltg|dyurēt}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|battuo}}, {{t-|la|pello}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|sist}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|удира|tr=údira|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|slå}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|бити|tr=biti|sc=Cyrs}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|زدن|tr=zadan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|uderzać}}, {{t+|pl|uderzyć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|golpear}}, {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Quechua: {{t-|qu|maqay}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|lovi}}, {{t-|ro|bate}}
* Romansch: {{t-|rm|batter}}, {{t-|rm|pitgar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ударять|tr=udarjátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|ударить|tr=udáritʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|стучать|tr=stučátʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|стукнуть|tr=stúknutʹ}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|бить|tr=bitʹ}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|побить|tr=pobítʹ}} {{pf.}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|buail}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|udariti}}, {{qualifier|reflexive}} {{t-|sh|zabiti}}, {{qualifier|vulgar}} {{t-|sh|opizditi}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|udrieť}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|udariti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|golpear}}, {{t+|es|pegar}}, {{t+|es|batir}}, {{t+|es|dar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t-|tpi|paitim}}, {{t-|tpi|kilim}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|вдаряти|tr=vdarjáty|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|uk|вдарити|tr=vdáryty|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|مارنا|tr=mārnā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|flapön}}, {{qualifier|augmentative}} {{t-|vo|leflapön}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|taro}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to come into contact with forcefully and suddenly}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|xocar}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}} [[auf]]/[[gegen]] + accusative, {{qualifier|colloquial}} {{t+|de|knallen}} [[auf]]/[[gegen]] + accusative
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|פגע|tr=pagá|sc=Hebr}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|dar}}, {{t+|es|chocar}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t-|tpi|paitim}}, {{t-|tpi|kilim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to manage to touch in the right place}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|удрям}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|encertar}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|trefit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slaan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|toucher}}
* German: {{t+|de|treffen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aimsigh}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|当てる|tr=ateru}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|treffe}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acertar}}, {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acertar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|träffa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to kill a person on the instructions of a third party}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murhata}}, {{t+|fi|tappaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|morden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in blackjack, to deal a card to}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hit}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to come up to bat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to go (somewhere)}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|käydä}}, {{t+|fi|mennä}}, {{t-|fi|pistäytyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|treffen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to begin}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tulla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|abschlagen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to use}}
* Hittite: {{tø|hit|use|sc=Xsux}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to affect negatively}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vaikeuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|vahingoittaa}}, {{t+|fi|haitata}}, {{t+|fi|kärsiä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ramme}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have sex with}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se taper}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: [[打]] (dă)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[kena]], [[kena|mengenai]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{fa-Arab|[[زدن|زَدَن]]}} (zædæn), {{fa-Arab|[[زن|زَن]]}} (zæn) (present tense)
* {{ttbc|roa-jer}}: {{tø|roa-jer|taper}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[blow]]; a [[punch]]; a striking against; the collision of one body against another; the stroke that touches anything.
#* Dryden
#*: So he the famed Cilician fencer praised, / And, at each '''hit''', with wonder seems amazed.
#: ''The '''hit''' was very slight.''
# A [[success]], especially in the entertainment industry.
#: ''The band played their '''hit''' song to the delight of the fans.''
#* Alexander Pope
#*: What late he called a blessing, now was wit, / And God's good providence, a lucky '''hit'''.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2012
|date=February 9
|author=Tasha Robinson
|title=Film: Review: Chico & Rita
|url=http://www.avclub.com/articles/chico-rita,69067/
|page=
|passage=''Chico & Rita'' opens in the modern era, as an aged, weary Chico shines shoes in his native Cuba. Then a song heard on the radio—a '''hit''' he wrote and recorded with Rita in their youth—carries him back to 1948 Havana, where they first met. }}
# An attack on a location, person or people.
## In the game of ''[[w:Battleship (game)|Battleship]]'', a correct guess at where one's opponent ship is.
# {{context|computing|Internet|lang=en}} The result(s) of a search of a computer system or, for example, the entire Internet using a [[search engine]]
# {{context|Internet|lang=en}} A measured visit to a [[web site]], a request for a single file from a web server.
#: ''My site received twice as many '''hits''' after being listed in a [[search engine]].''
# An approximately correct answer in a [[test set]].
# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} The complete play, when the [[batter]] reaches [[base]] without the benefit of a [[walk]], [[error]], or fielder’s choice.
#: ''The catcher got a '''hit''' to lead off the fifth.''
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} A dose of an illegal or addictive drug.
#: ''Where am I going to get my next '''hit'''?''
# A premeditated [[murder]] done for criminal or political purposes.
# {{context|dated|lang=en}} A peculiarly apt expression or turn of thought; a phrase which hits the mark.
#: ''a happy '''hit'''''
# A game won at [[backgammon]] after the adversary has removed some of his men. It counts for less than a [[gammon]].

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|a punch}} [[miss]]
* {{sense|success}} [[flop]], [[turkey]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* [[banjo hit]]
* [[base hit]]
* [[cult hit]]
* [[direct hit]]
* [[hit counter]]
* [[hit list]]
* [[hit parade]]
* [[hit point]]
* [[hit squad]]
* [[hit test]]
* [[infield hit]]
* [[king hit]]
* [[nervous hit]]
* [[no hit]]
* [[one-hit wonder]]
* [[pinch hit]]
* [[smash hit]]
* [[straight hit]]
* [[take a hit]]
{{der-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|blow, punch}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հարված|tr=harvaç}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|удар|m|tr=udar}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|cop|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|úder|m}}, {{t+|cs|rána|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slag|f}}, {{t+|nl|stoot|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|frapo}}, {{t-|eo|bato}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}, {{t+|fi|lyönti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup|m}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schlag|m}}, {{t+|de|Hieb|m}}, {{t+|de|Stoß|m}}, {{t+|de|Treffer|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מכה|tr=maká|sc=Hebr}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|frapo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|sitīņs}}, {{tø|ltg|īsisšona}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|sitiens}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|smūgis}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|slag|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|uderzenie|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|удар|m|tr=udár}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|beum|m}}, {{t-|gd|bualadh|m}}, {{t-|gd|buille|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|úder|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|golpe|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slag|n}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|flap}}, {{qualifier|augmentative}} {{t-|vo|leflap}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|success, especially in the entertainment industry}}
* Bulgarian: [[хит]] (khit) {{m}}, [[шлагер]] (šlager) {{m}}
* Catalan: [[èxit]] {{m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hit|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hit|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hitti}}, {{t+|fi|menestys}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hit|m}}, {{t+|fr|tube|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hit|m}}, {{t+|de|Erfolg|m}}, {{t+|de|Schlager|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|sláger}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|ヒット|tr=hitto}}
* Manx: {{t-|gv|ard-speeideilys|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hit|m}}, {{t-|no|slager|m}}
* Polish: {{l|pl|hit}} {{m}}; [[przebój]] {{m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|șlagăr|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|хит|m|tr=xit}}, {{t+|ru|шлягер|m|tr=šljáger}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|éxito|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hit|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|attack on a location}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanslag|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|frappe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anschlag|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|anslag|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(computing) (Internet) result of a search}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hit|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Treffer|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|نتیجه|tr=natije|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acierto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(Internet) measured visit to a web site}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hit|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|approximately correct answer in a test set}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(baseball) complete play, when the batter reaches base}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup sûr|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|安打|tr=anda|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|ヒット|tr=hitto|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|dose of an illegal or addictive drug}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|annos}}, {{t+|fi|satsi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taffe|f}}, {{t+|fr|bouffée|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|skudd|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|murder for criminal or political purposes}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrat|m}}, [[assassinat]] [[commandité]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|cmn}}: [[命中]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: hit
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[colpo]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[衝突]], [[ヒット]] (hitto)
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[명중]] (byeongchung)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[batida]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|hit||it|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|hit||it|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|hit||this, this one|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{recons|k'e-|lang=ine-pro}}, {{recons|k'ey-||this, here|lang=ine-pro}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|het||it|lang=nl}}. More at {{l|en|it}}. Note [['it]].

====Pronoun====
{{en-pron|subjective and objective|hit|reflexive and intensive|hitself|possessive adjective and noun|hits}}

# {{context|dialectal|lang=en}} {{l|en|it|It}}.
#* '''1922''', Philip Gengembre Hubert, The Atlantic monthly, Volume 130:
#*: But how '''hit''' was to come about didn't appear.
#* '''1998''', Nancy A. Walker, What's so funny?: humor in American culture:
#*: Now, George, grease it good, an' let '''hit''' slide down the hill '''hits''' own way.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|hits}}
* {{l|en|hitself}}

===Anagrams===
* [[iht#English|iht]], [[ith#English|ith]]

[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English past participles]]
[[Category:English simple past forms]]

----

==Alemannic German==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|goh|gsw}} {{term|hiutu|lang=goh}}, a contraction of ''hiu tagu'', a [[calque]] on {{etyl|la|gsw}} {{term|hodie|lang=la}}. Cognate with {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|heute|lang=de}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|heden|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɪt/|lang=gsw}}

===Adverb===
{{head|gsw|adverb}}

# {{context|Alsatian|lang=gsw}} [[today]]
#: '''''Hit''' isch dr Jean-Pierre so drüri.'' — Jean-Pierre is so sad '''today'''.

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hɪt/|lang=cs}}
* {{audio|Cs-hit.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[hit#English|hit]] (a success, especially in the entertainment industry)

====Synonyms====
* [[šlágr]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
From {{term|hisz||to believe|lang=hu}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈhit/|lang=hu}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ek}}

# [[faith]], [[belief]]

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-ek|hi|t|et}}{{hu-pos-etek|hit||ei}}

====Derived terms====
* [[egyistenhit]]
* [[hitvallás]]
* [[hittan]]

[[Category:Hungarian three-letter words]]

----

==Limburgish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|nl|li}}, from {{etyl|en|li}} [[hit#English|hit]]

===Noun===
{{head|li|noun|g=f}}

# (slang, Dutch) something popular (book, song, band, country)

====Usage notes====
Slang. Mainly used when speaking Dutch, rather than in real Limburgish. Overall speaking, Limburgish is more conservative, so ''[[slaag]]'' is more often used.

====Inflection====
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center;"
|+ '''Inflection'''
!
! Root singular
! Root plural
! Diminutive singular
! Diminutive plural
|-
! [[nominative|Nominative]]
| hit
| hits
| hitje
| hitjes
|-
! [[genitive|Genitive]]
| hit
| hits
| hitjes
| hitjes
|-
! [[locative|Locative]]
| hittes
| hitteser
| hitteske
| hitteskes
|-
! [[dative|Dative]]¹²
| —
| —
| —
| —
|-
! [[accusative|Accusative]]¹²
| —
| —
| —
| —
|}
* Dative and accusative are nowadays obsolete, use nominative instead.
* The dative got out of use around 1900. As this is a recent loanword, there is no conjugation for it to be found.

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=dum|/hɪt/}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|dum|pronoun}}

# {{alternative form of|het|lang=dum}}

----

==Middle English==

===Pronoun===
{{head|enm|pronoun}}

# [[it]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Adverb===
{{head|no|adverb}}

# [[here]] (to this place)

{{tbot entry|Norwegian|here|2010|March|no}}

----

==Old Dutch==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|odt|it}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|odt}} {{recons|hit|lang=gem-pro}}.

===Pronoun===
{{head|odt|pronoun}}

# [[it]]

====Descendants====
* Dutch: {{l|nl|het}}

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|ang}} {{recons|hit||this, this one|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|ang}} {{recons|k'e-|lang=ine-pro}}, {{recons|k'ey-||this, here|lang=ine-pro}}. Cognate with {{etyl|ofs|-}} {{term|hit||it|lang=ofs}}, {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|iz||it|lang=goh}}, {{etyl|got|-}} {{term|𐌷𐌹𐍄𐌰||it|tr=hita|lang=got|sc=Goth}}. More at {{l|ang|he|hē}}.

===Pronoun===
{{head|ang|pronoun|g=n|accusative|hit|genitive|his|dative|him}}

# [[it]]

====Descendants====
* [[Middle English]]: {{l|enm|hit}}, {{l|enm|it}}
* English: {{l|enm|it}}, {{context|dialectal|lang=ang}} {{l|en|hit}}

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|pl}} {{term|hit|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/xit̪/|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|Pl-hit.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{head|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[hit]] (a success, especially in the entertainment industry)

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|hit|hity
|hitu|hitów
|hitowi|hitom
|hit|hity
|hitem|hitami
|hicie|hitach
|hicie|hity
}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|en|sv}} {{term|hit|lang=en}}.

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|c}}

# {{context|informal|lang=sv}} [[#English|hit]]; something very popular. (A book, a movie, a song, ...)

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|gmq-osw|sv}} ''hit'', from *''hī''+''at''.
* ''hī'', from {{etyl|ine-pro|sv}} {{recons|kei-|lang=ine-pro}} (as in Ancient Greek {{term|εκεί|ekei|lang=grc}})
* ''at'', from {{etyl|gem-pro|sv}} {{recons|at|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sv}} {{recons|ád|lang=ine-pro}} (as in Swedish {{term|åt|lang=sv}})
Composed in a similar way: Icelandic {{term|hegat|lang=is}} and {{term|hingað|lang=is}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{audio|Sv-hit.ogg|audio}}

====Adverb====
{{sv-adv|-}}

# [[here]]; to [[this]] place, [[hither]]
#: ''Jag kom '''hit''' igår''
#:: I came here yesterday

=====Antonyms=====
* [[dit]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[hitåt]]

=====See also=====
* [[hit och dit]]

[[Category:Appalachian English]]

[[ang:hit]]
[[ca:hit]]
[[cs:hit]]
[[cy:hit]]
[[da:hit]]
[[de:hit]]
[[et:hit]]
[[el:hit]]
[[es:hit]]
[[eo:hit]]
[[eu:hit]]
[[fr:hit]]
[[gl:hit]]
[[ko:hit]]
[[hr:hit]]
[[io:hit]]
[[id:hit]]
[[it:hit]]
[[kn:hit]]
[[kk:hit]]
[[ku:hit]]
[[lo:hit]]
[[lv:hit]]
[[lt:hit]]
[[li:hit]]
[[hu:hit]]
[[mg:hit]]
[[ml:hit]]
[[my:hit]]
[[fj:hit]]
[[nl:hit]]
[[ja:hit]]
[[no:hit]]
[[pl:hit]]
[[pt:hit]]
[[ru:hit]]
[[sm:hit]]
[[simple:hit]]
[[fi:hit]]
[[sv:hit]]
[[tl:hit]]
[[ta:hit]]
[[te:hit]]
[[th:hit]]
[[tr:hit]]
[[uk:hit]]
[[vi:hit]]
[[vo:hit]]
[[zh:hit]]