==English==
{{was wotd|2009|September|8}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|hobson-jobson}}

===Etymology===
Coined in this sense by [[w:Henry Yule|Yule]] and [[w:Arthur Coke Burnell|Burnell]] in their dictionary [[w:Hobson-Jobson|''Hobson-Jobson'']]. Special use of colonial British slang ''Hobson-Jobson'', any Indian religious observance, especially the [[Muharram]], derived from adapting the call ''Hassan! Hussein!'' ({{m|ar|حسن حسين|tr=ḥasan! ḥusayn!||}}, a lament for the grandsons of the Prophet [[Muhammad]]) to ''Hobson'' and ''Jobson'', a pair of comic figures popular in the nineteenth century. <ref>{{quote-book|year=2010|author=T. Nagle|title='Cunning Passages, Contrived Corridors': Unexpected Essays in the History of Lexicography|chapter='There is Much, Very Much, in the Name of a Book' or, the Famous Title of Hobson-Jobson and How it Got that Way|isbn=8876992073|publisher=Monza: Polimetrica|page=111–128}}</ref><ref>{{quote-magazine|year=2014|author=James Lambert|title=A much tortured expression: A new look at Hobson-Jobson.|volume=27|issue=1|page=54-88|magazine=International Journal of Lexicography|url=http://ijl.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2013/11/27/ijl.ect037}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˌhɒb.sənˈdʒɒb.sən/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌhɑb.sənˈdʒɑb.sən/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

{{examples-right|examples=English {{m|en|hoosegow||jail}} from Spanish {{m|es|juzgado|}}<br />English {{m|en|plonk||cheap wine}} from the word "''blanc''" in {{m|fr|vin blanc||white wine}}}}

# A [[word]] or [[phrase]] [[borrow]]ed by one [[language]] from another and [[modify|modified]] in [[pronunciation]] to fit the [[set]] of [[sound]]s the borrowing language typically uses.
#* '''1977''', Robert H. Stacy, ''Defamiliarization in Language and Literature, page 51:
#*: If the French for pun, ''calembour'', derives (as Spitzer maintained) from "conundrum"; this points up well the at first puzzling effect of such devices. ''Caran d'Ache'' is in fact an intentional '''hobson-jobson'''.
#* '''2003''', Jan Venolia, ''The Right Word!'', page 4:
#*: A '''Hobson-Jobson''' turns a difficult word or phrase into something more tractable (or perhaps less offensive). By that route, a Texas river that French trappers had named Purgatoire became the Picketwire, and the Malay word ''kampong'' became the English word ''compound''.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|law of Hobson-Jobson}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|mondegreen}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|borrowed word with altered pronunciation}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|erikoislaina}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
* French : "pataquès" (cf Wiktionnaire , & "Larousse du XX° siècle", 5/6, p.412) - "pompion" (cf Wiktionnaire)

====See also====
* {{l|en|calque}}
* [http://en.wiktionary.org/w/index.php?title=Special%3ASearch&redirs=0&search=hobson-jobson&fulltext=Search&ns0=1&ns100=1&title=Special%3ASearch&advanced=1&fulltext=Advanced+search Entries referring to "Hobson-Jobson" at Wiktionary]

===External links===
* Yule, Henry, Sir. [http://dsal.uchicago.edu/dictionaries/hobsonjobson ''Hobson-Jobson: A glossary of colloquial Anglo-Indian words and phrases, and of kindred terms, etymological, historical, geographical and discursive'']. New ed. edited by William Crooke, B.A. London: J. Murray, 1903. A part of the [http://dsal.uchicago.edu/dictionaries/ Digital Dictionaries of South Asia].
* Full text of ''Hobson-Jobson'', 2nd edition, at [http://books.google.com/books?id=PQYYAAAAMAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=hobson-jobson&ei=N3JKSqa4BoGczQT-w7myBg Google Books]

===References===
<references/>