{{also|Hole}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|hol|lang=ang}} 'orifice, hollow place', from {{proto|Germanic|xulan}} (compare {{etyl|dum|-}} {{term|hool|lang=dum}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Höhle|lang=goh}}, {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|holr|lang=non}}), noun form of {{proto|Germanic|xulaz}} 'hollow'. More at [[hollow]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/həʊl/}}, {{SAMPA|/h@Ul/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR| hōl}}, {{IPA|/hoʊl/}}, {{SAMPA|/hoUl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-hole.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|əʊl}}
* Homophones: [[whole]] (depends on accent)

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[hollow]] spot in a [[surface]].
#: ''Get some popcorn out of that popcorn bucket '''hole'''.''
# An [[opening]] in a solid.
#: ''There’s a '''hole''' in my bucket.''
# {{golf}} A subsurface standard-size hole, also called [[cup]], hitting the ball into which is the object of play. Each hole, of which there are usually eighteen as the standard on a [[full course]], is located on a prepared surface, called the [[green]], of a particular type grass.
# {{golf}} The part of a game in which a [[player]] attempts to hit the [[ball]] into one of the holes.
#: ''I played 18 '''holes''' yesterday.'' ''The second '''hole''' today cost me three strokes over par.''
# {{archeology|slang}} An excavation pit or trench.
# {{figuratively}} A [[weakness]], a [[flaw]]
#: ''I have found a '''hole''' in your argument.''
# {{informal}} A container or receptacle.
#: ''car '''hole'''; brain '''hole'''''
# {{physics}} In [[semiconductor]]s, a lack of an [[electron]] in an occupied band behaving like a positively charged [[particle]].
# {{computing}} A [[security]] [[vulnerability]] in [[software]] which can be taken advantage of by an [[exploit]].
# {{context|slang anatomy}} An [[orifice]], in particular the [[anus]].
# {{informal}} A high-security [[prison cell]], often used as punishment.
# {{slang}} An undesirable place to live or visit; a [[hovel]]
#: ''His apartment is a '''hole'''!''
# {{baseball}} The rear portion of the defensive team between the [[shortstop]] and the third baseman.
#: ''The shortstop ranged deep into the '''hole''' to make the stop.''

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|Terms derived from the noun "hole"}} <!--Note: four columns may seem unnecessary at the moment, but eventually there will be many more derived terms here-->
* [[arsehole]], [[asshole]]
* [[black hole]]
* [[bolthole]]
* [[bullet hole]]
* [[burn a hole in one's pocket]]
* [[button hole]]
* [[cakehole]]
* [[countersunk hole]]
* [[cubby hole]]
* [[donut hole]]
* [[electron hole]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[fox-hole]], [[fox hole]], [[foxhole]]
* [[glory hole]]
* [[gnamma hole]]
* [[gunk-hole]]
* [[hellhole]]
* [[hole in one]]
* [[hole-in-the-wall]]
* [[hole punch]]
* [[hole state]]
* [[holey]]
* [[in the hole]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[keyhole]]
* [[loophole]]
* [[man-hole]], [[manhole]]
* [[mouse-hole]], [[mousehole]]
* [[nineteenth hole]]
* [[pesthole]]
* [[pigeonhole]]
* [[pilot hole]]
* [[poophole]]
* [[pothole]]
* [[pritchel hole]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[rathole]]
* [[sink hole]]
* [[sound hole]]
* [[toad-in-the-hole]]
* [[top hole]]
* [[touch hole]]
* [[watering hole]]
* [[white hole]]
* [[wonky hole]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|hollow in some surface}}
* Armenian: [[անցք]] (anc'k'), [[ծակ]] (çak)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|díra|f}}
* Dutch: [[gaatje]] {{n}}, [[gat]] {{n}}, [[holletje]] {{n}}, [[opening]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuoppa}}, {{t+|fi|kolo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|creux|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ნახვრეტი|tr=naxvreti|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Loch|n}}
* {{trreq|Greek}}
*: {{trreq|{{grc|l=}}}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[چاڵ]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|bedre|f}}, {{t|lv|dobums|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|duobė|f}}
* Mongolian: [[нүх]] (nüh)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dziura|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|buraco|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|gaură}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hueco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hål|n}}
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|opening in a solid}}
* Armenian: [[անցք]] (anc'k'), [[ծակ]] (çak)
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|forat|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|díra|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|holte|f}}, {{t+|nl|gat|n}}, {{t+|nl|opening|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|reikä}}, {{t+|fi|aukko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|trou|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Loch|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lyuk}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hola|f}}, {{t|is|gat|n}}
* Kurdish: {{t-|ku|کون|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|caurums|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|skylė|f}}, {{t|lt|anga|f}}, {{t|lt|kiaurymė|f}}
* [[Occitan]]: {{t+|oc|trauc|m|xs=Occitan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|otwór|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|buraco}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|gaură}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
* Spanish: {{qualifier|Spain}} {{t+|es|agujero|m}}, {{t+|es|hoyo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hål|n}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|hog}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|weakness, flaw}}
* Dutch: [[gat]] {{n}}, [[leemte]], [[zwak]]ke [[plek]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aukko}}
* Polish: [[słaby punkt]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hål|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|container}}
* Polish: [[wykop]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lack of an electron}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aukko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|trou|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dziura|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hål|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|security vulnerability}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gat|n}}, {{t+|nl|leemte}}
* French: {{t+|fr|faille|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|orifice}}
: see [[anus]] etc. for specific body cavities''
* Bengali: {{t|bn|হোল|tr=hol|sc=Beng}}
* Dutch: [[lichaamsholte]]
* French: {{t+|fr|trou|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|otwór|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|отверстие|n|tr=otvérstije|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place where a prisoner is kept}}
* Dutch: de [[put]] {{m}}, [[vergeetput]], [[bajes]], [[lik]], [[nor]]
* French: {{t+|fr|trou|m}}, {{t+|fr|mitard|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[karcer]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|undesirable place}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|díra|f}}
* Dutch: de [[put]] {{m}}, [[zwart]] [[gat]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dziura|f}}, {{t+|pl|nora|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|portion of a game of golf}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|jamka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hole}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|reikä}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dołek|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|luknja|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hoyo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hål|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[vrimë]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|eu}}: [[uts]], [[huskune]]
* {{ttbc|ca}}: [[forat]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|zh}}: [[洞]] (Mandarin: dòng , Cantonese: dong3)
*: {{ttbc|yue}}: [[窿]] (lon1)
* {{ttbc|hr}}: [[rupa]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[kavo]], [[truo]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[חור]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[穴]] ([[あな]], ana)
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[puta]]
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[buraco]] {{m}}, [[cova]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[gaură]] {{f}}, [[deschizătură]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[కంత]], [[చిల్లు]], [[బొక్క]], [[రంధ్రం]] (bokka, kaMta, cillu, raMdhraM)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[çukur]], [[delik]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|hol|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To make holes in (an object or surface).
#: ''Shrapnel '''holed''' the ship's hull.''
# {{transitive|by extention}} To [[destroy]].
#: She completely holed the argument.

====Derived terms====
* [[holeable]]
* [[holer]]
* [[hole up]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make holes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|doorboren}}, {{t|nl|doorzeven}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|läpäistä}}, {{t+|fi|rei'ittää}}, [[tehdä]] [[reikä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|trouer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|gera gat á}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|göra hål i}}, {{t-|sv|slå hål i}}, {{t|sv|punktera}} {{qualifier|something inflated}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[OHLE#English|OHLE]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈhoːlə/|lang=de}}

===Verb===
'''hole'''

# {{de-verb form of|holen|1|s|g}}
# {{de-verb form of|holen|1|s|k1}}
# {{de-verb form of|holen|3|s|k1}}
# {{de-verb form of|holen|i|s}}

[[ang:hole]]
[[ar:hole]]
[[cs:hole]]
[[cy:hole]]
[[de:hole]]
[[et:hole]]
[[es:hole]]
[[fa:hole]]
[[fr:hole]]
[[gl:hole]]
[[ko:hole]]
[[io:hole]]
[[id:hole]]
[[it:hole]]
[[kn:hole]]
[[kk:hole]]
[[sw:hole]]
[[ku:hole]]
[[lo:hole]]
[[hu:hole]]
[[ml:hole]]
[[my:hole]]
[[nl:hole]]
[[oc:hole]]
[[pl:hole]]
[[pt:hole]]
[[ru:hole]]
[[st:hole]]
[[simple:hole]]
[[fi:hole]]
[[sv:hole]]
[[ta:hole]]
[[te:hole]]
[[th:hole]]
[[uk:hole]]
[[vi:hole]]
[[zh:hole]]