==English==

=== Alternate forms ===
* [[holo cube]]
* [[holo-cube]]

===Etymology===
{{prefix|holo|cube}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{science fiction}} A device that shows or stores [[holographic]] pictures.
#* '''1976''', [[w: Joe Haldeman]], ''The Forever War'', New York: Ballantine Books, p 113:
#*: One wall was a huge '''holo cube''' displaying Geneva's table of organization, a spidery orange pyramid with tens of thousands of names connected by lines, from the mayor at the top to the “corridor security” people at the base.
#* '''1978''', [[w: Charles Sheffield]], “The Deimos Plague”, in ''Stellar Science Fiction Stories'', n 4, New York: Del Rey, p 146:
#*: He snapped a '''holo-cube''' into the projector and switched on. I gasped and shrank back in my seat as a great crustacean sprang into being in front of me, blind, chitinous, rust-red, and malevolent.
#* '''1990''', ''Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction'', v 79, p 113:
#*: And on a little table beside the bed, he found a '''holocube''' with a tiny picture of a woman wearing a yellow dress in it. When he moved the '''’cube''', the woman waved at him and laughed.
#* '''1992''', [[w: Isaac Asimov]] and [[w: Robert Silverberg]], ''The Positronic Man'', New York: Doubleday, p 25:
#*: Not a cassette, not an infodisk, not a '''holocube''', but an actual book, with a cover and binding and pages.

====Quotations====
Used in ''[[w:Flashback: The Quest for Identity|Flashback: The Quest for Identity]]'' ([[video game]]), ''[[w:Star Wars|Star Wars]]'', ''[[w:Tyrian (video game)|Tyrian]]'', and ''[[w:Spider-Man (1994 TV series)|Spider-Man]]'' (1994 TV series).