==English==

===Etymology===
From {{compound|en|home|brewed}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|of a beverage}} [[brew|Brewed]] at [[home]].
#* '''1914''', Marie Corelli, ''Innocent: Her Fancy and His Fact'', Library of Alexandria (ISBN 9781465536877)
#*: The girl made a wry little face. "I don't like beer, Mr. Landon," she said. "It's horrid stuff, even when it's '''homebrewed'''!
#* '''2001''', John J. Palmer, ''How to Brew: Ingredients, Methods, Recipes, and Equipment for Brewing Beer at Home'' (ISBN 9780971057906), page 136
#*: Two common questions are, "How long will a '''homebrewed''' beer keep?" and "Will it spoil?" The answer is that '''homebrewed''' beer has a fairly long storage life.
#* '''2015''', Tamora Pierce, ''Wild Magic'', Simon and Schuster (ISBN 9781481440233), page 39
#*: She felt dizzy and befuddled, almost like the time she had swiped a drink of her mother's '''homebrewed''' mead.
# {{lb|en|by extension}} [[homemade|Homemade]].
#* '''1985''', Jim Richard Campbell, ''Flyer's guide to ultralights''
#*: It is somewhat characteristic of this aircraft's designer that he found a '''homebrewed''' solution to the high cost of fabricating this curved boom section.
#* '''2014''', Jay Bonansinga, Robert Kirkman, ''Robert Kirkman's The Walking Dead: Descent'', Macmillan (ISBN 9781466860773)
#*: Bob concocts his own '''homebrewed''' version of the fuel by mixing old cooking oil, a small amount of gasoline, methanol from an antifreeze called Heet (found at the auto parts store), and a few gallons of Drano (which contains sodium hydroxide).
#* '''2016''', Dr. Richard Evans, ''My Summers in West Africa: The Account of a Medical Missionary'', Xlibris Corporation (ISBN 9781524537340)
#*: Her tribal doctor also gave her some '''homebrewed''' powdered medicine, which he mixed in water.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|brewed at home}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|homemade}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[drink|Drink]] [[brewed]] at [[home]]. {{rfv-sense|lang=en}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1888 |title=Fifty Years of a Showman's Life, Or, The Life and Travels of Van Hare |author=G. Van Hare  |page= |ISBN= |passage=They soon made friends again over a pipe and some '''homebrewed'''. }}
#* {{quote-book|year=1936 |title=Fiction Parade and Golden Book Magazine - Volume 3  |author=Francis Rufus Bellamy  |page=113 |ISBN= |passage=And they shook hands on it there and then, and Mr. Lang called for a girl to bring out some '''homebrewed''' from the cellar to make a bargain of it. }}
#* {{quote-book|year=2003|title=Just in Time  |author=Judith Lansdowne  |page=131 |ISBN=0821774212 |passage=Because you actually came inside and sat down and are drinking '''homebrewed''' with a smile on your face. Because you brought your hound in with you and he's drinking '''homebrewed''' as well. }}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|homebrew}}