==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=home (disambiguation)|home}}
{{rank|brought|woman|want|233|home|whose|words|given}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|hom|lang=enm}} < {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|ham|hām|lang=en}} < {{proto|Germanic|heimaz|lang=en}} < {{proto|Indo-European|tkoi-|lang=en}}, an o-grade variant <!--This jargon may better be avoided --> of {{proto|Indo-European|tkei-|lang=en|title=}}. Cognate with German {{term|Heim|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|hem|lang=sv}}, Dutch {{term|heem|lang=nl}} and {{term|heim-|lang=nl}}, and the place-name segment {{term|-ham||village|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|British}} {{enPR|hōm}}, {{IPA|/həʊm/}}, {{SAMPA|/h@Um/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|hōm}}, {{IPA|/hoʊm/}}, {{SAMPA|/hoUm/}}
* {{audio|en-us-home.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|əʊm}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# One’s own [[dwell]]ing place; the [[house]] or structure in which one [[live]]s; especially the house in which one lives with his [[family]]; the habitual [[abode]] of one’s family; also, one’s [[birthplace]].
#: ''The disciples went away again to their own '''home'''.'' —John xx. 10.
#: '''''Home''' is the sacred refuge of our life.'' — [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]].
#: '''''Home! home!''' sweet, sweet '''home'''! There’s no place like '''home'''.'' — [[w:John Howard Payne|John Howard Payne]].
# One’s [[native]] land; the place or [[country]] in which one dwells; the place where one’s ancestors dwell or dwelt.
#: ''Our old '''home''' England.'' — [[w:Nathaniel Hawthorne|Nathaniel Hawthorne]].
# The place where a person was [[raise]]d. [[childhood|Childhood]] or [[parental]] home. Home of one’s parents or [[guardian]].
#: ''I left '''home''' last year.''
# The [[abiding]] place of the [[affection]]s, especially of the [[domestic]] affections.
#: ''He entered in his house — his '''home''' no more, For without hearts there is no '''home'''.'' — [[w:George Gordon Byron|George Gordon Byron]].
# The [[locality]] where a thing is usually found, or was first found, or where it is naturally abundant; [[habitat]]; [[seat]].
#: ''the '''home''' of the pine.
#: ''Her eyes are '''homes''' of silent prayer.'' — [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]].
#: ''Flandria, by plenty made the '''home''' of war.'' — [[w:Matthew Prior|Matthew Prior]].
# A place of [[refuge]] and [[rest]]; an [[asylum]]; as, a home for [[outcast]]s; a home for the blind; hence, especially, the grave; the final rest; also, the native and eternal dwelling place of the soul.
#: ''Man goeth to his long '''home''', and the mourners go about the streets.'' —Eccl. xii.
# {{gaming}} In various games, the ultimate point aimed at in a progress; the [[goal]].
# {{baseball}} [[home plate|Home plate]].
# {{lacrosse}} The place of a [[player]] in front of an opponent’s [[goal]]; also, the player.
# {{internet}} The landing page of a website; the site's '''home''' page

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|one’s own dwelling place}} [[tenement]], [[house]], [[dwelling]], [[abode]], [[domicile]], [[residence]]
* {{sense|(baseball) home plate}} [[home base]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun "home"}}
* [[at home]]
* [[bring home]]
* [[broken home]]
* [[drive home]]
* [[funeral home]]
* [[holiday home]]
* [[homebuilder]]
* [[home computer]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[Home Depot]]
* [[home-grown]]
* [[home help]]
* [[home is where you hang your hat]]
* [[home is where the heart is]]
* [[home-made]]
* [[home movie]]
* [[homeowner]]
* [[home plate]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[home run]]
* [[Home Secretary]]
* [[home stretch]]
* [[home teach]]
* [[home team]]
* [[motor home]]
* [[nursing home]]
* [[parental home]]
{{rel-bottom}}
{{lookfrom|home}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|house or structure in which someone lives}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|shtëpi|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|بيت|m|tr=bayt|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|տուն|tr=tun|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* {{trreq|Basque}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|dom|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|дом|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[llar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|ajkochi}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: [[家]] (jiā)
*: Min Nan: [[厝]] ([[chhù]]); [[㢄]] ([[tau]])
* [[Chiricahua]]: [[kuugha̧]]
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|dom|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hjem|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|huis|m}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kodu}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maison|f}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|fogar|m|xs=Galician}}
* Georgian: [[სახლი]] (saxli)
* German: {{t+|de|Heim|n}}, {{t+|de|Zuhause|n}}, {{t+|de|Wohnung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σπίτι|n|tr=spíti|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|בית|báyit}} {{m}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|घर|m|sc=Deva|xs=Hindi}} (ghar)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|otthon}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|hemo|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|casa|f}}
* Japanese: [[家]] ([[いえ]], ie)
* [[Kannada]]: [[ಮನೆ]] (mane)
* Kurdish: [[mal]], {{ku-Arab|[[ماڵ]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|domus|f}}, {{t+|la|domicilium|n}}
* [[Livonian]]: [[kuod]]
* [[Macedonian]]: [[дом#Macedonian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|dar|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Marathi]]: [[घर]] (ghar) {{n}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[chantli]]
* Navajo: [[hooghan]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hjem|n}}, {{t+|no|heim|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dom|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lar|m}}, {{t+|pt|casa|f}}
* [[Punjabi]]: [[ਘਰ]] (ghar)
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|casă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дом|m|tr=dom|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dachaigh|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t+|gd|taigh|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[дом#Serbian|дом]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[dom#Serbian|dom]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dom|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hogar|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hem|n}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[bahay]], [[tahanan]]
* [[Tajik]]: [[хона]] (hona)
* [[Telugu]]: {{t+|te|ఇల్లు|sc=Telu}} (illu)
* Thai: {{Thai|[[บ้าน]]}} (bâan)
* [[Tulu]]: [[ಇಲ್ಲು]] (illu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ev}}, {{t+|tr|yurt}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|گھر|m|sc=ur-Arab|xs=Urdu}} (ghar)
* Vietnamese: [[nhà]], [[nhà cửa]], nhà [[ở]], [[chỗ]] ở; [[nơi sinh]] (birthplace)
* [[Western Apache]]: [[gowąh]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|someone’s native land}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|domovina|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|hjemland|n}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|moederland|n}}
* Estonian: [[kodumaa]], [[isamaa]]
* Finnish: [[kotimaa]], [[kotiseutu]], [[kotipesä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|patrie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Heimat|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πατρίδα|f|tr=patrída|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|בית|báyit}} {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|szülőföld}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|patria|f}}, {{t+|it|paese|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[故郷]] ([[こきょう]], kokyō), [[母国]] ([[ぼこく]], bokoku)
* [[Macedonian]]: [[татковина]] (tatkovina) {{f}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|pajjiż|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hjemland}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lar|m}}, {{t+|pt|casa|f}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dachaigh|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dom|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hemland|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|vatan}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|quê hương|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|tổ quốc|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|childhood or parental home}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|dom|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* Estonian: [[sünnikodu]]
* German: {{t+|de|Zuhause|n}}, {{t+|de|Elternhaus|n}}, {{t+|de|Nest|n}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|בית|báyit}} {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|otthon}}
* Japanese: [[故郷]] ([[こきょう]], kokyō), [[実家]] ([[じっか]], jikka)
* Kurdish: [[mal]], {{ku-Arab|[[ماڵ]]}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[дом#Macedonian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[chantli]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|barndomshjem}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lar|m}}, {{t+|pt|casa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дом|m|tr=dom|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dachaigh|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dom|m}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[บ้าน]]}} (bâan)
* Vietnamese: [[nhà]], [[quê hương]], [[nơi chôn]] (lit. "place of burial")
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place of the affections}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|dom|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|thuis}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[дом#Macedonian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hjemme}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lar|m}}, {{t+|pt|casa|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дом|m|tr=dom|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dachaigh|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dom|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nhà|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|habitat}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|dom|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Heimat|f}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|בית|báyit}} {{m}}, {{he-translation|מקום|makóm}} {{m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|habitat|m}}, {{t+|it|dimora|f}}
* Japanese: [[生息地]] ([[せいそくち]], seisokuchi)
* [[Macedonian]]: [[дом#Macedonian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}, [[живеалиште]] (živealište) {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|dar|xs=Maltese}}, {{t-|mt|abitat|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hjem}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lar|m}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[నివాసం]] (nivaasaM)
* Thai: {{Thai|[[บ้าน]]}} (bâan)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|place of refuge or rest}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Heim|n}}
* Kurdish: [[mal]], {{ku-Arab|[[ماڵ]]}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[прибежиште]] (pribežište) {{n}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[chantli]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hjem}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dachaigh|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dom|m}}
* Vietnamese: [[viện]] (home for outcasts, handicapped, elderly, etc.; lit. "institution"); [[trại]] [[mồ côi]] (home for orphans)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|goal (sports)}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domov|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|meta|f}}, {{t+|it|traguardo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đích|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[tuiste]]
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[llar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[huis]] {{n}}, [[thuis]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[hejmo]]
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[kodu]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[hemo]]
* {{ttbc|Kinyarwanda}}: [[urugo]]
* {{ttbc|Old English}}: [[eard]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[ham#Old English|hām]] (1)
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[dom]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[casă]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[hogar]]
* {{ttbc|Thai}}: {{Thai|[[บ้าน]]}} (bâan); {{Thai|[[ที่อยู่]]}} (tee-yoo)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ev]], [[yurt]]
* {{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[tref]] {{f}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|hom|ing}}

# ''(usually with "in on")'' To [[seek]] or aim for something.
#: ''The missile was able to '''home''' on the target.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to home ("in on")}}
* German: {{t+|de|anpeilen}}, {{t+|de|zielen}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|наводиться|tr=navodít’s'a|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|навестись|tr=nav'estís'|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|sikta in}}, {{t-|sv|sikta in sig på}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of or pertaining to one’s [[dwelling]] or [[country]]; [[domestic]]; not [[foreign]]; as home manufactures; home comforts.
# [[close|Close]]; [[personal]]; [[pointed]]; as, a home thrust.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adjective "home"}}
* [[home base]]
* [[home brew]]
* [[home economics]]
* [[home farm]]
* [[home front]]
* [[home lot]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[home movie]]
* [[home page]]
* [[home port]]
* [[home plate]]
* [[home range]]
* [[home rule]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[home ruler]]
* [[home run]]
* [[home stretch]]
* [[home theater]]
* [[home thrust]]
* [[home video]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# To one’s home or [[country]]; as in the phrases, ''[[go home]]'', ''[[come home]]'', ''[[carry home]]''.
# [[close|Close]]; [[closely]].
#: '''How '''home''' the charge reaches us, has been made out.'' —South.
#: ''They come '''home''' to men’s business and bosoms.'' —Bacon.
# To the place where it [[belong]]s; to the end of a course; to the full length.
#: ''to drive a nail '''home'''''
#: ''to ram a cartridge '''home'''''
#: ''Wear thy good rapier bare and put it '''home'''.'' —Shak.
# {{UK|soccer}} Into the [[goal]].
#* '''2004''', [http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/3496755.stm Tottenham 4-4 Leicester], [[w:BBC Sport|BBC Sport]]: February,
#*: Walker was penalised for a picking up a Gerry Taggart backpass and from the resulting free-kick, Keane fired '''home''' after Johnnie Jackson's initial effort was blocked.

====Usage notes====
* {{term|home|Home}} is often used in the formation of compound words, many of which need no special definition; as, home-brewed, home-built, home-grown, etc.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adverb "home"}}
* [[bring home]]
* [[come home]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[haul home the sheets of a sail]]
* [[till the cows come home]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[turn home]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|at home (''adverb'')}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|doma}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|hjemme}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|thuis}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kotona}}
* French: {{t+|fr|à la maison}}
* German: {{t+|de|daheim}}, {{t+|de|zu Hause}}, {{t+|de|zuhause}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|otthon}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|sa bhaile|xs=Irish}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|집|sc=Kore}},  {{t|ko|집으로|sc=Kore}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|дома|tr=dóma|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hjemme}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|acasă}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дома|tr=dóma|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dhachaigh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|doma}}
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|evde}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|homewards ''(adverb)''}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|domů}}
* Danish: [[hjem]], [[hjemad]]
* Dutch: [[naar huis]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kotiin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|à la maison}}
* German: {{t-|de|nach Hause}}, {{t+|de|nachhause}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|abhaile|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hjem}},{{t|no|hjemover}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|домой|tr=domój|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|hame|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|dhachaigh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|domov}}
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|eve}}, {{t-|tr|eve doğru}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
{{rel-top|Terms related to "home"}}
* [[homing]]
* [[homeless]]
* [[homely]]
* [[homeowner]]
* [[homestead]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[homey]], [[homy]]
* [[home away from home]]
* [[home free]]
* [[independent home]]
* [[parental home]]
* [[hometown]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|homo|homō|human being|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[man]]
# [[husband]]

====Synonyms====
{{rel-top|husband}}
* el {{l|ca|cònjuge}}
* {{l|ca|espòs}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|ca|marit}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
{{rel-top|woman}}
* {{l|ca|dona}}
{{rel-mid}}
{{rel-bottom}}
{{rel-top|wife}}
* la {{l|ca|cònjuge}}
* {{l|ca|costella}} {{qualifier|figurative}}
* {{l|ca|dona}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|ca|esposa}}
* {{l|ca|muller}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Hypernyms====
{{rel-top|spouse}}
* el {{l|ca|cònjuge}}
{{rel-mid}}
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:ca:Marriage]]
[[Category:ca:People]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Etymology===
From {{term|homo|lang=eo}}.

===Adverb===
{{infl|eo|adverb}}

# [[humanly]]

----

==Finnish==
{{Finnish index|h|o}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈho̞me̞ˣ]|lang=fi}}, {{X-SAMPA|["home(?)]}}
* {{hyphenation|ho|me}}
* {{rhymes|e|lang=fi}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|lang=fi}}
{{infl|fi|noun}}

# [[mildew]], [[mould]]

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-hame|hom}}

[[Category:fi:Botany]]

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|homo}}

===Noun===
{{gl-noun|m}}

# [[human]]
# [[man]]
# [[spouse]]

===Interjection===
{{infl|gl|interjection}}

# [[man]]! {{non gloss definition|Expresses surprise.}}

===See also===
* [[persoa]]

[[Category:gl:People]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}} {{term|home|lang=en}}

===Noun===
'''home''' {{f|inv}}

# [[#English|home]] (initial position of various computing objects)

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[af:home]]
[[ang:home]]
[[ar:home]]
[[az:home]]
[[ca:home]]
[[de:home]]
[[et:home]]
[[el:home]]
[[es:home]]
[[fa:home]]
[[fr:home]]
[[gl:home]]
[[ko:home]]
[[hy:home]]
[[io:home]]
[[it:home]]
[[kn:home]]
[[kk:home]]
[[sw:home]]
[[ku:home]]
[[lo:home]]
[[lt:home]]
[[hu:home]]
[[nl:home]]
[[ja:home]]
[[no:home]]
[[oc:home]]
[[pl:home]]
[[pt:home]]
[[ru:home]]
[[simple:home]]
[[fi:home]]
[[sv:home]]
[[ta:home]]
[[te:home]]
[[th:home]]
[[tr:home]]
[[vi:home]]
[[zh:home]]