{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Hongkong|Hong-Kong|Hồng Kông}}
How to Tie a Tie - Instructions How to Tie a Tie the Four-In-Hand Knot

 

We've been there before... "Need to learn How to Tie a Tie and only have 5 minutes!" We franticly look for someone who can give us instructions. Or maybe you had someone tie a tie for you and it's never been un-tied, you just leave it in the closet as is. This, as I have learned is an easy way to damage your tie. Friend you have come to the right place. Learning Instructions on How to Tie a Tie is not difficult. When you have learned how to tie a tie you will have great satisfaction in knowing that you will no longer rely on the instructions of someone else. 

Let's start with instructions how to tie a tie - the four-in-hand knot. 
Follow the images as if you were looking into a mirror at your reflection. 


 Start with the wide end on your right. Extend it about 12" below the narrow end. Cross the wide end over the narrow, and back underneath. Bring the wide end around passing it across the front of the narrow. Pass the wide end up through the loop. Hold the knot loosely and pass the wide end down through the loop in front. Hold the narrow end of the tie and slide the knot up snug.

==Bosnian==

===Proper noun===
'''Hong Kong''' ''m s''

# Hong Kong

====See also====
* [[Hongkong#Bosnian|Hongkong]]

[[Category:bs:Cities]]

----

==Croatian==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|hr|proper noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|Hong Kong]]

[[Category:hr:Cities]]

----

==Finnish==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|fi|proper noun}}

# {{alternative spelling of|Hongkong}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-see|Hongkong}}

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
'''Hong Kong''' ''f''

# Hong Kong

====See also====
* [[Hongkong#French|Hongkong]]

[[Category:fr:Cities]]

----

==Serbian==

===Proper noun===
'''Hong Kong''' ''m s''

# Hong Kong

====See also====
* [[Хонг Конг#Serbian|Хонг Конг]]
* [[Hongkong#Serbian|Hongkong]]

[[Category:sr:Cities]]

[[el:Hong Kong]]
[[es:Hong Kong]]
[[fr:Hong Kong]]
[[ko:Hong Kong]]
[[ku:Hong Kong]]
[[hu:Hong Kong]]
[[pt:Hong Kong]]
[[ru:Hong Kong]]
[[fi:Hong Kong]]
[[tr:Hong Kong]]