{{also|Hosen}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|hosen}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|hosan||hosen, leggings, trousers}}, plural of {{m|ang|hosa||hose, legging, stocking}}. Reinforced by {{etyl|de|en}} {{m|de|Hosen||trousers, pants}}.

===Noun===
{{head|en|plural}}

# {{context|poetic|historical|archaic|lang=en}} {{plural of|hose|lang=en}} {{qualifier|the old-fashioned garment; [[stockings]]}}
#* Bible, Daniel iii. 21
#*: These men were bound in their coats, their '''hosen''', and their hats, and their other garments.
#*'''1877''', Golden Hours:
#*: And I hoped that in youth the good path may be chosen By each little man who may chance wear these '''hosen'''.
#*'''1979''', George G. Coulton, ''Five centuries of religion: The last days of medieval monachism'':
#*: It has crept up the leg and become hose, and it is made no longer of leather but of cloth. Gradually these '''hosen''' became longer and longer, until they joined at the top into one garment, which betrayed its dual origin by keeping the plural [...]
#*'''2009''', Jeffrey L. Forgeng, ''Daily Life in Elizabethan England'':
#*: Francis the Schoolboy Margaret, give me my '''hosen'''; dispatch I pray you. 
#*'''2014''', Geoffrey Chaucer, ''The Canterbury Tales and Other Poems'':
#*: [...] and the shape of the horrible swollen members, that seem like to the malady of hernia, in the wrapping of their '''hosen''', and eke the buttocks of them, [...]
# Coverings for the legs; [[trousers]]; [[pants]].
#*'''1857''', The Eclectic Magazine of Foreign Literature, Science, and Art:
#*: At the court of the Kaiser I born was and bred ; and there my '''hosen''' and jerkin were made ; […]
#*'''1862''', Gustav Freytag, ''Pictures of German Life in the XVth,XVIth, and XVIIth Centuries'':
#*: Then I searched the pocket of my '''hosen''' and found a little knife, such as could be closed, which they had not chosen to take, [...]
#*'''1990''', Ellen J. Gehret, ''Rural Pennsylvania Clothing'':
#*: They differed in the length of the leg but were generally similar in the cut at the top. ... By 1770, they bought new '''hosen'''.
#*'''2004''', Margaret Frazer, ''The Hunter's Tale'':
#*: And the doublet is long enough it hid most of the blood-spattered part of my '''hosen''' and they were dark enough the blood didn't much show after I'd rubbed some dirt over them.
#*'''2005''', Adam McCune, Keith McCune, ''The Rats of Hamelin'':
#*: The invisible cord ... I followed him down a narrow path with a rippling lake of grain on each side, wheat stalks brushing my '''hosen'''.
#*'''2014''', Karen Chance, ''Masks'':
#*: These '''hosen''' have saggy butt.” “Don't touch yourself,” Paulo hissed, slapping Jerome's hand away. “I wasn't touching myself, I was trying to pull up these damned—” “Don't touch your clothing, either! Don't touch anything!”

===Anagrams===
* [[hones#English|hones]]
* [[shone#English|shone]]

[[Category:English plurals ending in "-en"]]

[[ar:hosen]]
[[fr:hosen]]
[[ku:hosen]]
[[my:hosen]]
[[pt:hosen]]
[[fi:hosen]]