{{also|höst}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=host}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/həʊst/}}, {{SAMPA|/h@Ust/}}
*: {{rhymes|əʊst}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/hoʊst/}}, {{SAMPA|/hoUst/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-host.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|oʊst}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|hoste|lang=fro}} (French: {{term|hôte|lang=fr}}), from Middle {{etyl|la}} {{term|hospitem|lang=la}}, accusative of {{term|hospes|lang=la||a host, also a sourjourner, visitor, gueat; hence, a foreigner, a stranger}}, probably contr. of orig. *{{term|hostipes||lit. 'guest-master', one who receives guests or strangers}} < {{term|hostis||a stranger}} + {{term|-pes}}. Used in English since 13th Century.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
{{rfc|Is the computer [[server]] sense correct?  See [[Talk:host]]}}

# A person who allows a [[guest]], particularly into the host’s home.
#: ''A good '''host''' is always considerate of the guest’s needs.''
# A person or organization responsible for [[run]]ning an [[event]].
#: ''Our company is '''host''' of the annual conference this year.''
# A [[moderator]] or [[master of ceremonies]] for a [[performance]].
#: ''The '''host''' was terrible, but the acts themselves were good.''
# {{computing|internet|Unix}} Any computer attached to a [[network]].
# {{computing|networking}} A computer or software component that provides [[service]]s.
#: ''This machine is the '''host''' of the name server.''
# {{biology}} A [[cell]] or [[organism]] which [[harbor]]s another organism or biological entity, usually a [[parasite]].
#: ''Viruses depend on the '''host''' that they infect in order to be able to reproduce''
# {{context|evolutionism|genetics}} An organism bearing certain [[genetic]] material.
#: ''The so-called junk DNA provides no benefit to its '''host'''.''

=====Related terms=====
* [[hostess]]
* [[hostel]]
* [[hotel]]
* [[hostname]]
* [[hospitable]]
* [[hospital]]
* [[hospitality]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|person who allows a guest}}
* Bosnian: [[domaćin]] {{m}}, [[domaćinica]] {{f}}, [[gazda]] {{m}}, [[gazdarica]] {{f}}
* Czech: [[hostitel]] {{m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vært}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gastheer|m}}, {{t|nl|gastvrouw|f}}, {{t|nl|gastgever|m}}
* French: [[hôte]]
* German: [[Gastgeber]] {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|házigazda}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[gestgjafi]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[anfitrião]]
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[домаћин]] {{m}}, [[домаћиница]] {{f}}, [[газда]] {{m}}, [[газдарица]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[domaćin]] {{m}}, [[domaćinica]] {{f}}, [[gazda]] {{m}}, [[gazdarica]] {{f}}
* Slovene: [[gostitelj]] {{m}}, [[gostiteljica]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[värd]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person or organisation responsible for running an event}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vært}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|organisator|m}}, {{t|nl|gastgever|m}}
* French: [[organisateur]] {{m}}
* German: [[Veranstalter]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[organizador]], [[realizador]]
* Slovene: [[gostitelj]] {{m}}, [[gostiteljica]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[värd]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|moderator}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|moderator|m}}, {{t|nl|gastheer|m}}, {{t|nl|gastvrouw|f}}, {{t|nl|gastgever|m}}
* Portuguese: [[mediador]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[voditelj]] {{m}}, [[voditeljica]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: computer attached to a network}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|host|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: computer or software component that provides services}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|host|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|biology: cell or organism which harbors another organism}}
* Czech: [[hostitel]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|gastheer|m}}
* Icelandic: [[hýsill]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[hospedeiro]]
* Slovene: [[gostitelj]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[värd]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|genetics: organism bearing certain genetic material}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|drager|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To perform the role of a host.
#: Our company will '''host''' the annual conference this year.
#: I was terrible at '''hosting''' that show.
#: I’ll be '''hosting''' tonight.  I hope I’m not terrible.
#: Kremvax '''hosts''' a variety of services.
# {{context|computing|Internet}} To run [[software]] made available to a [[remote]] user or [[process]].
#* '''1987''' May 7, Selden E. Ball, Jr., ''Re:  Ethernet Terminal Concentrators'', <tt>comp.protocols.tcp-ip</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: CMU/TEK TCP/IP software uses an excessive amount of cpu resources for terminal support both outbound, when accessing another system, and inbound, when the local system is '''hosting''' a session.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|perform the role of a host}}
* Czech: [[hostit]]
* Dutch: {{t|nl|ontvangen}}, {{t|nl|onderbrengen}}, {{t|nl|modereren}} {{i|show}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|isännöidä}}, {{t|fi|toimia}} {{t|fi|isäntä|alt=isäntänä}}, {{t|fi|juontaa}} {{i|show}}
* French: [[recevoir]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[hýsa]]
* Slovene: [[gostiti]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: run software for a remote user or process}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|hosten}}
* French: [[héberger]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[hýsa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[guest]]
* [[event]]
* [[master of ceremonies]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|host|lang=fro}}, from Middle {{etyl|la}} {{term|hostis||foreign enemy|lang=la}} (as opposed to {{term|inimicus||personal enemy|lang=la}}), cognate with etymology 1.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[multitude]] of people [[array]]ed as an [[army]]; used also in religious senses, as: ''Heavenly host (of angels)''
#* '''2001''', Carlos Parada, ''Hesione 2'', [http://homepage.mac.com/cparada/GML/Hesione2.html Greek Mythology Link]
#*: the invading '''host''' that had sailed from Hellas in more than one thousand ships was of an unprecedented size.
# A large number of items; a large [[inventory]].
#: A '''host''' of parts for my Model A!

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|multitude of people arrayed as an army}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|heerschaar|c}} {{i|archaic}}, {{t|nl|leger|n}}, {{t|nl|troep|m}} {{i|usually plural}}
* French: [[armée]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Heer]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|large number of items}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|berg|m}}, {{t|nl|troep|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|enm}} also {{term|oist|lang=enm}}, {{term|ost|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|fro}} {{term|hoiste|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|hostia||sacrificial victim|lang=la}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Catholicism}} The [[consecrated]] [[bread]] or [[wafer]] of the [[Eucharist]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|consecrated bread}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|hostie|m}}
* French: [[hostie]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Hostie]] {{f}}
* Icelandic: [[kynnir]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[anfitrión]], [[propietario]] {{m}}; [[presentador]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|hostis|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
'''host'''

# [[army]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Czech==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Common Slavic|gost}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-host.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[guest]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology 1===
From {{term|hossen|lang=nl}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/hɔst/|lang=nl}}

====Verb====
'''host'''

# {{nth s ind sim pres of|hossen|nth=2|L=Dutch}}
# {{archaic}} {{nth form s ind sim pres of|hossen|nth=2|L=Dutch}}
# {{nth s ind sim pres of|hossen|nth=3|L=Dutch}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|en|nl}}.

====Pronunciation====
Like English, mostly {{IPA|/hoʊst/|lang=nl}}, {{SAMPA|/hoUst/}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun2|m|s|je}}

# {{computing|lang=nl}} [[host#English|host]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[hosten]]

[[Category:Dutch verb forms]]

----

==Norwegian==

{{rfp|lang=Norwegian}}

===Etymology 1===
Related to {{term|hoste||to cough|lang=no}}.

====Noun====
{{no-noun-m1}}<br>
{{no-noun-n1}}

# A single [[cough]] [[expulsion]].

====Verb====
'''host'''

# ''Imperative'' of [[hoste#Norwegian|hoste]].

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|en|no}}.

====Noun====
{{no-noun-m1}}

# {{computing|lang=no}} [[host#English|host]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[vertsmaskin]]

[[Category:Norwegian verb forms]]

[[de:host]]
[[el:host]]
[[fr:host]]
[[io:host]]
[[id:host]]
[[it:host]]
[[ku:host]]
[[lt:host]]
[[hu:host]]
[[ja:host]]
[[pl:host]]
[[ru:host]]
[[simple:host]]
[[fi:host]]
[[sv:host]]
[[ta:host]]
[[te:host]]
[[vi:host]]
[[tr:host]]
[[zh:host]]