==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{compound|how|ever|lang=-}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/hɑʊˈɛvə/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/haU"Ev@/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|houĕvʹər}}, {{IPA|/haʊˈɛvɚ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/haU'Ev@`/}}
* {{a|NY}} {{IPA|/hɑwɛvə/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/hAwEv@/}}
* {{audio|en-us-however.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛvə(r)}}
* {{hyphenation|how|ev|er}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{context|conjunctive}} [[nevertheless|Nevertheless]], [[nonetheless]], [[even so]], [[that said]], [[in spite of]] this.
#: ''He told me not to do it; '''however''', I did it.''
# {{context|degree}} To whatever degree.
#: '''''However''' clear you think you've been, many questions will remain.''
# {{chiefly|British|as an intensified form in interrogatives}} In what way; [[how]].
#: '''''However''' did you do that?''

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|nevertheless}} Strunk and White’s ''{{w|The Elements of Style}}'' argues that the adverb ''however'', in its sense of {{term|nevertheless|lang=en}} should be avoided at the beginning of a sentence.

====Synonyms====
{{checksyns}}
* [[after all]]
* [[but]]
* [[nevertheless]]
* [[nonetheless]]
* [[notwithstanding]]
* [[though]]
* [[that said]]
* [[still and all]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-tsort|duplicate language: Old French}}
{{trans-top|nevertheless}}
* Old French: {{tø|fro|nepurquant}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|لكن|tr=laakin(na)}}, {{t-|ar|ولكن|tr=wa-laakin(na)}}
* Asturian: {{t-|ast|sin embargu}}
* Basque: {{t-|eu|haatik}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|аднак|tr=adnak|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|як бы там ні было|tr=jak by tam ni było|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|въпреки това|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|但是|tr=dànshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|可是|tr=kěshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不過|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不过|tr=búguò|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|卻|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|却|tr=què|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nicméně}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|daarentegen}}, {{t+|nl|echter}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kontraŭe}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuitenkin}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cependant}}, {{t+|fr|pourtant}}, {{t+|fr|néanmoins}}, {{t+|fr|toutefois}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|მიუხედავად ამისა|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|jedoch}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|אף על פי כן|sc=Hebr}}, {{t-|he|למרות זאת|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mégis}}, {{t+|hu|viszont}}, {{t+|hu|azonban}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|però}}, {{t+|it|nonostante}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|しかし|tr=shikashi}}, {{t+|ja|が|tr=ga}}, {{t-|ja|でも|tr=demo}}, {{t-|ja|けれども|tr=keredomo}}, {{t-|ja|けれど|tr=keredo}}, {{t-|ja|けども|tr=kedomo}}, {{t-|ja|けど|tr=kedo}}
* Kurdish: {{t-|ku|her wiha|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t+|ku|dîsa jî|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t+|ku|lê|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|tandem}}
* Lojban: {{t+|jbo|ku'i}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|walau bagaimana}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|men}}, {{t+|no|imidlertid}}, {{t-|no|ikke desto mindre}}
* Old French: {{tø|fro|nepourquant}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|اما|tr=ammâ|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t-|fa|با این حال|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|jednakże}}, {{t+|pl|jednak}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|no entanto}}, {{t+|pt|entretanto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|однако|tr=odnáko|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scots: {{tø|sco|houaniver}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|ge-tà}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|usprkos tome}}, {{t-|sh|međutim}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|sin embargo}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|bununla birlikte}}, {{t+|tr|ancak}}
* Zazaki: {{tø|zza|labelê}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to what degree}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|akármennyire}}, {{t+|hu|bármennyire}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|uansett hvor/hvor mye}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intensifier: in what way}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|hvordan i all verden}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jakkolwiek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|por mais que}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|por más que}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: {{t|id|tapi}}, {{t|id|tetapi}}, {{t|id|namun}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-con}}

# In [[whatever]] manner.
#: ''Do it '''however''' you want.''
# To whatever extent.
#: '''''However''' far he may get, there'll be many that get further.''
#: '''''However''' much you prepare for the exam, there will still be a few questions on which you won't be sure of the answer.''
# {{proscribed}} [[although|Although]], [[though]], [[but]], [[yet]].

====Usage notes====
* <p style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0">{{sense|although}} The use of ''however'' as a conjunction meaning "[[but]]" is identical to its use as a clause-initial adverb meaning "[[nevertheless]]", except in punctuation (when written) and in prosody (when spoken). Hence, the following proscribed sentence:</p><blockquote style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0"><p style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0">(proscribed) ''He told me not to do it, '''however''' I did it.''</p></blockquote><p style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0">is equivalent to the following accepted one:</p><blockquote style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0"><p style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0">(accepted) ''He told me not to do it; '''however''', I did it.''</p></blockquote><p style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0">In particular, when used as a conjunction in this sense, ''however'' always appears between the clauses it connects; it does not introduce a true subordinate clause that can be moved to the start of an independent clause, because a conjunctive adverb cannot do that.</p>

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in whatever manner}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|jakkoli}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|eender hoe}}
* Finnish: {{t-SOP|fi|[[miten]] [[tahansa]]}}
* French: {{t-|fr|de quelque manière que ce soit}}, {{t-|fr|quelle que soit ma/ta/sa/notre/votre/leur manière}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|wie auch immer}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|på den måten}}, {{t-|no|på hvilken måte}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|de qualquer modo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hur som helst}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|ye}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to whatever extent}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|uansett hvor}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|father|nor|moment|227|however|enough|quite|brought}}

===Anagrams===
* [[whoever]]

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913|however}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|however}}
* "[http://encarta.msn.com/dictionary_/however.html however]" in Encarta® World English Dictionary [North American Edition] © & (P)2007 Microsoft Corporation.
* "[http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=38295&dict=CALD however (degree)]" in Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary © Cambridge University Press 2007.
* "[http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=38298&dict=CALD however (despite)]" in Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary © Cambridge University Press 2007.
* "[http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=38296&dict=CALD however (way)]" in Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary © Cambridge University Press 2007.
* "[http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/however?view=uk however]" in ''Compact Oxford English Dictionary'', © Oxford University Press, 2007.
* ''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed., 1989.
* ''Random House Webster's Unabridged Electronic Dictionary'', 1987-1996.

[[Category:English conjunctive adverbs]]
[[Category:English degree adverbs]]
[[Category:English intensifiers]]

[[az:however]]
[[zh-min-nan:however]]
[[cs:however]]
[[de:however]]
[[et:however]]
[[el:however]]
[[es:however]]
[[fr:however]]
[[ko:however]]
[[io:however]]
[[it:however]]
[[kn:however]]
[[kk:however]]
[[ku:however]]
[[lt:however]]
[[li:however]]
[[hu:however]]
[[mg:however]]
[[ml:however]]
[[my:however]]
[[nl:however]]
[[ja:however]]
[[no:however]]
[[pl:however]]
[[pt:however]]
[[sm:however]]
[[simple:however]]
[[fi:however]]
[[sv:however]]
[[ta:however]]
[[te:however]]
[[tr:however]]
[[vi:however]]
[[zh:however]]