==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hʌ̃/}}
* {{audio|en-us-huh.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# Word expressing [[doubt]] or [[confusion]].
#: '''''Huh?''' Why is my poop green?''
# Word used to [[reinforce]] a [[question]].
#: ''Are you coming?  '''Huh'''?''
# Word used to express [[amusement]] or subtle [[surprise]].
#: '''''Huh!'''  I didn't say that! That's what she said!''
# {{slang}} (Shortening of the slang "I know, huh." and is not pronounced "haw") Word used solely as a response, in order to express either complete agreement with or to belittle the issuer of a statement or infrequently a question. The intonation is changed to distinguish between the two meanings. When used in agreement, the intonation is friendly and non-confrontational.
#: ''Statement: PPPPoooooooooooooooooOOOOOOOOPp. Response: '''Huh!'''
#: ''or
#: ''Statement: "I love murder" Response: '''Huh!'''
# Informally, used to indicate that one did not hear what was said.
#: '''''Huh'''?  Could you get in there? ugugughhh..oh yah! that feels good.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expressing doubt or confusion}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|hè}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|häh}}, {{t+|fi|höh}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hein}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|häh}}
* Portuguese: [[ué]],  {{t|pt|como}},  {{t|pt|hã}}
* Russian: [[а]], [[да]] (with special intonation)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reinforce a question}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|hè}},  {{t+|nl|nou}}
* Finnish: [[täh]], [[mitä]]
* Portuguese: [[hem]], [[hã]],  {{t|pt|hein}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|a}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|а}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to express amusement or subtle surprise}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|häh}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|puxa}}, {{t-|pt|eta}}, {{t-|pt|eita}}, {{t+|pt|caramba}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[да]], [[да]] [[ну]] ''(in questions)'', [[ха]] ''(in statements)''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|"I know, huh" what huh}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|joo}}
* Portuguese: [[dã]], [[não brinca]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[да]], [[угу]] ''(first meaning)'', [[ага]] ''(both meanings)''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to indicate that one didn't hear}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|hè}},  {{t+|nl|wat}}
* Finnish: [[häh]], [[täh]]
* French: {{t+|fr|hein}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[hã]], [[hem]],  {{t|pt|como}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|эй}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Cherokee}}: [[hv]] (1,3)
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[hả]] (2), [[a|a!]] (3)
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English palindromes]]

[[el:huh]]
[[es:huh]]
[[fr:huh]]
[[ko:huh]]
[[io:huh]]
[[vi:huh]]
[[zh:huh]]