==English==
{{was wotd|2006|May|5}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|hyperbolē|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|ὑπερβολή||excess, exaggeration|tr=huperbolē|lang=grc}}, from {{term|ὑπέρ||above|tr=huper|lang=grc}} + {{term|βάλλω||I throw|tr=ballō|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/haɪˈpɜːbəli/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-hyperbole.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* Homophones: [[hyperbolae]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} Extreme [[exaggeration]] or overstatement; especially as a [[literary]] or rhetorical device.
# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} [[deliberate|Deliberate]] exaggeration.
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} An [[instance]] or [[example]] of this technique.
# {{context|countable|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[hyperbola]].

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1600s=1602|
1800s=1837 1841 1843|
1900s=1910|
2000s=2001}}
* '''1602''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:Troilus and Cressida|Troilus and Cressida]] i 3''
*: ...and when he speaks<br/>'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquar'd,<br/>Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd,<br/>Would seem '''hyperboles'''.
* '''1837''' — [[w:Nathaniel Hawthorne|Nathaniel Hawthorne]], ''[[s:Legends of the Province House|Legends of the Province House]]''
*: The great staircase, however, may be termed, without much '''hyperbole''', a feature of grandeur and magnificence.
* '''1841''' — [[w:James Fenimore Cooper|James Fenimore Cooper]], ''[[s:The Deerslayer|The Deerslayer]]'', ch. 28
*: "Nay - nay - good Sumach," interrupted Deerslayer, whose love of truth was too indomitable to listen to such '''hyperbole''' with patience.
* '''1843''' — [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''[[s:The Gates of Somnauth|The Gates of Somnauth]]''
*: The honourable gentleman forces us to hear a good deal of this detestable rhetoric; and then he asks why, if the secretaries of the Nizam and the King of Oude use all these tropes and '''hyperboles''', Lord Ellenborough should not indulge in the same sort of eloquence?
* '''c.1910''' — [[w:Theodore Roosevelt|Theodore Roosevelt]], ''[[s:Productive Scholarship|Productive Scholarship]]''
*: Of course the hymn has come to us from somewhere else, but I do not know from where; and the average native of our village firmly believes that it is indigenous to our own soil—which it can not be, unless it deals in '''hyperbole''', for the nearest approach to a river in our neighborhood is the village pond.
* '''2001''' - Tom Bentley, Daniel Stedman Jones, ''The Moral Universe''
*: The perennial problem, especially for the BBC, has been to reconcile the '''hyperbole'''-driven agenda of newspapers with the requirement of balance, which is crucial to the public service remit.

====Synonyms====
* [[overstatement]]
* [[exaggeration]]

====Antonyms====
* [[meiosis]]
* [[understatement]]

====Derived terms====
* [[hyperbolic]]

====Related terms====
* [[hyperbola]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rhetorical device}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|hipèrbole|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|誇飾|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|nadsázka|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hyperbel|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hyperbool}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|hiperbolo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hyperbola}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hyperbole|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hyperbel|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπερβολή|f|tr=ypervolí}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|urtheilgean|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|iperbole|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|誇張|tr=Kochō|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t|la|hyperbole|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|hyperbol|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|hyperbol|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|hiperbola|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|hipérbole|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гипербола|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=gipérbola}}, {{t+|ru|преувеличение|n|sc=Cyrl|tr=preuveličénije}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hipérbole|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hyperbol|c}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|gormodiaith|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[adynaton]]

[[Category:en:Figures of speech]]
[[Category:en:Rhetoric]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|hyperbole|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|grc|fr}} {{term|ὑπερβολή||excess, exaggeration|tr=huperbolē|lang=grc}}, from {{term|ὑπέ||above|tr=huper|lang=grc}} + {{term|βάλλω||I throw|tr=ballō|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/i.pɛʁ.bɔl/|lang=fr}}
* {{homophones|hyperboles|lang=fr}}
* {{hyphenation|hy|per|bole|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{context|rhetoric|lang=fr}} [[hyperbole#English|hyperbole]]
# {{context|geometry|lang=fr}} [[hyperbola]]

----

==Latin==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|grc|la}} {{term|ὑπερβολή||excess, exaggeration|tr=huperbolē|lang=grc}}, from {{term|ὑπέ||above|tr=huper|lang=grc}} + {{term|βάλλω||I throw|tr=ballō|lang=grc}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/hʏˈpɛːrbɔleː/|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{la-noun|hyperbolē|hyperboles#Latin|hyperbolēs|f|first}}

# [[exaggeration]]; [[#English|hyperbole]]
# {{inflection of|hyperbolē||abl|s|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|hyperbolē||voc|s|lang=la}}

====Inflection====
{{la-decl-1st-Greek|hyperbol}}

[[Category:Latin noun forms]]

[[et:hyperbole]]
[[el:hyperbole]]
[[eo:hyperbole]]
[[fr:hyperbole]]
[[gl:hyperbole]]
[[ko:hyperbole]]
[[hy:hyperbole]]
[[io:hyperbole]]
[[id:hyperbole]]
[[kn:hyperbole]]
[[hu:hyperbole]]
[[mg:hyperbole]]
[[ml:hyperbole]]
[[my:hyperbole]]
[[no:hyperbole]]
[[pl:hyperbole]]
[[pt:hyperbole]]
[[ru:hyperbole]]
[[simple:hyperbole]]
[[fi:hyperbole]]
[[sv:hyperbole]]
[[ta:hyperbole]]
[[te:hyperbole]]
[[tr:hyperbole]]
[[vi:hyperbole]]
[[zh:hyperbole]]