{{also|靑}}<!-- may be replaced by zh-forms -->
==Translingual==
{{stroke order|strokes=8}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[靑]]

===Etymology===
{{Han compound|生|t1=growth of plants|丹|t2=cinnabar|ls=ic}} – [[生]] represents growing plants. Cinnabar was used for dying items red, implying color which red stands as the most representative form of. Giving the meaning "color of growing plants", hence green. 

Top component is cognate to {{term|生||grass|sc=Hani}}, but bottom component now resembles the unrelated {{term|月||moon|sc=Hani}}.

===Han character===
{{Han char|rn=174|rad=靑|as=00|sn=8|four=5022<sub>7</sub>|canj=手一月 (QMB)}}

# [[green]], [[blue]], [[black]], [[azure]]
# [[young]]
# [[clear]]

====Descendants====
* [[Index:Chinese radical/靑]]
* [[清]] ([[凊]]), [[菁]], [[請]] ([[请]]), [[晴]], [[蜻]], [[精]], [[倩]], [[崝]], [[𩇕]], [[猜]], [[靖]], [[情]], [[婧]], [[綪]]

====See also====
* [[責]] [[素]]

====References====
* {{Han ref|kx=1381.191|dkj=42564|dj=1893.010|hdz=64046.010|uh=9752|ud=38738}}

----

==Cantonese==
For general use see Mandarin section. In Cantonese the use of "青" to mean black is still used in circumstances were to use "黑" would be inauspicious as it is a homophone of "乞"  or beggar, so for example "黑衣" used to describe clothing would be a homophone of both beggar and a beggar's garment.
===Hanzi===
{{yue-hanzi|jyut=[[ceng1]], [[cing1]]|y=cheng1, ching1}}

# {{defn|lang=yue|sort=靑00}}

----

==Hakka==

===Hanzi===
{{hak-hanzi|poj=tshiang|gd=ts'iang<sup>1</sup>; tsiang<sup>1</sup> [Dongguan]|hpy=qiang1, qiang4}}

# {{defn|lang=hak|sort=靑00}}

====References====
*[http://www.chinalanguage.com/dictionaries/?mode=view&view=chardict&query=%E9%9D%92 CCDICT (Chineselanguage.org)]
*[http://minhakka.ling.sinica.edu.tw/bkg/hakyin/search.php?DETAIL=1&LIMIT=id=48928&dbname=su_tian_1&graph=2 Academia Sinica - Hakka-English Dictionary]
*Lau, Chun-fat. ''Hakka Pinyin Dictionary'' (Chinese). [[Hong Kong]]: [[w:Chinese University of Hong Kong|The Chinese University Press]], 1997 <small>(Chinese IME supplement)</small> ISBN 962-201-750-9.

----

==Japanese==

===Etymology 1===
awo > ao. Possibly sawo > awo > ao.

====Pronunciation====
* {{ja-Common Accent}}: {{ja-accent-common|atamadaka|あ|お}}, {{IPA|/aꜜ.o/|[ä˦.o̞˨]|lang=ja}}
* {{audio|Ja-ao-blue.ogg|あお}}

====Noun====
{{ja-noun|k|hira=あお|hhira=あを|rom=ao}}

# [[blue]]
# the black, bluish color of a horse's hair; also, such a horse
#* {{RQ:Nippo Jisho|39}}
#*: '''Auo'''. アヲ (青) 馬の毛色で, 全体に黒くて青みがあり, 両耳の内側に多少白いところのあるもの. この部分の毛も他の部分と同じようにすっかり黒い時には, Curo(黒)と呼ばれる.
# [[green]] ([[traffic-light]] green is referred to as ''ao'', as are plant leaves.)

=====Related terms=====
* [[青い]](''aoi'')

===Etymology 2===
sawo > sao. s- is often taken as a prefix to avoid vowel clusters, but it was probably the older form. Seen also in [[雨#Japanese|same]] and [[稲#Japanese|shine]].

====Noun====
{{ja-noun|k|hira=さお|hhira=さを|rom=sao}}

# blue

=====Derived terms=====
* [[真青]] (masao)
* [[真っ青]] (massao)

===Etymology 3===

====Noun====
{{ja-noun|k|hira=しい|rom=shii}}

# a [[beast]] that looks like a weasel, and is said to have lived in present Fukuoka and Yamaguchi
# a [[beast]] that looks like a wolf, and is said to have appeared in Mt. Yoshino

====Kanji====
{{ja-kanji|grade=1|rs=青00}}

=====Readings=====
* {{ja-readings|on=[[せい]] (''[[sei]]''), [[しょう]] (''[[shō]]'')|kun=[[あお]] (''[[ao]]''), [[あおい]] ([[青い]], ''[[aoi]]'')}}

=====Compounds=====
{{top2}}
* [[青海原]]
* [[青馬]]
* [[青黴]]
* [[青桐]]
* [[青草]]
* [[青臭い]]
* [[青写真]]
* [[青筋]]
* [[青空]]
* [[青田]]
* [[青大将]]
* [[青菜に塩]]
* [[青二才]]
* [[青虫]]
{{mid2}}
* [[青物]]
* [[青雲の志]]
* [[青眼]]
* [[青酸]]
* [[青山]]
* [[青磁]]
* [[青春]]
* [[青天]]
* [[青天の霹靂]]
* [[青天白日]]
* [[青銅]]
* [[青年]]
* [[青嵐]]
* [[青龍刀]]
* {{term|刺青|tr=いれずみ, irezumi|lang=ja}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Nippo Jisho}}

[[Category:1000 Japanese basic words|あお]]
[[Category:Japanese nouns|あお]]
[[Category:ja:Colors|あお]]

----

==Korean==

===Hanja===
{{ko-hanja|hangeul=청|eumhun=푸를|rv=cheong|mr=ch'ŏng|y=cheng}}

# [[blue]]; [[green]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Hanzi===
{{cmn-hanzi|pin=[[qīng]] ([[qing1]])|wg=ch'ing<sup>1</sup>}}

# [[green]]; if about grass, plants, mountain etc.
# [[blue]]; if about the sky, a stone etc.
# [[black]]; if about hair, cloth etc.
# [[young]].

====Usage notes====
The meaning for blue and black of "青" is more commonly used in classical Chinese, while in modern Chinese, the meaning for green is more common, for example, "青山綠水/青山緑水" (hill and water green in colour), "青蘋果/青苹果" (green apple). However, there are still some expressions for the meaning of blue, e.g. "青天" (blue sky), "[[青出於藍]]/青出于蓝" (literal meaning: blue colour extracts from a plant of blue dye. Extended meaning and use: for saying someone performed better than his/her teacher).

====Compounds====
{{top2}}
* [[青白]]
* [[青菜]]
* [[青草]]
* [[青出于蓝]]
* [[青春]]
* [[青春痘]]
* [[青春期]]
* [[青瓷]]
* [[青葱]]
* [[青翠]]
* [[青灯]]
* [[青豆]]
* [[青肥]]
* [[青梗菜]]
* [[青光眼]]
* [[青红皂白]]
* [[青花瓷]]
* [[青黄不接]]
* [[青灰]]
* [[青椒]]
* [[青筋]]
* [[青筋暴露]]
* [[青稞]]
* [[青空]]
* [[青睐]]
* [[青莲色]]
* [[青龙]]
* [[青绿]]
* [[青梅]]
{{mid2}}
* [[青梅竹马]]
* [[青霉素]]
* [[青面獠牙]]
* [[青苗]]
* [[青年]]
* [[青年节]]
* [[青鸟]]
* [[青皮]]
* [[青纱帐]]
* [[青山绿水]]
* [[青少年]]
* [[青史]]
* [[青丝]]
* [[青饲料]]
* [[青蒜]]
* [[青苔]] (qīngtái)
* [[清堂瓦舍]]
* [[青天]]
* [[青天白日]]
* [[青天霹雳]]
* [[青田石]]
* [[青铜]]
* [[青铜器]]
* [[青铜器时代]]
* [[青蛙]]
* [[青魆魆]], [[青虚虚]]
* [[青眼]]
* [[青杨]]
* [[青衣]]
* [[青油油]]
* [[青鱼]]
* [[青郁]]
* [[青云]]
* [[青云直上]]
* [[青肿]]
* [[青贮]]
* [[青壮年]]
* [[青藜]] (qīng lí)
{{bottom}}
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: AB43
** Decimal: 43843

===See also===
* [[藍]], [[蓝]]
* [[蒼]], [[苍]]
* [[紺]], [[绀]]
* [[碧]]

----

==Vietnamese==

===Han character===
{{vi-hantu|[[thanh]], [[thênh]], [[xanh]]|rs=靑00}}

# {{defn|lang=vi|sort=靑00}}

====References====
*[http://nomfoundation.org/common/nom_details.php?codepoint=9752&img=1 Nom Foundation]

[[Category:CJKV radicals]]

[[zh-min-nan:青]]
[[cs:青]]
[[el:青]]
[[es:青]]
[[fr:青]]
[[ko:青]]
[[it:青]]
[[sw:青]]
[[lo:青]]
[[li:青]]
[[hu:青]]
[[mg:青]]
[[ms:青]]
[[ja:青]]
[[km:青]]
[[pl:青]]
[[pt:青]]
[[ru:青]]
[[tr:青]]
[[uk:青]]
[[zh:青]]