{{wikipedia|dab=race (disambiguation)|race}}
==English==

{{rank|fast|middle|effort|881|race|ladies|rise|looks}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|/rās/}}, {{IPA|/reɪs/}}, {{SAMPA|/reIs/}}
* {{audio|en-us-race.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|eɪs}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{MF.}} {{term|race|lang=fr}}, from {{It.}} {{term|razza|lang=it}}, possibly from {{Arab.}} {{term|sc=Arab|رأس|رأس|tr=ra’s|lang=ar|head}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# A large group of people [[distinguish]]ed from others on the basis of a common [[heritage]].
#: ''The [[Anglo-Saxon]] '''race'''''
# A large group of people distinguished from others on the basis of common, [[genetically]] [[linked]], [[physical]] [[characteristic]]s, such as skin color or hair type.
#: '''''Race''' was a significant issue during apartheid in South Africa.''
# {{context|controversial usage}} One of the categories from the many subcategorizations of the human species. ''See Wikipedia's article on [[w:Race_(historical_definitions)|historical definitions of race]].''
#: ''The Native Americans colonized the New World in several waves from Asia, and thus they are part of the same Mongoloid '''race'''.''
# {{biology}} A population geographically separated from others of its species that develops significantly different characteristics; informal for [[subspecies]].
# A [[breed]] or [[strain]] of [[domesticate]]d animal.
# {{figurative}} A category or species of something that has emerged or evolved from an older one (with an implied parallel to animal [[breeding]] or [[evolutionary science]]).
#: ''The advent of the Internet has brought about a new '''race''' of entrepreneur.''
#: ''Recent developments in artificial intelligence has brought about a new '''race''' of robots that can perform household chores without supervision.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[subspecies]]
* [[breed]]
* [[variety]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a large group of people set apart from others on the basis of a common heritage}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عرق|عِرْق]]}} {{IPAchar|(ʕirq)}} {{m}}
* Chinese: [[种]] (zhǒng), [[种族]] (zhǒng zú)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rasa|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ras}}, {{t+|nl|afkomst}}
* {{trreq|Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rotu}}
* {{trreq|French}}
* German: {{t+|de|Geschlecht|n}}, {{t+|de|Rasse|f}}
* Hebrew: [[גזע]] ('geza') {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|faj}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|razza|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|人種|tr=jinshu|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|じんしゅ}})
* Korean: [[인종]] (injong)
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|نه‌ته‌وه‌|sc=KUchar}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|genus|n}}, {{t+|la|gens|f}}
* {{trreq|Old English}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|раса|f|tr=rása|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rasa|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raza|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ras|c}}
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a large group of people set apart from others on the basis of common, genetically-linked, physical characteristics}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ras}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rotu}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|razza|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|人種|tr=jinshu|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|じんしゅ}})
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[نه‌ته‌وه‌]]}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rasa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ras|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one of the categories from the many subcategorizations of the human species}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ras}}, {{t+|nl|afkomst}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|razza|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rasa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ras|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a population geographically separated from others of its species that develops significantly different characteristics; informal for subspecies}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ras|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a breed or strain of domesticated animal}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ras}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rotu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a category or species of something that has emerged or evolved from an older one}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|soort}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[racism]]
* [[racial]]
* [[racy]]

===Etymology 2===
{{ME.}} from {{ON.}} {{term|ras|rás|lang=non}}, akin to Old English {{term|ræs|lang=ang}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|racing}}
{{en-noun|-}}

# A contest between people, animals, vehicles, etc. where the goal is to be the first to reach some objective. Several horses run in a ''horse race'', and the first one to reach the finishing post wins; in an ''arms race'' several countries each try to acquire more powerful weapons than any other.
# A progressive movement toward a goal.
# A fast moving current of water.
# A rhizome (esp. of ginger).
# The [[bushing]]s of a rolling element [[bearing]] which contacts the rolling elements.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|contest}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[سباق]]}} {{IPAchar|(sibāq)}} {{m}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|trka|f}}
* Chinese: [[競賽]], [[竞赛]] (jìng sài)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|trka|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|závod|m}}
* Dutch: [[wedloop]] {{m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kilpailu}}, {{t-|fi|kilpa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|course|f}}
* German: {{t-|de|Rennen|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|verseny}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|corsa|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|競争|tr=kyōsō|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|きょうそう}})
* Korean: [[경주]] (gyeongju)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|corrida|f}}
* Russian: [[гонки]] (gónki) {{f|p}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[трка]] {{f}}, [[гонка]] {{f}} {{i|rare}}
*: Roman: [[trka]] {{f}}, [[gonka]] {{f}} {{i|rare}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|dirka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|carrera|f}}
* Swedish: [[kapplöpning]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a progressive movement toward a goal}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|進行|tr=shinkō|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|しんこう}})
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a fast moving current of water}}
* Finnish: [[voimakas]] [[virta]], [[koski]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a rhizome}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|地下茎|tr=chikakei|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|ちかけい}})
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raíz|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the bushings of a rolling element}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
{{checktrans}}
* [[Breton]]: [[redadeg]] {{f}} (1), [[red#Breton|red]] {{m}} (3), [[gouenn]] {{f}} (5)
* Chinese: [[比赛]] (bǐsài), [[竞赛]] (jìngsài), [[竞争]] (jìngzhēng); [[人类]] (rénlèi), [[种族]] (zhǒngzú), [[种]] (zhǒng), [[类]] (lèi)
* Dutch: [[wedstrijd]] {{f}} (1), race {{f}} (1), [[wedloop]] {{m}} (1), [[ras]] {{n}} (5)
* French: race {{f}} (5)
* German: [[Rennen]] {{n}} (1, 2), [[Rasse]] {{f}} (4, 5)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|verseny}}
* [[Ido]]: [[raso]]
* Indonesian: [[lomba]] (1), [[pacu]]an (1), [[laju]] (2,3), [[ras]] (4)
* [[Interlingua]]: [[cursa]] (1, 2); [[currente]], [[torrente#Interlingua|torrente]] (3); [[racia]] (4, 5)
* Irish: [[clann]] {{f}} (4)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[시합]] (sihap)
* Polish: [[wyścig]] {{m}} (1, 2), [[rasa]] (3, 4)
* Portuguese: [[corrida#Portuguese|corrida]] {{f}} (1,2); [[correnteza]] {{f}}, [[torrente#Portuguese|torrente]] {{f}} (3); [[raça]] {{f}} (4, 5)
* Romanian: [[cursă]], [[concurs]] (1)
* Spanish: [[concurso]] (1), [[carrera]] (2), [[corriente]] (3), [[raza]] (4, 5), [[raíz]] (7)
* Russian: [[гонка]] {{f}} (1, 2), [[раса]] {{f}} (4, 5)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rac|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} To take part in a race (in the sense of a contest).
# {{intransitive}} To move or drive at high speed.
#: ''As soon as it was time to go home, he '''raced''' for the door.''
#: ''Her heart was '''racing''' as she peered into the dimly lit room.''
# {{intransitive}} Of a motor, to run rapidly when not engaged to a transmission.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to take part in a race}}
* [[Breton]]: [[kemer perzh]] en ur [[redadeg]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kilpailla}}, {{t+|fi|kisailla}}
* Indonesian: [[lomba]], [[pacu|berpacu]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[currer]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|correre}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|競う|tr=kisou|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|[[きそう]]}}), {{t|ja|競争する|tr=kyōsō-suru|sc=Jpan}} ({{Jpan|きょうそうする}})
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|correr}}
* Slovene: [[dirkati]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move or drive at high speed}}
* Finnish: [[kiitää]], [[porhaltaa]]
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|száguld}}
* Indonesian: [[pacu|berpacu]], [[laju|melaju]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[currer]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|correre}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|correr}}
* Slovene: [[dirjati]] (to move), [[dirkati]] (to drive)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a motor, to run rapidly when not engaged to a transmission}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[racen]], [[rennen]], [[wedlopen]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[acre]]
* [[care]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Gaits]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
:* {{IPA|/res/|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
From {{E.|nl}} '''race'''

===Noun===
de {{nl-noun|races|racejes}}

# Speed contest, race

====Derived terms====
:* [[raceauto]]
:* [[racebaan]]
:* [[racefiets]]
:* [[racen]]

===Verb===
'''race'''
* ''[[first person]] [[singular]]'' of racen
* ''[[imperative]]'' of racen

# {{defn|Dutch}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{It.|fr}} {{term|razza|lang=it}}, possibly from {{Arab.|fr}} {{term|sc=Arab|رأس|رأس|tr=ra’s|lang=ar|head}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-race.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/ʀas/}}, {{SAMPA|/Ras/}}
*: [[Rhymes:French:-as|Rhymes: -as]]

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#English|race]] {{i|classification}}
# [[kind]]

====Synonyms====
* [[espèce]]

====Related terms====
* [[racé]]
* [[racial]]
* [[racialisme]]
* [[racialiste]]
* [[raciologie]]
* [[racisme]]
* [[raciste]]

[[ang:race]]
[[zh-min-nan:race]]
[[de:race]]
[[et:race]]
[[fa:race]]
[[fr:race]]
[[ko:race]]
[[io:race]]
[[id:race]]
[[it:race]]
[[ku:race]]
[[hu:race]]
[[nl:race]]
[[ja:race]]
[[pl:race]]
[[ru:race]]
[[sr:race]]
[[fi:race]]
[[ta:race]]
[[te:race]]
[[vi:race]]
[[tr:race]]
[[zh:race]]