{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
[[rail]] + [[road]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-railroad.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A permanent [[road]] consisting of fixed [[metal]] rails to drive trains or similar motorized vehicles on.
#: ''Many '''railroads''' roughly follow the trace of older land - and/or water roads
# The [[transportation]] system comprising such roads and [[vehicle]]s fitted to [[travel]] on the rails, usually with several vehicles connected together in a [[train]].
# A single, privately or publicly owned property comprising one or more such roads and usually associated assets
#: '''''Railroads''' can only compete fully if their tracks are techically compatible with and linked to each-other
# {{figurative}} A [[procedure]] conducted or bullied in haste without due consideration.
#: ''The lawyers made the procedure a '''railroad''' to get the signatures they needed.''

====Synonyms====
* [[railroad track]], [[railway]]

====Derived terms====
* [[railroad flat]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|permanent road consisting of fixed metal rails}}
* Chinese: [[鐵道]], [[铁道]] (''tiědào'')
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spoorweg|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rata}}, {{t+|fi|rautatie}}
* French: {{t+|fr|voie ferrée|f}}
* German: [[Eisenbahnlinie]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vasút}},  {{t+|hu|vasútvonal}},  {{t+|hu|sín}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|iarnród|m|xs=Irish}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|線路|tr=''senr''o|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[ishkodewidaabaanikana]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|железная дорога|f|tr=''želéznaja doróga''|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|järnväg|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transportation system}}
: (definite article required in languages which have those)
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[سكة الحديد]]}} {{IPAchar|(''síket al-ħadīd'')}} {{f}}
* Chinese: [[鐵路]], [[铁路]] (''tiělù'')
* Czech: {{t-|cs|železnice|f}}
* Dutch: de {{t+|nl|spoorwegen|n}}, het {{t+|nl|spoorwegsysteem|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rautatie}}, {{t+|fi|rautatie|alt=rautatiet}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chemin de fer|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Eisenbahn|f}}
* Hebrew: [[מסילת רכבת]] (''mesillat-rakevet'') {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vasút}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|iarnród|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ferrovia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|鉄道|tr=[[てつどう]], ''tetsudō''|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[철도]] (''cheoldo'')
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[ishkodewidaabaan]]
* Portuguese: [[estrada de ferro]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|железная дорога|f|tr=''želéznaja doróga''|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ferrocarril|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|järnväg|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unduely hasted procedure}}
* Dutch: [[sneltreinprocedure]] {{m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[fervojo]]
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[ferrovia]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[철도]] (''cheoldo'')
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[kolej]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[ferrocarril]] {{m}}, [[riel]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Veps}}: [[raudte]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[transport]] via railroad.
# {{intransitive}} To [[operate]] a railroad.
#: ''The Thatcherite experiment proved the private sector can '''railroad''' as ineffeciently as a state monopoly
# {{intransitive}} To work for a railroad.
# {{intransitive}} To engage in a [[hobby]] pertaining to railroads.
# {{transitive}} To manipulate and hasten a procedure, as of formal approval of a law or resolution.
#: ''The majority '''railroaded''' the bill through parliament, without the customary expert studies which would delay it till after the elections.''
# {{transitive}} To convict of a crime by circumventing [[due process]].
#: ''They could only convict him by '''railroading''' him on suspect drug-possession charges.''
# {{transitive}} To procedurally [[bully]] someone into an unfair agreement.
#: ''He was '''railroaded''' into signing a non-disclosure agreement at his exit interview.''

====Derived terms====
* [[railroader]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to transport via railroad}}
* Dutch: [[versporen]]
* Hungarian: [[vasúton szállít]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|鉄道輸送する|tr=''tetsudō-yusō suru''|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to work for a railroad}}
* Dutch: aan het [[spoor]] [[werken]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to operate a railroad}}
* Dutch: (een) [[spoorweg]](en) [[uitbaten]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|phrase}} {{t|ja|鉄道を経営する|tr=''tetsudō wo keiei suru''|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to engage in a hobby pertaining to railroads}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|phrase}} {{t|ja|鉄道模型をする|tr=''tetsudō-mokei wo suru''|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to manipulate and hasten a procedure}}
* Dutch: (iets) er (met de knoet) [[doorjagen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to prepare a rapid summary process}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|keresztülhajt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|phrase}} {{t|ja|強引に通過させる|tr=''gōin ni tsūka saseru''|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

[[Category:Rail transportation]]

[[zh-min-nan:railroad]]
[[el:railroad]]
[[fr:railroad]]
[[ko:railroad]]
[[io:railroad]]
[[it:railroad]]
[[hu:railroad]]
[[ja:railroad]]
[[ru:railroad]]
[[simple:railroad]]
[[fi:railroad]]
[[th:railroad]]
[[vi:railroad]]
[[zh:railroad]]