{{wikipedia|dab=rake}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-rake.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪk|-eɪk]]

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}}  ''[[raca]]'', from Common Germanic *''rakaz''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A garden [[tool]] with a row of pointed teeth fixed to a long handle, used for collecting grass or [[debris]], or for [[loosen]]ing soil.
# ([[Ireland]] / [[idiomatic]]) a lot, plenty.
#: Jim has had a [[rake]] of trouble with his new car.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[thin as a rake]]
=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* Arabic: [[شوكة الحشائش]]
* [[Basque]]: [[are]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[rampí]] {{m}}, [[rasclet]] {{m}}
* Croatian: [[grablje]] {{f|p}}
* Dutch: [[riek]] {{m}}, [[gritsel]] {{m}}, [[hark#Dutch|hark]] {{m}}
* Estonian: [[reha]]
* Finnish: [[harava]]
* French: [[râteau]] {{m}}
* German: [[Rechen]] {{m}}, [[Harke]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: [[gereblye]]
* Italian: [[rastrello]] {{m}}
* Japanese: [[熊手]] (kumade)
{{mid}}
* Korean: [[갈퀴]] (galkwi)
* Polish: [[grabie]] {{p}}
* Russian [[грабли]]
* Serbian: [[grabulja]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[hrable]]
* Slovene: [[grablje]] {{f|p}}
* Spanish: [[rastrillo]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[kratta]], [[räfsa]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From the verb ''rake''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A man [[habituate]]d to [[immoral]] [[conduct]].
#: ''We now have rakes in the habit of Roman senators, and grave politicians in the dress of Rakes. &mdash; the Spectator''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[roué]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* Arabic: [[رجل بلا أخلاق]]
* French: [[roué#French|roué]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Via {{ME.}} from {{ON.}} ''[[raka]]'', from Common Germanic *''rakan''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rak|ing}}

# To use a rake on (leaves, debris, soil, a lawn, etc) in order to loosen, gather together, or remove debris from.
#: ''We '''raked''' all the leaves into a pile''
# To search thoroughly.
#: ''Detectives appeared, roped the curious people out of the grounds, and '''raked''' the place for clews.  -- Captain John Blaine''
# To spray with gunfire.
#: ''the enemy machine guns '''raked''' the roadway''

=====Synonyms=====
* (''search thoroughly''): [[comb]], go over ''or'' through with a [[fine-tooth comb]], [[scour]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|use a rake on}}
* Arabic: 1.[[يجمع الحشائش]].3, [[يسرح الشعر\الحشائش]].2, [[قذائف مكثفة]]
* Dutch: [[rakelen]], [[harken]], [[gritselen]]
* Estonian: [[rehitsema]]
* Finnish: [[haravoida]]
* French: [[râtisser]]
* Italian: [[rastrellare]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[갈퀴다]] (''galkwida'')
* Polish: [[grabić]]
* Slovene: [[grabiti]]
* Spanish: [[rasurar]]
* Swedish: [[kratta]], [[räfsa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|search thoroughly}}
* Finnish: [[haravoida]]
* French: [[fouiller]], [[passer au peigne fin]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[훑다]] (''hultda'')
* Polish: [[przeczesywać]]
* Swedish: [[finkamma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spray with gunfire}}
* French: [[arroser]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[ostrzeliwać]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
Probably related to German ''[[ragen]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rak|ing}}

# [[jut]] out (ship’s bow or stern above keel)

----

==Dutch==

===Adjective===
'''rake''' (''base form'' [[raak]])

# hitting its target

===See also===
* [[rake klappen]]

[[de:rake]]
[[fa:rake]]
[[fr:rake]]
[[io:rake]]
[[it:rake]]
[[hu:rake]]
[[pl:rake]]
[[pt:rake]]
[[fi:rake]]
[[te:rake]]
[[vi:rake]]
[[zh:rake]]