

== '''!!!!!!!!!!!! It fun to do it and it's free !!!!!!!!!!!''' ==


{{see|râpé}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|rape (word)}}

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪp|-eɪp]]

===Etymology 1===
{{L.}} ''[[rapere]]'' to abduct or seize by force.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{crime}} The act of forcing [[sexual intercourse]] or other sexual activity upon another [[person]], without their [[consent]] and/or against their [[will]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|the act of forcing sexual activity}}
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[verkragting]]
*Armenian: [[բռնաբարություն]] (bŕnabarut῾yun)
*Chinese: [[强奸]] (qiǎng jiān)
*Czech: [[znásilnění]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[verkrachting]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[raiskaus]], (''law'') [[väkisinmakaaminen]]
*French: [[viol]] {{m}}
*German: [[Vergewaltigung]] {{f}}
*Icelandic: [[nauðgun]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stupro]], [[violation]]
*Italian: [[stupro]] {{m}}, [[violento]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[強姦]] (ごうかん, gōkan)
{{trans-mid}}
*Malay: [[rogol]]
*[[Malayalam]]: [[ബലാത്സംഗം]]
*Norwegian: [[voldtekt]]
*Old English: [[unrihthæmed|unrihthǣmed]]
*Polish: [[gwałt]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[estupro]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[răpire]] {{f}}, [[viol]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[преступление]] (prestuplénije) {{n}}
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[èignich|èigneachadh]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[violación]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[våldtäkt]] {{c}} (1)
*[[Telugu]]: [[మానభంగం]] (maanabhaMgaM)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rap|ing}}

# To force [[sexual intercourse]] or other sexual activity upon another [[person]], without their [[consent]].
# To [[abuse]] an object in an extreme manner.
#: ''The loggers '''raped''' the [[virgin forest]]''
# {{slang}} To [[dominate]] in a [[contest]].
#: ''My experienced opponent will '''rape''' me at chess.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to force sexual intercourse}}
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[verkrag]]
*Armenian: [[բռնաբարել]] (bŕnabarel)
*Chinese: [[强奸]] (qiángjiān)
*Dutch: [[verkrachten]]
*Finnish: [[raiskata]]
*French: [[violer]]
*German: [[vergewaltigen]]
*Icelandic: [[nauðga]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stuprar]], [[violar]]
*Italian: [[stuprare]], [[violentare]], [[violare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[強姦]]する (ごうかんする, gōkansuru), [[暴行]]する　（ぼうこうする, bōkōsuru), [[犯す]] ([[おかす]], okasu)
*Polish: [[gwałcić]], [[zgwałcić]]
*Portuguese: [[estuprar]], [[violentar]]
*Romanian: [[răpi]], [[viola]]
*Russian: [[похищать]] (pokhiščát’)
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[èignich]]
*Spanish: [[violar]]
*Swedish: [[våldta]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[మానభంగం చేయు]] (maanabhaMgaM chaeyu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause damage, destruction to a countryside, nature etc}}
*Icelandic: [[valda spjöllum á]], [[spilla]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Synonyms=====
*(''to force sexual intercourse''): [[ravish]], [[violate]], [[vitiate]]
*(''to abuse''): [[plunder]], [[despoil]]

====Related terms====
*[[rapist]]
*[[rapt]]
*[[statutory rape]]

===Etymology 2===
{{L.}} ''rapum -rapa'': a turnip.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|rape}}

# [[rapeseed|Rapeseed.]] ''Brassica napus''

=====Quotations=====
*'''2001''': Bill Lambrecht, ''Dinner at the New Gene Café'', 231
*: After the Industrial Revolution, it was discovered that '''rape''' also yields oil suitable for lubrication.

=====Translations=====
*''See under [[rapeseed]].''

===Etymology 3===
From the {{F.}} ''rape'' (''grape stalk'').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The stalks and [[husk]]s of grapes.
# A filter containing the stalks and husks of grapes used for clarifying wine.
# {{obsolete}} Fruit plucked in a bunch.
#: ''a '''rape''' of grapes''.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|grape husks}}
&nbsp;
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wine filter}}
&nbsp;
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bunch of fruit}}
&nbsp;
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Criminal law]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{infl|it|noun|cat=noun forms|gender=f|plural}}

# {{plural of|lang=Italian|rapa|nodot=1}}; [[turnips]].

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''rape''' {{m}}

# [[monkfish]]

[[fa:rape]]
[[fr:rape]]
[[io:rape]]
[[it:rape]]
[[kk:rape]]
[[hu:rape]]
[[pl:rape]]
[[pt:rape]]
[[ru:rape]]
[[fi:rape]]
[[ta:rape]]
[[te:rape]]
[[vi:rape]]
[[zh:rape]]