{{wikipedia|Rate (disambiguation)}}
{{also|Rate|raté}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|rāt}}, {{IPA|/ɹeɪt/}}, {{SAMPA|/r\eIt/}},
* {{audio|en-us-rate.ogg|Audio (US)}}
: {{rhymes|eɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro}}, from {{etyl|ML.}} {{term|lang=la|rata}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|lang=la||prō ratā parte||according to a fixed part}}, from {{term|lang=la|ratus||fixed}}, from {{term|lang=la|reri|rērī|think, deem, judge, originally reckon, calculate}}.

{{wikipedia}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} The estimated [[worth]] of something; [[value]]. {{defdate|15th-19th c.}}
#* '''1599''', William Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet'', V.3:
#*: There shall no figure at such '''rate''' be set, / As that of true and faithfull Iuliet.
# The proportional relationship between one [[amount]], value etc. and another. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#: ''At the height of his powers, he was producing pictures at the '''rate''' of four a year.''
# The price of (an individual) thing; [[cost]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#: ''He asked quite a '''rate''' to take me to the airport.''
# A set [[price]] or [[charge]] for all examples of a given case, commodity, service etc. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#: ''Postal '''rates''' here are low.''
# Any of various [[tax]]es, especially those levied by a local authority. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''I hardly have enough left every month to pay the '''rates'''.''
# [[speed|Speed]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''The car was speeding down here at a hell of a '''rate'''.''
# The relative speed of change or progress. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''The '''rate''' of production at the factory is skyrocketing.''
# {{nautical}} A [[class]] into which [[ship]]s were assigned based on condition, size etc.; by extension, [[rank]].
#: ''This textbook is first '''rate'''''.

=====Derived terms=====
<!-- compounds -->
* [[at any rate]]
* [[flat rate]]
* [[interest rate]]
* [[mortality rate]]
* [[failure rate]]
* [[rate limiting]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|proportional relationship between amounts}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|معدل|m|tr=mu3addal}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|比率|tr=bǐlǜ|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vauhti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taux}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rate|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tasso}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|比率|tr=hiritsu}}, {{t|ja|割合|tr=wariai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|hyppighet}}, {{t-|no|prosent}}, {{t+|no|tall}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|tempo}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|taxa|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|rată|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пропорция|f|tr=propórtsija}}, {{t+|ru|отношение|n|tr=otnošénije}}, {{t+|ru|курс|m|tr=kurs}}, {{t+|ru|коэффициент|m|tr=koefficiént}}, {{t+|ru|ставка|f|tr=stávka}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tasa|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|set price or fee determined in relation to a particular scale or standard}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|sazba|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|割合|tr=wariai}}; {{qualifier|fee}} {{t|ja|利率|tr=riritsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|stawka|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ставка|f|tr=stávka}}, {{t+|ru|процент|m|tr=procént}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|price of individual thing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maksu}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rate|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|比率|tr=hiritsu}}, {{t|ja|割合|tr=wariai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|taryfa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|тариф|tr=taríf}}, {{t+|ru|расценка|f|tr=rascénka}}, {{t+|ru|цена|f|tr=cená}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|impuesto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|relative speed}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vauhti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rate|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|割合|tr=wariai}}; {{qualifier|production speed}} {{t|ja|生産速度|tr=sēsan sokudo}}; {{qualifier|growth of a company, country}} {{t|ja|成長率|tr=seichōritsu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скорость|f|tr=skórost’}}, {{t|ru|темп|m|tr=temp}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|velocidad|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wages calculated in relation to a unit of time}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|tarief|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tuntipalkka}}, {{t-|fi|kuukausipalkka}}, {{t+|fi|palkka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|割合|tr=wariai}}; {{qualifier|per hour}} {{t|ja|時給|tr=jikyū}}; {{qualifier|per day}} {{t|ja|日給|tr=nikkyū}}; {{qualifier|per month}} {{t-|ja|月給|tr=gekkyū}}; {{qualifier|per year}} {{t|ja|年収|tr=nenshū}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|level of quality}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laatu}}, {{t|fi|laatutaso}}, {{t+|fi|luokka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|級|tr=kyū}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Ratio}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{Arab|[[معدل]]}} {{IPAchar|(moʕáddal)}} {{m}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[verhouding]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[proportion]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[Verhältnis]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[proporzione]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[비율]] (biyul)
* {{ttbc|zh}}: [[比率]] (bǐlǜ)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[razão]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[proporción]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[proportion]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[assign]] or be assigned a particular [[rank]] or [[level]].
#: ''She is '''rated''' fourth in the country.''
# {{transitive}} To [[evaluate]] or [[estimate]] the [[value]] of.
#: ''They '''rate''' his talents highly.''
# {{transitive}} To [[consider]] or [[regard]].
#: ''He '''rated''' this book brilliant.''
# {{transitive}} To [[deserve]]; to be [[worth]].
#: ''The view here hardly '''rates''' a mention in the travel guide.''
#* '''1955''', [[w:Rex Stout|Rex Stout]], "When a Man Murders...",<!--... in title--> in [[w:Three Witnesses (book)|''Three Witnesses'']], October 1994 [[w:Bantam Books|Bantam]] edition, ISBN 0553249592, page 101:
#*: Only two assistant district attorneys '''rate''' corner offices, and Mandelbaum wasn't one of them.
# {{transitive}} To [[determine]] the [[limit]]s of safe [[function]]ing for a [[machine]] or [[electrical]] [[device]].
#: ''The transformer is '''rated''' at 10 watts.''
# {{transitive}} (''chiefly {{British}}'') To [[evaluate]] a [[property]]'s [[value]] for the purposes of local [[taxation]].
# {{transitive}} {{informal}} To [[like]]; to [[think highly of]].
#: ''The customers don't '''rate''' the new burgers.''
# {{intransitive}} To have [[position]] (in a certain [[class]]).
#: ''She '''rates''' among the most excellent chefs in the world.''
#: ''He '''rates''' as the best cyclist in the country.''
# {{intransitive}} To have value or [[standing]].
#: ''This last performance of her's didn't '''rate''' very high with the judges.''

====Derived terms====
* [[rating]]

===Etymology 2===
Origin unknown. Compare {{term|arate}}, {{term|rehete}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rat|es}}

# {{transitive}} To [[berate]], [[scold]].
#* '''1526''', William Tyndale, trans. ''Bible'', John IX:
#*: Then '''rated''' they hym, and sayde: Thou arte hys disciple.
#* '''1603''', John Florio, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', I.56:
#*: ''Andronicus'' the Emperour, finding by chance in his pallace certaine principall men very earnestly disputing against ''Lapodius'' about one of our points of great importance, taunted and '''rated''' them very bitterly, and threatened if they gave not over, he would cause them to be cast into the river.
#* '''1843''', [[w:Thomas_Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', book 2, ch. XV, ''Practical — Devotional''
#*: The successful monk, on the morrow morning, hastens home to [[:w:Ely, Cambridgeshire|Ely]] […] The successful monk, arriving at Ely, is '''rated''' for a goose and an owl; is ordered back to say that [[:w:Elmsett|Elmset]] was the place meant.

=====Translations=====
See ''to [[berate]]''.

===Anagrams===
* [[tare#English|tare]], [[tear#English|tear]]

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʁat/|lang=fr}}, [[w:X-SAMPA|X-SAMPA]]: <tt>/Rat/</tt>

===Etymology 1===
Origin uncertain.

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[spleen]]

===Etymology 2===
Inflected forms.

====Noun====
{{fr-noun|f}}

# (female) [[rat]]

====Verb====
{{fr-verb-form}}

# first-person singular indicative present form of '''[[rater#French|rater]]'''
# third-person singular indicative present form of '''[[rater#French|rater]]'''
# first-person singular subjunctive present form of '''[[rater#French|rater]]'''
# third-person singular subjunctive present form of '''[[rater#French|rater]]'''
# second-person singular imperative of '''[[rater#French|rater]]'''

===Anagrams===
* [[âtre#French|âtre]], [[tare#French|tare]], [[taré#French|taré]]

----

==German==

===Verb===
'''rate'''

# Imperative of ''[[raten]]''.
#: ''Rate mal, wer gerade gekommen ist!'' - Guess who's just arrived.

----

==Interlingua==

===Noun===
{{ia-noun}}

# A [[raft]].

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''rate''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|rata|lang=it}}

===Anagrams===
* [[arte#Italian|arte]], [[atre#Italian|atre]], [[erta#Italian|erta]], [[etra#Italian|etra]], [[tare#Italian|tare]], [[trae#Italian|trae]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|rate}}

# {{inflection of|ratus|ratus|voc|m|s|lang=la}}
{{count page|[[Wiktionary:Page count]]}}

[[ar:rate]]
[[cs:rate]]
[[de:rate]]
[[et:rate]]
[[es:rate]]
[[eo:rate]]
[[fa:rate]]
[[fr:rate]]
[[gl:rate]]
[[ko:rate]]
[[io:rate]]
[[it:rate]]
[[kn:rate]]
[[ku:rate]]
[[lt:rate]]
[[hu:rate]]
[[ml:rate]]
[[my:rate]]
[[nl:rate]]
[[ja:rate]]
[[no:rate]]
[[pl:rate]]
[[pt:rate]]
[[ru:rate]]
[[simple:rate]]
[[fi:rate]]
[[sv:rate]]
[[ta:rate]]
[[te:rate]]
[[tr:rate]]
[[vi:rate]]
[[wa:rate]]
[[zh:rate]]