==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[realitas]]'' from [[real]] + [[-ity]]

===Noun===

== '''Reality''' One view
Try this imagine that you are all alone in a pitch black room, by yourself for all of time.  The same thoughts, the same things, never changing. Forever the same. Does that sound boring? Lonely? What would you do? You might go mad, you might develop a split personality, to end that loneliness. To end the boredom, don’t you think?
Now this is where it starts to get spiritual, just read.  
	What if god/concusses just is. It just is because it is. And is singler just one. Think of that loneliness, of being by yourself fore ever. The loneliness of one.  Now what if just what if god/concusses out of loneliness created existence, to end that eternal loneliness.  What if god/conciseness broke throw the meta-phsysical realm to the physical realm or maybe the physical realm is an illusion. Either way that’s not my point.
	Just for now let’s jump to the big bang. All the matter that is, is entirely condensed to the size of a period… them boom it explode in ever direction. The universe is created.  We are keeping this basic.  So let’s look at what ever thing is made of. Atoms are the building blocks for every thing, but there is only one atom, one building block. Throw fusion and fission the hydrogen atoms make up all the others. So just remember that we are that every thing is basically the same thing. Planets form universe are created but everything is still one still very lonely. So it starts life and in doing so it gives some of it self to that life. Slowly life evolves creators that can hold more conciss are made. Finally there is a vessel that can hold thought. God/concusses to end lonely it fills the vessels with itself. To end lonely it must forget itself. Other wise it would be like watching a TV program that you’ve seen. If it remembered it would be lonely again.  Fail safe would be need. Right now you’re either laughing or thinking how to make sense of it.  Just remember that we are all star dust. So we are the same.  And remember that all atoms are governed by electro-magnetic. Our brains are bio-electrical power plants, which are also governed by electro-magnetic. We use less then 10% of our brain. We have a sub concuss that lets us dream. Our minds are unlimited our thoughts, wishes, dream show that. We all have god in us because we are god we just can’t remember. The more we learn, the more we learn how much we don’t know. There is only one picture but infent details.
We all are connected we all are god that have forgotten 

I can fit anything in to this thought.  It can explain anything, sci., religion just think about it, question it, ask questions and realize it yourself. 
If knowledge is power then god are we?
 ==



====Derived terms====
*[[reality check]]
*[[reality television]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[stvarnost]] {{f}}, [[realnost]] {{f}}, [[java]] {{f}}
*Bulgarian: [[реалност]] (realnost)
*Catalan: [[realitat]]
*Dutch: [[werkelijkheid]]
*Finnish: [[todellisuus]]
*French: [[realité]]
*German: [[Wirklichkeit]] {{f}}, [[Realität]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[πραγματικότητα]] (pragmatikotita)([[:el:Πραγματικότητα|el]])
*Hebrew: [[מדומה]]
*Italian: [[realtà]]
*Japanese: [[現実]] (げんじつ, genjitsu)
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[realitas]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[rzeczywistość]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[realidade]]
*Russian: [[реальность]] (reál'nost')
*Serbian:
:*Cyrillic: [[стварност]] {{f}}, [[реалност]] {{f}}, [[јава]] {{f}}
:*Latin: [[stvarnost]] {{f}}, [[realnost]] {{f}}, [[java]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[resničnost]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[realidad]]
*Swedish: [[verklighet]] {{c}}
*Ukrainian: [[реальність]] (real'nist')
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[Tao]]
*[[Ananke]]

[[fa:reality]]
[[fr:reality]]
[[ko:reality]]
[[hy:reality]]
[[io:reality]]
[[it:reality]]
[[kk:reality]]
[[hu:reality]]
[[ja:reality]]
[[pt:reality]]
[[fi:reality]]
[[ta:reality]]
[[vi:reality]]
[[zh:reality]]