{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|John|hour|air|368|reason|feel|behind|sn}}

===Etymology===
From Anglo-Norman [[resoun]] ({{OF.}} [[raison]]), from {{L.}} [[rationem]] (nomative of [[ratio]]).

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈɹiːzn/}}, {{SAMPA|/"ri:zn/}}
*{{audio|en-us-reason.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːzən|-iːzən]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[thought]] or a [[consideration]] offered in support of a determination or an opinion; a just ground for a conclusion or an action; that which is offered or accepted as an explanation; the efficient cause of an occurrence or a phenomenon; a motive for an action or a determination; proof, more or less decisive, for an opinion or a conclusion; principle; efficient cause; final cause; ground of argument.
#: ''He had no '''reason''' to do that.''
# The mind, the reasoning processes of the mind. 
#: ''Mankind should develop '''reason''' above all other virtues.''
# Due exercise of the reasoning faculty; accordance with, or that which is accordant with and ratified by, the mind rightly exercised; right intellectual judgment; clear and fair deductions from true principles; that which is dictated or supported by the common sense of mankind; right conduct; right; propriety; justice.
#: ''I was promised, on a time, To have '''reason''' for my rhyme.'' —Spenser
# {{italbrac|mathematics|obsolete}} [[ratio]]; [[proportion]].

====Synonyms====
* ''(support of a determination)'' [[rationale]], [[motive]], [[proof]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A thought or a consideration}}
*Czech: [[důvod]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[grund]]
*Finnish: [[syy]], [[peruste]], [[vaikutin]]
*German: [[Grund]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[razón]] {{f}}
*Norwegian: [[grunn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The faculty of capacity of the human mind}}
*Czech: [[rozum]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[fornuft]]
*Finnish: [[järki]]
*German: [[Vernunft]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[razón]] {{f}}
*Norwegian: [[fornuft]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Due exercise of the reasoning faculty}}
*Finnish: [[järkeily]], [[järjen käyttö]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[razón]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To exercise the rational faculty; to deduce inferences from premises; to perform the process of deduction or of induction; to ratiocinate; to reach conclusions by a systematic comparison of facts.
# Hence: To carry on a process of deduction or of induction, in order to convince or to confute; to formulate and set forth propositions and the inferences from them; to argue.
# To converse; to compare opinions.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To exercise the rational faculty}}
*Danish: [[ræsonnere]], [[overveje]]
*Finnish: [[pohtia]], [[järkeillä]]
*Portuguese: [[Razão]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Hence: To carry on a process of deduction or of induction}}
*Danish: [[slutte]]
*Finnish: [[järkeillä]]
*Portuguese: [[Razão]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To arrange and present the reasons for or against; to examine or discuss by arguments; to debate or discuss.
#: ''I '''reasoned''' the matter with my friend.''
# ''rare'' To support with reasons, as a request.
# To persuade by reasoning or argument.
#: ''to '''reason''' one into a belief; to '''reason''' one out of his plan''
# To overcome or conquer by adducing reasons; -- with ''[[down]].''
#: ''to '''reason''' down a passion''
# To find by logical process; to explain or justify by reason or argument; -- usually with ''[[out]]''.
#: ''to '''reason''' out the causes of the librations of the moon''

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}
*Arabic [[سبب]] (sabab)
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[理由]] (lǐ yóu)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[alas|alasan]], [[sebab]], [[dasar]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[理由]] ([[りゆう]], riyū), [[訳]] ([[わけ]], wake)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[motiv]] {{n}} (1), [[raţiune]] {{f}} (2)
*{{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[סיבה]] {{f}} (1), [[שׂכל]] {{m}} (2)
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కారణము]] (kaaraNamu)

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:reason]]
[[zh-min-nan:reason]]
[[fr:reason]]
[[ko:reason]]
[[io:reason]]
[[id:reason]]
[[it:reason]]
[[kk:reason]]
[[hu:reason]]
[[ru:reason]]
[[simple:reason]]
[[fi:reason]]
[[ta:reason]]
[[vi:reason]]
[[tr:reason]]
[[zh:reason]]