{{also|récession}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|la|recessiō}}, from {{m|la|recēdō||recede, retreat}}, from {{m|la|re-||back}} + {{m|la|cēdō||to go}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ɹɪˈsɛʃn̩/}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɛʃən}}
* {{hyphenation|en|re|ces|sion}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The act or an instance of [[receding]] or withdrawing.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=a. 1667|author={{w|Jeremy Taylor}}|chapter=Of Growth in Sin|title=The Whole Works of the Right Rev. Jeremy Taylor|volume=IV|edition=new|location=London|publisher=Longman et al.|year_published=1850|page=520|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?pg=PA520&id=PaFDAQAAIAAJ|passage=}}
#*: {{...}}that light may break forth from the deepest enclosures of darkness, and mercy may rejoice upon the '''recessions''' of justice, and grace may triumph upon the ruin of sin, and God may be glorified in the miracles of our conversion, and the wonders of our preservation and glories of our being saved.
# A period of reduced [[economic]] [[activity]]
#: ''Statisticians often define a '''recession''' as negative real GDP growth during two consecutive [[quarter]]s.
# The [[ceremonial]] [[file out|filing out]] of [[clergy]] and/or choir at the end of a church service.
# The act of [[cede|ceding]] something back.
# {{lb|en|surgery}} {{rfdef|en}}
#* '''2011''', George L. Spaeth, ‎Helen Danesh-Meyer, ‎Ivan Goldberg, ''Ophthalmic Surgery: Principles and Practice E-Book'' (page 467)
#*: Bilateral medial rectus muscle '''recession''' when angle is stable. Controversy exists regarding optimal timing of surgery. If greater than 40 prism diopter esotropia, some recommend bimedial '''recession''' with resection of one lateral rectus muscle.

====Synonyms====
* {{qualifier|receding}} [[withdrawal]]
* {{qualifier|ceremonial}} [[return]] [[procession]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|period of reduced economic activity}} {{l|en|boom}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|recessionary}}
* {{l|en|recessionista}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act or instance of receding}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|terugtrekking}}, {{t+|nl|terugtocht}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taantuminen}}; {{t|fi|vetäytyminen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|נסיגה|f|tr=nesigá}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|paheketanga}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|retragere|f}}, {{t+|ro|recesiune}}, {{t+|ro|recesie|f}}, {{t+|ro|îndepărtare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|period of reduced economic activity}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَرَاجُع}}
* Armenian: {{t-needed|hy}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|recessió|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|衰退|tr=shuāituì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|退去|tr=tuìqù|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|蕭條}}, {{t+|cmn|萧条|tr=xiāotiáo}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|recese|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|recessie}}
* Esperanto: {{t-needed|eo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|taantuma}}, {{t|fi|laskusuhdanne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|récession|f}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rezession|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ύφεση|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מיתון|m|tr=mitún}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|मंदी|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|recesszió}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|recessione|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|不況|tr=ふきょう, fukyō}}, {{t|ja|退去|tr=たいきょ, taikyo}}, {{t+|ja|衰退|tr=すいたい, suitai}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|불황}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Rezessioun|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|paheketanga ohaoha}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|nedgangstid|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|nedgangstid|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|recesja|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|recessão|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|recesiune|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спад|m}}, {{t+|ru|реце́ссия|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recesión|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|recession|c}}, {{t+|sv|lågkonjunktur|c}}
* Thai: {{t-needed|th}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ceremonial filing out of clergy and/or choir at the end of a church service}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|uittredeprocessie}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ristikulkue}}, {{t|fi|ristisaatto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of ceding something back}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|takaisinluovutus}}, {{t|fi|[[takaisin]] [[luovuttaminen]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Economics]]