{{also|recyclé}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{prefix|en|re|cycle}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/ɹəˈsaɪkəl/|/ɹɪˈsaɪkəl/|/ɹiˈsaɪkəl/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-recycle.wav|Audio (RP)}}
* {{rhymes|en|aɪkəl|s=3}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[break down]] and [[reuse]] [[component]] [[material]]s.
#: {{ux|en|Both paper and plastic can be '''recycled'''.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[reuse]] as a whole.
#* '''12 July 2012''', Sam Adams, AV Club ''Ice Age: Continental Drift''
#*: Jokes are '''recycled''' so frequently, it’s as if comedy writing was eating a hole in the ozone layer: If the audience had a nickel for every time a character on one side of the frame says something could never happen as it simultaneously happens on the other side of the frame, they’d have enough to pay the surcharge for the movie’s badly implemented 3-D.
#* {{quote-journal|en|author=Paul Rees|title=Finn Russell masterminds historic Scotland victory over England|url=https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2018/feb/24/scotland-england-six-nations-match-report|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20180422092213/https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2018/feb/24/scotland-england-six-nations-match-report|archivedate=22 April 2018|newspaper={{w|The Guardian}}|location=London|date=24 February 2018|passage=He &#91;[[w:Huw Jones (rugby union)|Huw Jones]]&#93; was hauled down in England’s 22 but, when the ball was quickly recycled, [[w:Finn Russell|[Finn] Russell]]’s miss-pass gave {{w|Sean Maitland}} the room to score in the left corner.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[collect]] or [[place]] in a [[bin]] for recycling.
#* '''1990''', Laurence Sombke, ''The Solution to Pollution: 101 Things You Can Do to Clean Up Your Environment'', Sandy, Oregon: MasterMedia, p 22:
#*: Most cans, bottles, and jars need to be rinsed, so '''recycle''' while you are doing dishes.
#* '''2003''', ''The Complete Guide to Easy Woodworking Projects: 50 Projects You Can Build With Hand Power Tools'', Minneapolis: Creative Publishing International, p 270:
#*: '''Recycling''' is no longer a chore when this convenient '''recycling''' center is a fixture in your kitchen.
#* '''2006''', Elaine Martin Petrowski, ''Design Ideas for Home Storage'', Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Creative Homeowner, p 133:
#*: You'll find many configurations, including models that hide behind a single cabinet door and conceal from one to three bins, so you can '''recycle''' at the same spot where you dispose of trash.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|ergative}} To be recycled.
#: {{ux|en|Sulfur '''recycles''' in the sulfur cycle.}}
# {{lb|en|US}} To {{ll|en|discard}} into a recycling bin.
# {{lb|en|US|military|transitive}} To put (a person) through a course of training again.
#* '''2006''', Barbara Schading, Richard Schading, ''A Civilian's Guide to the U.S. Military'' (page 102)
#*: Recruits cannot fail this portion of their training and become a Marine. Anyone who fails may be “'''recycled'''” through training up to three more times to try again, but will be sent home if success in this program is not achieved.
# {{lb|en|roller derby}} To [[skate]] toward the rear of the engagement zone to maximize the time that an opposing [[jammer]] must spend before returning to the action.
#: {{syn|en|waterfall}}

====Hyponyms====
* {{l|en|downcycle}}
* {{l|en|upcycle}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|recyclable}}
* {{l|en|recyclability}}
* {{l|en|recycle bin}}
* {{l|en|recycling}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|de|recyceln|bor=1|alts=1}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to break down and reuse component materials}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|إِعَادَةْ تَدْوِير|f}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|ريسايكل|m|tr=rīsāykel}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|birziklatu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|преработвам}}
* Burmese: {{t-needed|my}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|reciclar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|循環再造|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|循环再造|tr=xúnhuán zàizào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|recyklovat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|genbruge}}, {{t|da|genanvende}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|recycleren}}, {{t+|nl|hergebruiken}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|recikligi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierrättää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|recycler}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|reciclar}}
* German: {{t+|de|wiederverwerten}}, {{t+|de|recyceln}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανακυκλώνω}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|atoqqippaa}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|endurvinna}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|ricikligar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riciclare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|再生|tr=さいせいする, saisei suru|alt=再生する|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|リサイクル|tr=risaikuru suru|alt=リサイクルする|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|재활용하다}}
* Kurdish:
*: Northern Kurdish: {{t+|kmr|veçerxandin}}, {{t|kmr|veçerxîn}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|рецикли́ра}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|kitar semula}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hangarua}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|r'cyclier}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|بازیافت کردن|tr=bâzyâft kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przetwarzać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|przetworzyć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|reciclar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|recicla}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|рециркули́ровать|impf|pf}}, {{t+|ru|перераба́тывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|перерабо́тать|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|ath-chuairtich}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reciclar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|återvinna}}, {{t+|sv|återanvända}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|paliikot}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|รีไซเคิล}}
* Tibetan: {{t-needed|bo}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|geri dönüşüm}}, {{t|tr|geri dönüştürmek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|переробля́ти|impf|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tái chế}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|ailgylchu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reuse as a whole}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|използвам отново}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|再利用|tr=zaìlìyòng|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t|da|genbruge}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|herbruiken}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|reuzi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierrättää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|recycler}}, {{t+|fr|réutiliser}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|reusar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|wiederverwerten}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|endurnota}}, {{t|is|endurnýta}}
* Ido: {{t|io|reciklar}}
* Italian: {{t|it|riutilizzare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|再利用|tr=さいりようする, sairiyō suru|alt=再利用する|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|reciclar}}, {{t+|pt|reusar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[повто́рно]] [[испо́льзовать]]|impf|pf}}, {{t+|ru|рециркули́ровать|impf|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|ath-chuairtich}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reusar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act of recycling.
#* '''2011''', C. P. Leslie Grady, Jr., Glen T. Daigger, Nancy G. Love, ''Biological Wastewater Treatment, Third Edition'' (page 189)
#*: First, there will be little reaction in the settler so that the concentrations of soluble constituents in the recycle stream are the same as those in the bioreactor. Because all soluble concentrations are the same, the '''recycle''' of soluble constituents around the system has no impact on system performance.
#* '''2020''', Gary Gray, ''MUD on MY BADGE''
#*: If the agency does not approve '''recycle''' of the cadet who failed to qualify, the cadet is sent home and is not hired by the department who sponsored him or her in the academy.

===Further reading===
* {{pedia|recycling}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}

===Verb===
{{head|fr|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|fr|recycler||1|s|pres|indc}}
# {{inflection of|fr|recycler||3|s|pres|indc}}
# {{inflection of|fr|recycler||1|s|pres|subj}}
# {{inflection of|fr|recycler||3|s|pres|subj}}
# {{inflection of|fr|recycler||2|s|impr}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|de|De-recycle.ogg|Audio}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{verb form of|de|recyceln||1|s|pres|;|1//3|s|sub|I|;|s|imp}}