{{also|refît}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|en|re|fit}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|en|ɪt|s=2}}
{{rfp|en}}
{{rfap|en}}
<!--heteronym-->

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The process of having something [[fit]]ted again, repaired or restored.
#: {{ux|en|The ship required a '''refit''' before setting out again.}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|++}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fit]] again; to put back into its place.
#* '''1677''', {{w|Philip Meadows (died 1718)|Philip Meadows}}, ''A Narrative of the Principal Actions Occurring in the Wars Betwixt Sueden and Denmark'', London: A.C. and H. Brome, pp.{{nbsp}}122-123,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A50498.0001.001]</sup>
#*: The truth is they made no great scruple, at least for that one time, to come under the Stern of their Neighbouring Common-wealth, thereby to have better leisure to recollect and '''refit''' the scattered planks and pieces of their own broken Republic.
#* '''1685''', {{w|Charles Cotton}} (translator), ''Essays of {{w|Michel de Montaigne|Michael, seigneur de Montaigne}}'', London: T. Basset and W. Hensman, Volume 1, Chapter 48, p.{{nbsp}}558,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A51181.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I have seen a Man ride with both his feet upon the Saddle, take off his Saddle, and at his return take it up again, '''refit''', and remount it, riding all the while full speed;
#* '''1961''', {{w|Irving Stone}}, ''{{w|The Agony and the Ecstasy (novel)|The Agony and the Ecstasy}}'', Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Book 9, p.{{nbsp}}554,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/agonyecstasy00ston_0]</sup>
#*: Michelangelo took a group outside and in full view of the papal troops '''refitted''' the fallen, shattered stone into the walls.
#* '''1978''', {{w|André Brink}}, ''{{w|Rumours of Rain}}'', Penguin, 1984, p.{{nbsp}}51,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/rumorsofrain00brin]</sup>
#*: {{...}} for the next half-hour I looked on, fascinated, while his large soft hands took apart the entire pump and '''refitted''' the parts.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To prepare for use again; to [[repair]] or [[restore]].
#: ''to '''refit''' a garment; to '''refit''' ships of war''
#* '''1678''', {{w|Thomas Smith (scholar)|Thomas Smith}}, ''Remarks upon the Manners, Religion and Government of the Turks'', London: Moses Pitt, p.{{nbsp}}323,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A60582.0001.001]</sup>
#*: But these [aqueducts] by the sloth and carelesness of the ''Greeks'' and ''Turks'' falling to decay and rendred useless, were restored and '''refitted''' by the Emperor ''Suleiman,'' who was so intent upon this great work, that he said he would go on with it, although the laying every stone stood him in a purse of money {{...}}
#* '''1797''', {{w|Edmund Burke}}, ''A third letter to a Member of the present Parliament: on the proposals for peace with the regicide directory of France'', London: F. and C. Rivington, pp.{{nbsp}}138-139,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004903009.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} all the three theatres have been repeatedly altered, and '''refitted''', and enlarged, to make them capacious of the crowds, that nightly flock to them;
#* {{RQ:Macaulay History of England|volume=4|page=364|chapter=[https://archive.org/details/historyofengland04macauoft Chapter 19]|text=The allied fleet, having been speedily '''refitted''' at Portsmouth, stood out again to sea.}}
#* '''1996''', {{w|George R. R. Martin}}, ''{{w|A Game of Thrones}}'', New York: Random House, 2003, p.{{nbsp}}260,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/gameofthronesele00mart]</sup>
#*: His girth required Donal Noye to take apart a mail hauberk and '''refit''' it with leather panels at the sides.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fit out]] or [[supply]] again (''with'' something).
#* '''1679''', John Goodman, ''The Penitent Pardoned'', London: R. Royston, Chapter 5, p.{{nbsp}}332,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A41445.0001.001]</sup>
#*: For what can be more comfortable then to be asserted from the power of the grave, and rescued from death and mortality, to have our Soul '''refitted''' with Organs, and all the bodily powers awakened again so as to lose nothing by our fall;
#* '''1697''', {{w|John Dryden}} (translator), ''{{w|Virgil}}’s {{w|Aeneid|Aeneis}}'', Book 1, lines 776-777, in ''The Works of Virgil'', London: Jacob Tonson, p.{{nbsp}}224,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A65112.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Permit our Ships a Shelter on your Shoars,
#*: '''Refitted''' from your Woods with Planks and Oars;
# {{lb|en|intransitive|nautical}} To prepare a vessel for use again (''[[e.g.]]'' by replenishing depleted supplies or doing maintenance or repair work); {{qualifier|of a vessel}} to be prepared for use again.
#* '''1669''', uncredited translator, ''Memoires of {{w|Henry II, Duke of Guise|Henry, D. of Guise}}'', London: Henry Herringman, Book 5, p.{{nbsp}}499,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A42325.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I discovered two Gallies making towards ''Nicita,'' whom I saluted with two Cannons, which I levelled and fired my self, so happily, that one of them being shot through between wind and water, was fain to go off to '''refit''', and the other had three or four slaves killed.
#* '''1789''', {{w|Olaudah Equiano}}, ''{{w|The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano}}'', London: for the author, Volume 2, Chapter 9, p.{{nbsp}}117,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004837188.0001.002]</sup>
#*: As soon as we were out of danger, we came to anchor and '''refitted''';
#* '''1847''', {{w|Herman Melville}}, ''{{w|Omoo}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}9,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/4045/4045-h/4045-h.htm]</sup>
#*: A little to leeward of this was a small cluster of islands, where we were going to '''refit''', abounding with delicious fruits {{...}}
#* '''1932''', {{w|Nevil Shute}}, ''{{w|Lonely Road (novel)|Lonely Road}}'', London: Heinemann, Chapter{{nbsp}}6,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20140210/html.php]</sup>
#*: “She’s a cargo ship, isn’t she?” she asked. “Goods, and that?” ¶ I nodded. “She hasn’t got anything in her now. She’s just come up from Falmouth in ballast. She’s come in to '''refit'''.”

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|refitment}}
* {{l|en|refitter}}
* {{l|en|refitting}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=efirt|efrit|freit|treif|trife}}

----

==French==

===Verb===
{{head|fr|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|fr|refaire||3|s|phis}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|frite}}
* {{l|fr|rétif}}