==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɹiˈfɹɛʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-refresh.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛʃ|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} ''[[refrescher]]'' (French: [[rafraîchir]])

===Verb===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-verb|es}}

# To [[renew]] or [[revitalize]].
#: ''Sleep '''refreshes''' the body and the mind.''
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} To [[reload]] a [[document]] and show any new changes, especially a [[webpage]] on the [[internet]].
#* '''2007''', Beth Harbison, ''Shoe Addicts Anonymous''
#*: She '''refreshed''' the page. She was still the high bidder. Good.
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} To cause (a [[web browser]] or similar software) to refresh its display.
#* '''2007''', Philip C Plumlee, ''Test Driven Ajax (on Rails)''
#*: You can save your code, '''refresh''' your browser, and see a change instantly. This simple trick turns a lowly web browser into a development environment {{...}}
# To perform the [[periodic]] [[energize|energizing]] required to maintain the contents of computer [[memory]], the display [[luminance]] of a computer screen, etc.<!--Or TV screen, or portable DVD player, or... -->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to renew or revitalize}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|جدد|tr=jáddada|sc=Arab}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|mpruspitedzu}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|提神|tr=tíshén|sc=Hans}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|občerstvit}}, {{t|cs|osvěžit}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|verfrissen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|virkistää}}, {{t|fi|piristää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rafraîchir}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|განახლება|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|erfrischen}}, {{t|de|auffrischen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανανεώνω|tr=ananeóno|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felüdít}}, {{t+|hu|felfrissít}}
* Italian: {{t|it|rinfrescare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|爽やか|tr=さわやかにする, sawayaka ni suru|alt=爽やかにする|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|새롭게|alt=새롭게 하다|sc=Kore}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|erfrëschen}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tāmata}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|odświeżyć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|refrescar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|împrospăta}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|освежать|impf|tr=osvežátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|обновлять|impf|tr=obnovljátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|refrescar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|uppfriska}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reload a document}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|刷新|tr=shuāxīn|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|een webpagina herladen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|päivittää}}, {{t|fi|[[ladata]] [[uudelleen]]}}
* German: {{t+|de|aktualisieren}}, {{t|de|neu laden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανανεώνω|tr=ananeóno|sc=Grek}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|リフレッシュ|tr=rifuresshu suru|alt=リフレッシュする|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|再読み込み|tr=さいよみこみする, saiyomikomi suru|alt=再読み込みする|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|更新|alt=更新する|sc=Jpan|tr=kōshin suru}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обновлять|impf|tr=obnovljátʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: to cause to refresh a display}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|päivittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανανεώνω|tr=ananeóno|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to perform periodic energizing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|virkistää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανανεώνω|tr=ananeóno|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[fresher#English|fresher]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# The [[periodic]] [[energize|energizing]] required to maintain the contents of computer [[memory]], the display [[luminance]] of a computer screen, etc.<!--Or TV screen, or portable DVD player, or... -->
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} The update of a display (in a [[web browser]] or similar software) to show the latest version of the data.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|update of a display}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|päivitys}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обновление|n|tr=obnovlénije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[cy:refresh]]
[[et:refresh]]
[[fa:refresh]]
[[fr:refresh]]
[[gl:refresh]]
[[ko:refresh]]
[[hy:refresh]]
[[io:refresh]]
[[it:refresh]]
[[kn:refresh]]
[[ku:refresh]]
[[hu:refresh]]
[[ml:refresh]]
[[my:refresh]]
[[ja:refresh]]
[[pl:refresh]]
[[simple:refresh]]
[[sv:refresh]]
[[ta:refresh]]
[[te:refresh]]
[[vi:refresh]]
[[zh:refresh]]