{{also|réfrigérant}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{der|en|la|refrīgerāns}}, present participle of {{m|la|refrīgerō||I cool, I refresh}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
{{wikipedia}}

# A substance used in a heat cycle that undergoes a [[phase]] change between gas and liquid to allow the cooling, as in refrigerators, air conditioners, etc.
# That which makes [[cool]] or [[cold]], such as a [[medicine]] for [[allay]]ing the [[symptom]]s of [[fever]].
#* '''1783''', {{w|Hugh Blair}}, ''Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres,'' Dublin: Whitestone ''et al.,'' Volume 2, Lecture 32, p.{{nbsp}}403,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004786433.0001.002]</sup>
#*: {{...}} never give warning that you are about to be pathetic; and call upon your hearers, as is sometimes done, to follow you in the attempt. This almost never fails to prove a '''refrigerant''' to passion.
#* '''1869''', {{w|Oliver Wendell Holmes}}, “Cinders from the Ashes” in ''Pages from an Old Volume of Life,'' Boston: Houghton, Mifflin, 1883, p.{{nbsp}}245,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/pagesfromoldvolu00holm]</sup>
#*: {{...}} taking a blue and white soda-powder, [she] mingled the same in water, and encouraged me to drink the result. It might be a specific for seasickness, but it was not for home-sickness. The fiz was a mockery, and the saline '''refrigerant''' struck a colder chill to my despondent heart.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|substance undergoing phase change}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|制冷劑}}, {{t|cmn|制冷剂|tr=zhìlěngjì}}, {{t+|cmn|冷凍劑}}, {{t+|cmn|冷冻剂|tr=lěngdòngjì}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kylmäaine}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მაცივებელი}}, {{t|ka|მაგრილებელი}}, {{t|ka|მაცივებელი აგენტი}}, {{t|ka|მაგრილებელი აგენტი}}, {{t|ka|სამაცივრო აგენტი}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|kjølemedium|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|kjølemedium|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|that which makes cool}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|охладител|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|viilentäjä}} {{q|generally}}; {{t+|fi|kuumelääke}} {{q|medicine}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|coolant}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} That [[cool]]s or [[freeze]]s; providing [[relief]] from heat or [[fever]].
#* '''1627''', {{w|Francis Bacon}}, ''Sylua Syluarum: or A Naturall Historie in Ten Centuries,'' London: William Lee, VIII. Century, p.{{nbsp}}204,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A01552.0001.001]</sup>
#*: This ''Experiment'' may be transferred vnto the ''Cure'' of ''Gangrenes,'' either Comming of themselues, or induced by too much Applying of ''Opiates:'' Wherein you must beware of ''Dry Heat,'' and resort to Things that are '''''Refrigerant''','' with an Inward ''Warmth,'' and ''Vertue'' of Cherishing.
#* '''1788''', John Hawkesworth, “Laudes Dargelli, or, Verses on the {{w|River Dargle|Dargle}}” in ''The Poetical Works of John Hawkesworth,'' Dublin, p.{{nbsp}}25,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004847006.0001.000]</sup>
#*: Here on a bank, '''refrigerant''' seat,
#*: Screen’d from the Sun’s o’ercoming heat,
#*: Some stretch’d at ease the hours employ,
#*: In Bacchus’s unbounded joy,
#* '''1859''', {{w|Richard Francis Burton}}, ''The Lake Regions of Central Equatorial Africa,'' Journal of the Royal Geographical Society of London, Volume 29, Chapter 2, pp.{{nbsp}}54-55,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/jstor-1798278]</sup>
#*: They employ the coco-nut extensively; {{...}} This immoderate use of the fruit is, according to the people, far from wholesome: it is considered, by its '''refrigerant''' properties, to cause rheumatic pains {{...}}
#* {{RQ:zhx-teo:Fielde Dictionary|en|{{l|zh||兩|tr=líang}}|350}}
#*: {{quote|en|[He] is robust and can safely take '''refrigerant''' food.}}

----

==Catalan==

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[coolant]], {{l|en|refrigerant}}

===Verb===
{{head|ca|verb form}}

# {{ca-verb form of|t=pres|m=ptc|refrigerar}}

{{c|ca|Liquids}}

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|refrīgerant}}

# {{inflection of|la|refrīgerō||3|p|pres|actv|indc}}