{{also|regulär}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|xno}} {{term|reguler}}, {{etyl|frm}} {{term|reguler}}, {{term|regulier}}, and their source, {{etyl|la}} {{term|regularis|rēgulāris|continuing rules for guidance|lang=la}}, from {{term|regula|rēgula|rule|lang=la}}, ultimately from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{recons|reg-||move in a straight line|lang=ine-pro}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɹɛ.ɡjᵿ.lə/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"r\Eg.j@.l@(r\)/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈɹɛ.ɡjə.ləɹ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"r\Eg.j@.l@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-regular.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{Christianity}} Bound by [[religious]] rule; belonging to a monastic or religious [[order]] (often as opposed to {{term|secular}}). {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''2002''', {{w|Colin Jones (historian)|Colin Jones}}, ''The Great Nation'', Penguin 2003, p. 201:
#*: A quarter of a million strong in 1680, the clergy was only half as large in 1789. The unpopular '''regular''' clergy were the worst affected.
# Having a constant [[pattern]]; showing [[evenness]] of form or appearance. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
# {{geometry|of a [[polygon]] or a [[polyhedron]]}} Having all sides of the same length, and all (corresponding) angles of the same size. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# Demonstrating a consistent set of [[rule]]s; showing order, evenness of operation or occurrence. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''2011''', {{w|AL Kennedy}}, ''The Guardian'', 12 Apr 2011:
#*: April may be the cruellest month, but I am planning to render it civilised and to take my antibiotics in a '''regular''' manner.
# {{context|now|_|rare}} Well-behaved, [[orderly]]; [[restrained]] (of a lifestyle etc.). {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# Happening at constant (especially short) [[interval]]s. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''He made '''regular''' visits to go see his mother.''
# {{grammar|of a verb, plural, etc}} Following a set or common pattern; according to the normal rules of a given language. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''The verb "to walk" is '''regular'''.''
# {{context|chiefly|_|US}} Having the expected characteristics or appearances; [[normal]], [[ordinary]], [[standard]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# {{context|chiefly|_|military}} Permanently organised; being part of a set professional body of troops. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# Having [[bowel movements]] or menstrual [[period]]s at constant intervals in the expected way. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''Maintaining a high-fibre diet keeps you '''regular'''.''
# {{colloquial}} [[exemplary|Exemplary]]; excellent [[example]] of; [[utter]], [[downright]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#: ''a '''regular''' genius''
#: ''a '''regular''' John Bull''
# {{snowboarding}} Riding with the [[left]] foot forward.
# {{analysis}} {{context|not comparable}} {{context|of a Borel measure}} That every set in its [[domain]] is both [[outer regular]] and [[inner regular]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|with constant frequency}} [[uniform]]
* {{sense|normal}} [[normal]]
* {{sense|grammar}} [[weak]] (verbs)
* {{sense|frequent}} [[steady]]

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|with constant frequency}} [[irregular]]
* {{sense|normal}} [[irregular]]
* {{sense|obeying rules}} [[irregular]]
* {{sense|grammar}} [[irregular]], [[strong]] (verbs)
* {{sense|snowboarding}} [[goofy]]

====Related terms====
{{rel-top4|Terms which are etymologically related to "regular"}}
* [[irregular]]
* [[rail]]
* [[régime]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[regimen]]
* [[regulate]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[regulation]]
* [[regularity]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[regularly]]
* [[rule]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|with constant frequency}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عادي]]}} {{IPAchar|(ʕādi)}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:  [[常]] ([[cháng]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pravidelný|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|regelmæssig}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|regelmatig}}, {{t|nl|regelmatige}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|regula}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säännöllinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|régulier}}
* German: {{t+|de|regulär}}, {{t+|de|regelmäßig}}
* Greek: {{t|el|συχνός|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συχνή|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συχνό|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|רגיל}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szabályos}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|atur|alt=beraturan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|rialta}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|regolare}}
* Japanese: [[規則]] ([[きそく]], kisoku), [[規則]][[動詞]] ([[きそく]][[どうし]], kisoku-dōshi)
* Jèrriais: {{tø|roa-jer|rédgulyi}}
* Korean: [[정식의]] (jeongsik-ui)
* Latin: {{t-|la|rectus}}
* Lojban: {{t-|jbo|dikni}}
* Polish: [[regularny]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|regular}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|регулярный|tr=reguljárnyj}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|cunbhalach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|regular}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|regelbunden}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|düzenli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|normal}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[عادي]]}} {{IPAchar|(ʕādi)}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin:  [[平常]] ([[píngcháng]])
* Czech: {{t+|cs|normální}},  {{t+|cs|obyčejný}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|almindelig}},  {{t-|da|normal}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gewoon}}, {{t+|nl|gewone}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säännöllinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|normal}}, {{t+|de|gewöhnlich}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κανονικός|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|κανονική|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|κανονικό|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|κοινός|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|κοινή|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|κοινό|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συνηθισμένος|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συνηθισμένη|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συνηθισμένο|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|rendes}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|일반|tr=ilban|sc=Kore}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obeying rules}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|规律|alt=有规律的|tr=[[yǒu guīlǜ]] [[de]]|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|regelmæssig}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|regelmatig}}, {{t|nl|regelmatige}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säännöllinen}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|rialta}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|legitimus}}, {{t-|la|legitima}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|规则变化|alt=规则变化的|tr=[[guīzé]] [[biànhuà]] [[de]]|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pravidelný|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|regelmæssig}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|regelmatig}}, {{t|nl|regelmatige}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säännöllinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|régulier}}
* German: {{t+|de|regelmäßig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|rialta}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|legitimus}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|regelméisseg}}
* Polish: [[regularny]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|regular}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|riaghailteach}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|regular}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|düzenli}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|frequent, steady}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|经常|alt=经常的|tr=[[jīngcháng]] [[de]]|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fast}},  {{t-|da|regelmæssig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vast}}, {{t+|nl|vaste}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|regula}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säännöllinen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|συχνός|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συχνή|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συχνό|n|sc=Grek}}
* Polish: [[regularny]]
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|cunbhalach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A member of the British Army (as opposed to a member of the [[Territorial Army]] or [[reserve|Reserve]]).
# A [[frequent]], [[routine]] visitor to an establishment.
#: ''Bartenders usually know their '''regulars''' by name.''
# A frequent [[customer]], [[client]] or [[business]] [[partner]].
#: ''This gentleman was one of the architect's '''regulars'''.''
# {{Canada}} A coffee with one cream and one sugar.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|member of the British Army}}
* {{trreq|cmn}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|routine visitor}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|stamgast|m}}
* Finnish: [[vakioasiakas]], [[kanta-asiakas]]
* French: {{t+|fr|habitué|m}},  {{t+|fr|habituée|f}},  {{t+|fr|habitués|m|p}},  {{t+|fr|habituées|f|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Stammgast]] {{m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cliente|m|f}}
* {{trreq|cmn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|frequent customer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kanta-asiakas}}, {{t+|fi|asiakas}}
* Greek: {{t|el|τακτικός|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|τακτική|f|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|τακτικό|n|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|cmn}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Asturian==

===Adjective===
{{ast-adj-mf|pl=regulares}}

# {{l|en|regular}}
# [[fine]], [[OK]], [[average]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|ast|regularidá}}

===Verb===
{{ast-verb-ar|regul}}

# to [[regulate]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Adjective===
{{pt-adj|regul|ar}}

# [[#English|regular]]
# [[average]]

===Verb===
{{pt-verb|regul|ar}}

# to [[regulate]]
# to [[tune]] (an engine)
# to [[set]] (a watch, clock)

====Conjugation====
{{pt-conj|regul|ar}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top}}
* [[regulagem]]
* [[regularização]]
* [[regularizar]]
* [[regulador]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[regra]]
* [[regularidade]]
* [[regulamento]]
{{rel-bottom}}

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|pl=regulares}}

# [[#English|regular]], [[steady]], [[even]].
# [[fair]], [[fairly]] good, [[average]]
# [[common]], [[ordinary]], [[middling]], [[so-so]]
# {{grammar|lang=es}} [[#English|regular]]

===Verb===
{{es-verb|regul|ar}}

# to [[regulate]]
# to [[control]]
# to [[adjust]]
# to [[put]] in [[order]]

====Conjugation====
{{es-conj-ar|regul}}

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
* [[regla]]
* [[regulador]]
* [[regularidad]]
{{mid2}}
* [[regularización]]
* [[regularizar]]
* [[regulativo]]
{{bottom}}

[[ar:regular]]
[[ca:regular]]
[[cs:regular]]
[[cy:regular]]
[[de:regular]]
[[et:regular]]
[[el:regular]]
[[es:regular]]
[[fr:regular]]
[[gl:regular]]
[[ko:regular]]
[[hr:regular]]
[[io:regular]]
[[id:regular]]
[[it:regular]]
[[kn:regular]]
[[ku:regular]]
[[li:regular]]
[[hu:regular]]
[[mg:regular]]
[[ml:regular]]
[[my:regular]]
[[nl:regular]]
[[no:regular]]
[[pl:regular]]
[[pt:regular]]
[[ru:regular]]
[[simple:regular]]
[[fi:regular]]
[[sv:regular]]
[[ta:regular]]
[[te:regular]]
[[tr:regular]]
[[vi:regular]]
[[zh:regular]]