==English==

===Etymology 1===
First attested ''circa'' 1425: from the Classical {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|relegatus|relēgātus|lang=la}}, the perfect passive participle of {{term|relego|relēgō|lang=la}} ² (“I dispatch”, “I banish”).

====Alternative forms====
{{top2}}
* {{l|enm|relegat}} {{defdate|15ᵗʰ C.}}
{{mid2}}
* {{l|sco|religait}} {{qual|Scots, ''{{defdate|16ᵗʰ C.}}''}}
{{bottom}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|rĕʹlĭgət}}, {{IPA|/ˈɹɛlɪɡət/}}, {{SAMPA|/"r\ElIg@t/}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{obsolete|_|except|_|archaic|past participial}} [[relegated|Relegated]]; [[exile|exiled]].

====References====
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50300176 †relegate, ''adj.'']</span>” listed in the ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]]'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; June 2010]

===Etymology 2===
First attested ''circa'' 1550: from the Classical {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|relegatus|relēgātus|banished person”, “exile|lang=la}}, the nominative singular masculine substantive form of {{term||relēgātus}}, the perfect passive participle of {{term|relego|relēgō|lang=la}} ² (“I dispatch”, “I banish”).

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|relagate}} {{defdate|16ᵗʰ C.}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|rĕʹlĭgət}}, {{IPA|/ˈɹɛlɪɡət/}}, {{SAMPA|/"r\ElIg@t/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Roman|_|history|obsolete}} A [[person]] who has been [[banish]]ed from [[proximity]] to [[Rome]] for a set [[time]], but without losing his [[civil]] rights.

====References====
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://ed2.oed.com/cgi/display/00201958 †ˈrelegate, ''n.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [2ⁿᵈ Ed.; 1989]
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50201954 †relegate, ''n.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; Dec. 2009]

===Etymology 3===
First attested in 1561: from {{term||relēgāt-}}, the perfect passive participial stem of {{term|relego|relēgō|lang=la}} ² (“I dispatch”, “I banish”).

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|religate}} {{defdate|17ᵗʰ C.}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|rĕʹlĭgāt}}, {{IPA|/ˈɹɛlɪɡeɪt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"r\ElIgeIt/}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|relegates|relegating|relegated}}

# [[exile|Exile]], [[banish]], [[remove]], or send away.
## {{transitive|done to a person}} Exile or banish ''to'' a particular place.
## {{reflexive|obsolete|rare}} Remove (oneself) to a [[distance]] ''from'' something or somewhere.
## {{transitive|Roman|_|history|done to a person}} Banish ''from [[proximity]]'' to [[Rome]] for a set time; cf. [[relegate#Etymology 2|''relegate'' ²]].
## {{transitive|figurative}} Remove or send to a place far away.
# {{transitive|in extended use}} [[consign|Consign]] or [[assign]].
## Consign (a person or thing) ''to'' a place, [[position]], or [[role]] of [[obscurity]], [[insignificance]], [[oblivion]], or (especially) [[inferiority]].
## Assign (a thing) ''to'' an [[appropriate]] place or [[situation]] based on [[appraisal]] or [[classification]].
## {{sport|especially|soccer}} [[transfer|Transfer]] (a sports team) to a lower-[[rank]]ing [[league]] [[division]].
# {{transitive}} [[refer|Refer]] or [[submit]].
## Refer (a point of [[contention]]) ''to'' an [[authority]] in [[deference]] to the [[judgment]] thereof.
## Submit (something) ''to'' someone else for [[appropriate]] action thereby; cf. {{term|delegate|lang=en}}.
## {{context|now|_|rare}} Submit or refer (someone) ''to'' someone or something else ''for'' some [[reason]] or [[purpose]].

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|relegated}}, {{l|en|relegating}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|relegation}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to exile}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|karkottaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|ссылать}} (1.1)
* Spanish: {{t|es|relegar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consign}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alentaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|низводить}} (2.1)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to refer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|siirtää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: {{t+|fr|reléguer}}
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: {{t|hu|száműz}}, {{t|hu|leminősít}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://ed2.oed.com/cgi/display/00201959 relegate, ''v.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [2ⁿᵈ Ed.; 1989]
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50201955 relegate, ''v.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; Mar. 2010]

===Anagrams===
* [[regelate#English|regelate]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Italian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/re.leˈɡa.te/|lang=it}}
* {{hyphenation|re|le|gà|te}}

===Verb===
'''relegate'''

# {{form of|[[second-person|Second-person]] [[plural]] [[present tense]]|relegare|lang=Italian}}
# {{form of|Second-person plural [[imperative]]|relegare|lang=Italian}}
# {{form of|[[feminine|Feminine]] plural|relegato}}

[[Category:Italian past participle forms]]
[[Category:Italian verb forms]]

[[fr:relegate]]
[[io:relegate]]
[[kn:relegate]]
[[vi:relegate]]
[[zh:relegate]]