{{also|rentboy}}

==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|rentboy}}

===Etymology===
From {{m|en|rent||to [[lease]], [[let out]]}} + {{m|en|boy}}, a diminutive term for {{m|en|man}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|En-us-ncalif-rentboy.ogg|Audio (US, Northern California)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|British|informal}} A [[male]] [[prostitute]], [[typically]] [[young]] and [[gay]].
#* '''1990''', ''[[w:House of Cards (UK TV show)|House of Cards]]'', Season 1, Episode 4:
#*: ''Francis Urquhart:'' Got anything on him?<br>''Tim Stamper:'' There was a whiff of scandal about ten years ago.<br>''Francis Urquhart:'' '''Rent boy'''. In a train. To Red Hill. Yes. Wanted to sell his story but we bought it and [[hush up|hushed]] him [[hush up|up]]. Be ungentlemanly to bring that up. A man's [[private life]] should be private.<br>''Tim Stamper:'' On the other hand, getting [[suck off|sucked off]] in [[second class]] is hardly [[prime ministerial]] [[behavior|behaviour]].<br>''Francis Urquhart:'' Yes, you have a point there.
#* '''1992'''. Donald James West, Buz De Villiers, "Male prostitution", [http://books.google.com/books?id=JAYeUUoqw20C&pg=PA93 Page 93]:
#*: ''An Irishman came up to him, bought him a drink, asked him if he was a '''rent boy''', and agreed to give £40 for coming back''.
#* '''2007'''. John Patrick. "Dangerous Boys, Rent Boys", [http://books.google.com/books?id=GX_S4Ol84fYC&pg=PA12 Page 12]:
#*: ''Just then, a '''rent boy''' with perfect white teeth and a babyface flashed me one of those unforgettable Thai smiles''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|young male prostitute}}
* Arabic: {{t-needed|ar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|男妓|tr=nánjì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|妓男|tr=jìnán|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|鴨子|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|鸭子|tr=yāzi|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|MB|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-needed|cs}}
* Dutch: {{t-needed|nl}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[maksullinen]] [[poika]]}}
* French: {{t+|fr|giton|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Callboy|m}}, {{t+|de|Gigolo|m}}, {{t+|de|Stricher|m}} {{qualifier|pejorativ}}
* Hindi: {{t-needed|hi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-needed|it}}
* Japanese: {{t-needed|ja}}
* Korean: {{t-needed|ko}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acompanhante de luxo|m|f}}, {{t+|pt|michê|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|проститу́т|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|taxi boy|m}}, {{t|es|taxi boys|m-p}}, {{t+|es|putito|m}}, {{t|es|putitos|m-p}}, {{t|es|lolito|m}}, {{t|es|lolitos|m-p}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|eskortpojke|c}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Prostitution]]