==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-report.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{IPA|/ɻiːˈpɔː(r)t/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɔː(r)t}}
* {{a|Tasmanian}} {{IPA|/ɻəˈpɔː/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A piece of information describing, or an account of certain events given or presented to someone.
#: ''A '''report''' by the telecommunications ministry showed that the phone network has a severe capacity problem.''
# (''ballistics'') The [[sharp]], loud sound from a [[gun]] or explosion.
#* '''1883:''' [[w:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''[[w:Treasure Island|Treasure Island]]''
#*: ...a pistol-shot, flash and '''report''', came from the hedge-side.

====Derived terms====
* [[on report]]
* [[report card]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|information describing events}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[rapport]] {{n}}, [[verslag]] {{n}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[تقرير]]}} (taqrīr)
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|報告|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|报告|tr=bàogào|sc=Hani}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: {{tø|crh|raport|xs=Crimean Tatar}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zpráva|f}}, {{t-|cs|hlášení|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rapport|n}}, {{t+|nl|verslag|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|raporto|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[selvitys]], [[selostus]], [[raportti]]
* French: {{t+|fr|rapport|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bericht|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αναφορά|f|tr=anaforá}},  {{t+|el|έκθεση|f|tr=ékθesi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|jelentés}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|laporan|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rapporto|m}}
* Japanese: [[報告]] (hōkoku)
* Korean: [[보고]] (bogo)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|raport|m}}, {{t|pl|sprawozdanie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|relatório|m}}, {{t+|pt|relato|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|доклад|m|tr=doklád}},  {{t|ru|отчёт|m|tr=otčót}},  {{t+|ru|сообщение|n|tr=soobščénije}},  {{t|ru|рапорт|m|tr=ráport}},  {{t|ru|сводка|f|tr=svódka}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|poročilo|n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|informe|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ripoti|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rapport|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(ballistics) the sharp, loud sound from a gun or explosion}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|výbuch|m}}, {{t-|cs|výstřel|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|εκπυρσοκρότηση|f|tr=ekpirsokrótisi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To relate details of an event or incident.
#: ''This was our correspondent '''reporting''' from Baghdad, Iraq.''
# {{transitive}} To notify of.
#: ''Riots have been '''reported''' from a remote province of the country.''
# {{intransitive}} To be accountable.
#: ''The financial director '''reports''' to the CEO''
# {{intransitive|military}} To show up or appear at an appointed time; to present oneself.

====Derived terms====
* [[underreport]]
* [[reporter]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|account}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|informe}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to relate event}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[rapporteer]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[وصف]]}} (wáSafa),  {{t|ar|أبلغ|tr='ablagha}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[informar]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|報告|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|报告|tr=bàogào|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|彙報|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|汇报|tr=huìbào|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: [[berichten]], [[rapporteren]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|selvittää}}, {{t-|fi|selostaa}}, {{t-|fi|raportoida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rapporter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|berichten}}, {{t+|de|melden}}; ''(to report sb. for sth. [to the police])'' {{t+|de|anzeigen}}, ''(Switzerland, Liechtenstein)'' {{t+|de|verzeigen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|jelent}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riferire}}
* Japanese: [[報告]]する (hōkoku suru),  {{t|ja|報ずる|tr=hōzuru}}
* Korean: [[보고하다]] (bogohada)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|relatar}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|imperfective}} {{t|ru|сообщать|tr=soobščát’}},  {{qualifier|perfective}} {{t|ru|сообщить|tr=soobščít’}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|informar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|rapportera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|appear or present oneself}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[presentar-se]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afkomen}}, {{t+|nl|verschijnen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ilmoittautua}}
* German: [[sich]] [[melden]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[apresentar-se]]
* Russian: [[являться]] (javlát’s’a)
* Spanish: {{t-|es|presentarse}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to notify}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|notificar}}, {{t-|ca|fer saber}}, {{t+|ca|informar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bekendmaken}}, {{t+|nl|melden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ilmoittaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|melden}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|notificar}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|notificar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be accountable}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[ser responsable]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zodpovídat se}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|raportoida}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: rendre des {{t+|fr|comptes}}
* Spanish: [[ser responsable]], [[rendir cuentas]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[memberi laporan]], [[melaporkan]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|eoprrt}}
* [[perrot#English|perrot]], [[Perrot#English|Perrot]]
* [[porter#English|porter]]
* [[proter#English|proter]]

[[et:report]]
[[el:report]]
[[es:report]]
[[fa:report]]
[[fr:report]]
[[ko:report]]
[[io:report]]
[[id:report]]
[[it:report]]
[[ku:report]]
[[lo:report]]
[[hu:report]]
[[ml:report]]
[[nl:report]]
[[ja:report]]
[[pl:report]]
[[pt:report]]
[[ru:report]]
[[simple:report]]
[[fi:report]]
[[ta:report]]
[[te:report]]
[[th:report]]
[[tr:report]]
[[vi:report]]
[[zh:report]]