==English==
{{wikipedia|lang=en}}
===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|res publica|rēs publica|lang=la}}. Compare {{term|republic}}.

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɹeɪz ˈpʊblɪkə/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# The common [[good]], as identified with the wider [[state]]; the [[commonwealth]], the [[body politic]].
#*'''1997''', Herwig Wolfram, ''The Roman Empire and its Germanic Peoples'', p. 190:
#*:At the same time the Roman-barbarian regna distinguished themselves from the '''res publica'''.
#*'''2002''', {{w|Colin Jones (historian)|Colin Jones}}, ''The Great Nation'', Penguin 2003, p. 402:
#*:There was no question as yet of republicanism being on the agenda, other than in the old, weak sense of a '''''res publica''''' or commonwealth to which both ruler and ruled owed allegiance.

----

==Latin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|la|respublica|rēspublica}}

===Etymology===
From {{term|res|rēs|lang=la|thing”, “affair}} + {{term|publica|publica|public|lang=la}}, the feminine form of {{term|publicus|publicus|public|lang=la}}. Literally meaning "public thing".

===Noun===
{{la-noun|rēs publica|rei publicae|reī publicae|f|fifth}}

# [[republic]], [[commonwealth]], the [[state]]
#* {{RQ:Cicero Catiline}}
#*: ''O di immortales, ubinam gentium sumus? Quam '''rem publicam''' habemus? In qua urbe vivimus?.''
#*:: O ye immortal gods, where on earth are we? In what city are we living? What is the '''government''' we have?
#: ''Magna fides in multis civibus huius '''rei publicae''' nunc inveniri potest.''
#:: Great fidelity can now be found in many citizens of this '''commonwealth'''.
#: ''Quis jussit illam '''rem publicam''' servitute liberari?''
#:: Who ordered that '''republic''' to be liberated from slavery?
#: ''Ubi tyrannus est, ibi plane est nulla '''res publica'''.''
#:: Where there is a tyrant, there is clearly no '''republic'''.
#: ''Contra alias manus malorum civium eaedem res parabuntur; '''rem publicam''' defendemus et isti cito discedent.''
#:: These things will be procured in spite of the bands of bad citizens; we will defend the '''republic''' and those men will depart quickly.
#: ''Hanc '''rem publicam''' salvam esse volumus.''
#:: We wish this '''republic''' to be safe.

====Inflection====
{{Latin-decl
|nom-sg={{l|la|res publica|rēs publica}}
|nom-pl={{l|la|res publicae|rēs publicae}}

|gen-sg={{l|la|rei publicae|reī publicae}}
|gen-pl={{l|la|rerum publicarum|rērum publicārum}}

|dat-sg={{l|la|rei publicae|reī publicae}}
|dat-pl={{l|la|rebus publicis|rēbus publicīs}}

|acc-sg={{l|la|rem publicam|rem publicam}}
|acc-pl={{l|la|res publicas|rēs publicās}}

|abl-sg={{l|la|re publica|rē publicā}}
|abl-pl={{l|la|rebus publicis|rēbus publicīs}}

|voc-sg={{l|la|res publicae|rēs publica}}
|voc-pl={{l|la|res publicae|rēs publicae}}
}}

====Descendants====
* Russian: {{l|ru|республика}}

[[da:res publica]]
[[de:res publica]]
[[et:res publica]]
[[es:res publica]]
[[fr:res publica]]
[[ko:res publica]]
[[la:res publica]]
[[lt:res publica]]
[[mg:res publica]]
[[ja:res publica]]
[[pt:res publica]]
[[zh:res publica]]