{{wikipedia|Respect (disambiguation)}}
==English==

{{rank|greatest|property|started|742|respect|that's|Christian|food}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɹɪˈspɛkt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-respects.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛkt|-ɛkt]]
*Hyphenation: re·spect

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[admiration]] for a person or entity because of perceived [[merit]]
#:''He is an intellectual giant, and I have great '''respect''' for him.''
# [[regard]] for the rights of others; [[tolerance]]
# ''(always plural):'' Polite [[greetings]], often offered as [[condolences]] after a death.
#:''The mourners paid their last '''respects''' to the deceased poet.''
# a particular [[aspect]] of something
#:''With '''respect''' to his personal hygene, I suggest that he shower more often.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|admiration for a person or entity because of perceived merit}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[احترم]]}} {{IPAchar|(eħirám)}}
*Chinese: [[尊重]] (zūnzhòng)
*Czech: [[respekt]] {{m}}, [[úcta]] {{f}}
*Dutch: respect {{m}}, [[achting]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[kunnioitus]]
ggfdfgfdg]]
*Italian: [[rispetto]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[尊敬]] (そんけい, sonkei)
*Korean: [[존중]] (jonjung)
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ڕێز]]}}
*Polish: [[respekt]] {{m}}, [[szacunek]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[respeito]] {{m}}
*Romanian: respect
*Russian: [[уважение]] (uvažénije) {{n}}
*Spanish: [[respecto]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[respekt]] {{c}}, [[aktning]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[గౌరవం]] (gauravam)
*Welsh: [[parch]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tolerance}}
*Czech: [[ohled]] {{m}}
*German: [[Respekt]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Finnish: [[kunnioitus]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Polite greetings}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ڕێزوسڵاو]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a particular aspect of something}}
*Czech: [[hledisko]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
*(''regard for others, tolerance''): [[disrespect]]

====Related terms====
*[[in many respects]]
*[[with respect to]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# to have respect for.
#:''She is an intellectual giant, and I '''respect''' her greatly.''
# to have regard for the rights of others.
#:''I '''respect''' your right to hold this belief although I think it is nonsense.''
# to consent to abide by an agreement.
#:''They failed to '''respect''' the treaty they had signed, and invaded.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to have respect for}}
*Czech: [[respektovat]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Finnish: [[kunnioittaa]]
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ڕێز گرتن]]}}
*Swedish: att ha [[respekt]] för
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have regard for the rights of others}}
*Czech: [[brát ohled]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Finnish: [[kunnioittaa]]
*Swedish: att [[respektera]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consent to abide by an agreement}}
*Czech: [[uznávat]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Finnish: [[kunnioittaa]]
*Swedish: att [[respektera]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
*[[dis]]<!-- or can it also be spelled "diss"? -->
*[[disrespect]]

====Usage notes====
It is possible that a confusion between the different meanings of ''respect'' affects the attitudes of people and organizations. For example, [[freedom of religion]] implies that we must respect '''the right of anyone''' to believe whatever they wish, to act within the law in accordance with their beliefs, and not to be discriminated against on account of their beliefs. However, the use of the word ''respect'' seems to have shifted our attitudes towards the quite different notion that we must behave respectfully towards their beliefs, and not criticise them. This is a restriction on [[freedom of speech]], and is inherently hypocritical&mdash;anyone with any view on religion must necessarily believe that those who believe differently are deluded, although their rights must be respected.

The distinction between the two meanings can be shown by paraphrasing Voltaire: "I totally disrespect what you say, but absolutely respect your right to say it."

====Derived terms====
*[[respectability]]
*[[respectable]]
*[[respected]]
*[[disrespect]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|Fr-Respect-fr-Paris.ogg|Audio (FR)}}

===Noun===
'''respect''' {{m}} (''plural'' '''respects''')

# Respect.

[[ar:respect]]
[[de:respect]]
[[et:respect]]
[[fa:respect]]
[[fr:respect]]
[[io:respect]]
[[it:respect]]
[[kk:respect]]
[[hu:respect]]
[[ja:respect]]
[[ru:respect]]
[[simple:respect]]
[[fi:respect]]
[[sv:respect]]
[[ta:respect]]
[[te:respect]]
[[vi:respect]]
[[tr:respect]]
[[zh:respect]]