==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{m|fr|retranchement}}, {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|retrenchemant}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɹɪˈtɹentʃ.mənt/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A [[reduction]] or [[curtailment]]; often referring to a [[business]] or [[government]] [[agency]] [[cut back|cutting back]] [[operation]]s or [[lay off|laying off]] [[workers]].
#* '''2018''', ''The Observer'', [https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/oct/28/the-observer-view-on-the-budget-and-the-decade-of-austerity The Observer view on the budget and the decade of austerity], 28 October :
#*:  Delays with universal credit have compounded the problem, pushing people into rent arrears and putting them at risk of losing their homes. And the '''retrenchment''' of services such as mental health and drug rehabilitation means that vulnerable people are more likely to find themselves on the street.
# {{lb|en|military|dated}} A [[defensive]] [[work#Noun|work]] [[construct#Verb|constructed]] within a [[fortification]] to make it more [[defensible]] (by allowing [[defender]]s to [[retreat#Verb|retreat]] into and [[fight#Verb|fight]] from it even after the [[enemy]] has taken the outer work).
#* {{quote-book|lang=en|author=H[enry] Curzon|authorlink=Henry Curzon|chapter=Of Fortification|title=The Universal Library: Or, Compleat Summary of Science. Containing above Sixty Select Treatises. In Two Volumes. [...]|location=London|publisher=Printed for George Sawbridge, at the Three Flower-de-Lys in [[w:Little Britain, London|Little Britain]]|year=1712|volume=II|page=243|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=5iFCAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA243|oclc=642343210|passage=The ''Half-Moon'' is a Work always raiſed before the Baſtion's Point, being ſo named from the Lowneſs of its Gorges Cavity, &c. and is to ſecure the Two Faces of the Baſtion; but when the Faces have but a weak Defence from the ''Ravelin'', theſe Works are ſoon made uſeleſs or ruined, and give the Beſieged an opportunity of Lodgment, and may ſerve for Batteries and Flanks againſt the oppoſing Baſtions; however they may be retrenched by Traverſes, yet they will not fail to attack entirely in the Face, or where you have your laſt '''Retrenchment''', alſo that called the Counterguard runs the like Hazard.}}
#* {{quote-book|lang=en|author=John Muller [''i.e.'', {{w|John Müller}}]|chapter=Part II. Of the Defence.|title=The Attack and Defence of Fortify’d Places. In Three Parts. [...]|location=London|publisher=Printed for J. Millan, near [[w:Charing Cross|Charing-Cross]]|year=1747|page=186|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=xyoAI2OsExoC&pg=PA186|oclc=990827509|passage=[I]f there is one '''Retrenchment''' in a Work, it is generally thought ſufficient; but it happens much oftener than there is none at all; ſo that one might be apt to think, a Defence like that we have been explaining is only chimerical, if the Sieges of ''Vienna'' and ''Candy'', both by the ''Turks'', were not inſtances of the contrary, where there was hardly an inch of Ground either within or without thoſe two Towns, as far as the Extremities of the Glacis, and even beyond them, but what was retrenched and [[countermine]]d.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|reduction or curtailment}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leikkaus}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riduzione|f}}, {{t+|it|taglio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|oszczędność|f}}, {{t+|pl|redukcja|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сокраще́ние|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|defensive work}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|trincea|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|oszańcowanie|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}