==English==
{{was wotd|2018|March|9}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|en|fro|retranchier||to get rid of, remove}} (modern {{cog|fr|retrancher||to cut out, take away; to cut off; to cut down}}), from {{m|fro|re-||''suffix meaning ‘again’''}} + {{m|fro|tranchier}}, {{m|fro|trenchier||to cut}} (modern {{cog|fr|trancher||to slice}}); further etymology uncertain, but possibly either from {{der|en|VL.|*trinicāre||cut in three parts}} (from the root {{m|la|trini}} from {{m|la|trēs||three}}, based on the model of {{m|la|duplicāre||to double by dividing, split in two, tear}}), or from an alteration of {{der|en|la|truncāre||to maim by cutting off pieces; to truncate}}, also possibly influenced by {{der|en|cel-gau|*trincare||to cut (the head)}}. ''Compare'' {{cog|en|trench}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ɹɪˈtɹɛn(t)ʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|/ɹəˈtɹɛn(t)ʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|re|trench|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[cut down]] or [[reduce]].
#* {{quote-book|author=James Howell|authorlink=James Howell|chapter=England’s Tears, for the Present Wars, which for the Nature of the Quarrel, the Quality of the Strength, the Diversity of Battels, Skirmishes, Encounters, and Sieges, (Happened in so Short a Compasse of Time) Cannot be Parallel’d in Any Precedent Age|title=[[w:Dodona's Grove|ΔΕΝΔΡΟΛΟΓΊΑ [DENDROLOGIA]: Dodona’s Grove, or The Vocall Forrest. The Third Edition More Exact and Perfect than the Former; with the Addition of Two Other Tracts: viz. Englands Tears for the Present Wars. And The Pre-eminence of Parlements]]|edition=3rd|location=Cambridge|publisher=Printed by R. D. for {{w|Humphrey Moseley}}, and are to be sold at his shop at the Prince's Arms in [[w:St Paul's Cathedral|S. Pauls Church-yard]]|year=1645|page=189|pageurl=https://books.google.com.sg/books?id=JAU-AQAAMAAJpg=RA1-PA189|oclc=931321630|passage=''O conſider my caſe, moſt blisfull Queen,'' {{...}} ''Diſpell thoſe Clouds which hover 'twixt my King and his higheſt Counſell,'' {{...}} ''that my great Law-making Court be forced to turn no more to polemicall Committees,'' {{...}} ''but that they may come again to the old Parliamentary Rode,'' To the path of their Predeceſſours, to conſult of means how to ſweep away thoſe Cobwebs that hang in the Courts of Juſtice, and to make the Laws run in their right Channell; to '''retrench''' exceſſive fees, and finde remedies for the future, that the poor Client be not ſo peeled by his Lawyer, and made to ſuffer by ſuch monſtrous delays, that one may go from one Tropick to the other, and croſſe the Equinoctiall twenty times, before his ſute be done; {{...}}}}
#* {{quote-journal|editors={{w|Joseph Addison}} and {{w|Richard Steele}}|magazine=[[w:The Spectator (1711)|The Spectator]]|location=London|publisher=Printed for S[amuel] Buckley, at the Dolphin in [[w:Little Britain, London|Little-Britain]]; and [[w:Jacob Tonson|J[acob] Tonson]], at Shakespear's-Head over-against Catherine-street in the [[w:Strand, London|Strand]]|date=16 March 1711|volume=I|issue=16|page=89|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=uhRZAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA89|oclc=642176139|passage=Foppiſh and fantaſtick Ornaments are only Indications of Vice, not criminal in themſelves. Extinguiſh Vanity in the Mind, and you naturally '''retrench''' the little Superfluities of Garniture and Equipage. The Bloſſoms will fall of themſelves, when the Root that nouriſhes them is deſtroyed.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Jonathan Swift|authorlink=Jonathan Swift|chapter=To Dr. [Thomas] Sheridan [letter]|editors=[[w:Thomas Sheridan (divine)|Thomas Sheridan]] and [[w:John Nichols (printer)|John Nichols]]|title=The Works of the Rev. Jonathan Swift, D.D., Dean of St. Patrick’s, Dublin. Arranged by Thomas Sheridan, A.M. with Notes, Historical and Crtitical. A New Edition, in Nineteen Volumes; corrected and revised by John Nichols, F.S.A. Edinburgh and Perth|edition=new|location=London|publisher=Printed for J. Johnson [''et al.'']|date=29 June 1725|year_published=1801|volume=XII|page=147|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=uf4yAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA147|oclc=6772664|passage=I must desire that you will not think of enlarging your expenses, no not for some years to come, much less at present; but rather '''retrench''' them. You might have lain destitute till Antichrist came, for any thing you could have got from those you used to treat; neither let me hear of one rag of better clothes for your wife or brats, but rather plainer than ever.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive|specifically}} To [[terminate]] the [[employment]] of a [[worker]] to reduce the [[size#Noun|size]] of a [[workforce]]; to make [[redundant]].
##* {{quote-book|author=P. K. Padhi|chapter=The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947|title=Labour and Industrial Laws|edition=3rd|location=New Delhi|publisher=Asoke K. Ghosh, PHI Learning|month=July|year=2017|page=238|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=2wovDwAAQBAJ&pg=PA238|isbn=978-81-203-5349-7|passage=This section prescribes that an employer shall ordinarily '''retrench''' the workman who was the last person to be employed in that category, unless for reasons to be recorded in writing, the employer '''retrenches''' any other workman.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[confine#Verb|confine]]; to [[limit#Verb|limit]]; to [[restrict]].
#* {{quote-book|author=Isaac Taylor|authorlink=Isaac Taylor|chapter=Essay VII. ‘Without Controversy.’|title=Logic in Theology and Other Essays. [...] With a Sketch of the Life of the Author and a Catalogue of His Writings|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher={{w|William Gowans}}|year=1860|section=section VI|pages=271–272|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=URNmAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA271|oclc=54259617|passage=They say of God—That {{smallcaps|He}} spreadeth forth the heavens as a tent to dwell in; and that as a garment, some time hence, He shall roll them together. These figures, ought they then to receive a '''retrenched''' interpretation? Ought they to be denuded of their oriental garb? Not so, {{...}}}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|military}} To [[furnish]] with a [[retrenchment]] ([[defensive]] [[work#Noun|work]] within a [[fortification]]).
#: {{ux|en|to '''retrench''' bastions}}
#* {{quote-book|author=H[enry] Curzon|authorlink=Henry Curzon|chapter=Of Fortification|title=The Universal Library: Or, Compleat Summary of Science. Containing above Sixty Select Treatises. In Two Volumes. [...]|location=London|publisher=Printed for George Sawbridge, at the Three Flower-de-Lys in [[w:Little Britain, London|Little Britain]]|year=1712|volume=II|page=243|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=5iFCAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA243|oclc=642343210|passage=The ''Half-Moon'' is a Work always raiſed before the Baſtion's Point, being ſo named from the Lowneſs of its Gorges Cavity, &c. and is to ſecure the Two Faces of the Baſtion; but when the Faces have but a weak Defence from the ''Ravelin'', theſe Works are ſoon made uſeleſs or ruined, and give the Beſieged an opportunity of Lodgment, and may ſerve for Batteries and Flanks againſt the oppoſing Baſtions; however they may be '''retrenched''' by Traverſes, yet they will not fail to attack entirely in the Face, or where you have your laſt Retrenchment, alſo that called the Counterguard runs the like Hazard.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=John Muller [''i.e.'', {{w|John Müller}}]|chapter=Part II. Of the Defence.|title=The Attack and Defence of Fortify’d Places. In Three Parts. [...]|location=London|publisher=Printed for J. Millan, near [[w:Charing Cross|Charing-Cross]]|year=1747|page=186|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=xyoAI2OsExoC&pg=PA186|oclc=990827509|passage=[I]f there is one Retrenchment in a Work, it is generally thought ſufficient; but it happens much oftener than there is none at all; ſo that one might be apt to think, a Defence like that we have been explaining is only chimerical, if the Sieges of ''Vienna'' and ''Candy'', both by the ''Turks'', were not inſtances of the contrary, where there was hardly an inch of Ground either within or without thoſe two Towns, as far as the Extremities of the Glacis, and even beyond them, but what was '''retrenched''' and countermined.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=E[ugène] Viollet-le-Duc|authorlink=Eugène Viollet-le-Duc|author2={{w|Benjamin Bucknall}}, transl.|chapter=The Seventh Siege|title=Annals of a Fortress|location=Boston, Mass.|publisher=[[w:James R. Osgood|James R[ipley] Osgood and Company]], late [[w:Ticknor and Fields|Ticknor & Fields]], and Fields, Osgood, & Co.|year=1876|page=335|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=aoEDAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA335|oclc=217264580|passage=Captain Allaud did not doubt that the principal attack would be directed towards the left bastion; he had the gorge of this bastion therefore '''retrenched''' during the night.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[abridge]]; to [[curtail]].
#* {{RQ:Milton Paradise Regained|book=1|page=25|lines=454–459|passage=But this thy glory ſhall be ſoon '''retrench'd'''; / No more ſhalt thou by oracling abuſe / The Gentiles; henceforth Oracles are ceaſt, / And thou no more with Pomp and Sacrifice / Shalt by enquir'd at ''Delphos'' or elſewhere, / At leaſt in vain, for they ſhall find thee mute.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Colin Dueck|chapter=The Domestic Politics of the Obama Doctrine|title=The Obama Doctrine: American Grand Strategy Today|location=Oxford|publisher={{w|Oxford University Press}}|year=2015|page=109|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=xWXbBgAAQBAJ&pg=PA109|isbn=978-0-19-020262-0|passage=Under the Obama doctrine, the United States accommodates and '''retrenches''' internationally in large part so the president can focus on leaving behind liberal domestic policy legacies. This entails targeted counterterrorist strikes and assertive foreign policy adjustments when necessary, but for the most part represents a shift from guns to butter, a downscaling of military weight and presence, and an avoidance of any heavy US footprint overseas—a strategy pursued both on its merits in [[w:Barack Obama|[Barack] Obama]]'s view and in orderto avert domestic political risk.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[take up]] a new [[defensive]] [[position#Noun|position]].
#: {{ux|en|We must '''retrench''' and try to hold on long enough for products in development to reach the market or we will be out of business.}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Ziauddin Sardar|authorlink=Ziauddin Sardar|chapter=Preface|title=Orientalism|series=Concepts in the Social Sciences|location=Buckingham, Buckinghamshire; Philadelphia, Pa.|publisher={{w|Open University Press}}|year=1999|page=vii|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=QVLlAAAAQBAJ&pg=PR7|isbn=978-0-335-20207-2|passage=After '''retrenching''' itself in scholarship and literary imagination, Orientalism has moved on to conquer film, television and CD-ROMs. Nowadays, the subject of Orientalism is not limited to what is conventionally seen as the 'Orient' but also includes Europe, the home of its origins, itself.}}
#* {{quote-journal|title=Private equity: Keep calm and carry on: Why London will remain a hub for buy-out firms|url=http://www.economist.com/node/21547266|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20170713183842/http://www.economist.com/node/21547266|archivedate=13 July 2017|newspaper={{w|The Economist}}|date=11 February 2012|passage=Some smaller private-equity firms in continental Europe are struggling even more than British outfits, weakening the competition. International firms could decide it is not cost-effective to keep open their other European offices and '''retrench''' to London.}}
#* {{quote-web|author=Brandon Nowalk|title=Chickens and Dragons Come Home to Roost on ''{{w|Game of Thrones}}'' (Newbies)|url=https://tv.avclub.com/chickens-and-dragons-come-home-to-roost-on-game-of-thro-1798193793|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20171204101924/https://tv.avclub.com/chickens-and-dragons-come-home-to-roost-on-game-of-thro-1798193793|archivedate=4 December 2017|work={{w|The A.V. Club}}|date=16 July 2017|passage=It's an episode of characters returning to their own pasts as different people. They can '''retrench''' like [[w:Cersei Lannister|Cersei]], back on her bullshit, I mean, warpath. Or they can adapt, like [[w:Sandor Clegane|The Hound]]. Neither way necessarily ensures success, but we know the archmaester isn't unequivocally right. We’ve seen dragons reborn and armies of the undead. I wouldn’t be so sure that Wall will stand forever.}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|retrencher}}
* {{l|en|retrenching|pos=noun}}
* {{l|en|retrenchment}}

===Etymology 2===
{{prefix|en|re|trench}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[dig#Verb|dig]] or [[redig]] a [[trench#Noun|trench]] where one already exists.

===Further reading===
* {{pedia|retrenchment}}
* {{pedia|retrenchment (military)}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|trencher}}