==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|retret}}, a {{bor|en|fro|retrait|nocap=1}} or {{m|fro|retret}}, from {{der|en|la|retractus}}, from {{m|la|retraho}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-retreat.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

* {{rhymes|iːt|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of pulling back or withdrawing, as from something dangerous, or unpleasant.
#* Shakespeare
#*: In a '''retreat''' he outruns any lackey.
# The act of reversing direction and receding from a forward position.
# A peaceful, quiet place affording privacy or security.
#* {{RQ:Hardy Tess|IV}}
#*: In a large bedroom upstairs, the window of which was thickly curtained with a great woollen shawl lately discarded by the landlady, Mrs Rolliver, were gathered on this evening nearly a dozen persons, all seeking beatitude; all old inhabitants of the nearer end of Marlott, and frequenters of this '''retreat'''.
#* '''1692''', Roger L'Estrange, "Fable 100: An Old Man and a Lion", ''Fables of Aesop'', page 115
#*: ... he built his son a house of pleasure, on purpose to keep him out of harm's way; and spared neither art nor cost to make it a delicious '''retreat'''.
#* Dryden
#*: That pleasing shade they sought, a soft '''retreat''' / From sudden April showers, a shelter from the heat.
# {{label|en|rare|_|and|_|obsolete|euphemism}} An [[peaceful]], [[quiet]] [[place]] in which to [[urinate]] and [[defecate]]: an [[outhouse]]; a [[lavatory]].
# A period of retirement, seclusion, or solitude.
# A period of meditation, prayer or study.
# Withdrawal by military force from a dangerous position or from enemy attack.
# A signal for a military withdrawal.
# A bugle call or drumbeat signaling the lowering of the flag at sunset, as on a military base.
# A military ceremony to lower the flag.
# {{lb|en|chess}} The move of a piece from a threatened position.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|retract}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of pulling back or withdrawing}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|後退|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|后退|tr=hòutuì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|退卻|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|退却|tr=tuìquè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ústup|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|terugtocht}}, {{t+|nl|aftocht}}, {{t+|nl|terugtrekking}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|perääntyminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retraite|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rückzug}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mundur}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|退却|tr=たいきゃく, taikyaku|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|後退|tr=こうたい, kōtai|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|후퇴|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|퇴각|sc=Kore}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|taui}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|retrett|m}}, {{t|nb|tilbaketrekking|m|f}}, {{t|nb|tilbaketrekning|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|retrett|m}}, {{t|nn|tilbaketrekking|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|retirada|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|retragere|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отступле́ние|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retirarse}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|ві́дступ|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|quiet place affording privacy}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|útočiště|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|turvapaikka}}, {{t+|fi|piilopaikka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retraite|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|retiro|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cuilidh|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retiro|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-see|outhouse}}
{{trans-see|lavatory|toilet}}
{{trans-top|period of meditation, prayer, or study}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|retraite|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vetäytyminen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retraite|f}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|rekolekcija|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|retrett|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|retrett|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|retiro|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retiro}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:WC]]
[[Category:en:Rooms]]
[[Category:en:Buildings]]

===See also===
* {{l|en|religious retreat}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To withdraw military forces.
# {{q|of a glacier}} to [[shrink]] [[back]] due to generally warmer temperatures.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to withdraw military forces}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تَرَاجَعَ}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|後退|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|后退|tr=hòutuì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|退卻|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|退却|tr=tuìquè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|ustoupit}}, {{t|cs|stáhnout se|pf}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|terugtrekken|alt=zich terugtrekken}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|perääntyä}}, {{t+|fi|vetäytyä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|retirer|alt=se retirer}}, {{t+|fr|replier|alt=se replier}}, {{t+|fr|battre en retraite}}
* German: {{t+|de|zurückziehen|alt=sich zurückziehen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αποτραβιέμαι}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hörfa}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ritirarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|退却|tr=たいきゃくする, taikyaku suru|alt=退却する|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|後退|tr=こうたいする, kōtai suru|alt=後退する|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|후퇴하다|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t|la|pedem referre}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatahi}}, {{t|mi|taui}}, {{t|mi|paunu}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|عقب نشینی|tr=aqab nišīnī}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zarządzać odwrot|impf|alt=zarządzać odwrót}}, {{t+|pl|odstąpić|pf}}, {{t|pl|wycofywać się|impf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|retirar}}, {{t|pt|[[retirar]]-[[se]]}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|retrage}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отступа́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|отступи́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|ретирова́ться|impf|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retirarse}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|retirera}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|відступа́ти|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|відступи́ти|pf|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|treater}}
* {{l|en|tree rat}}

[[cs:retreat]]
[[cy:retreat]]
[[da:retreat]]
[[de:retreat]]
[[et:retreat]]
[[el:retreat]]
[[es:retreat]]
[[fa:retreat]]
[[fr:retreat]]
[[ko:retreat]]
[[hy:retreat]]
[[io:retreat]]
[[kn:retreat]]
[[ku:retreat]]
[[lv:retreat]]
[[hu:retreat]]
[[mg:retreat]]
[[ml:retreat]]
[[my:retreat]]
[[ja:retreat]]
[[pl:retreat]]
[[pt:retreat]]
[[ru:retreat]]
[[fi:retreat]]
[[tl:retreat]]
[[ta:retreat]]
[[te:retreat]]
[[chr:retreat]]
[[vi:retreat]]
[[zh:retreat]]