{{also|ridé|rîde}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|riden|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|ridan|rīdan|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{recons|rīdaną|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{recons|reydʰ-|lang=ine-pro}}. Cognate with Low German {{term|rieden|lang=nds}}, Dutch {{term|rijden|lang=nl}}, German {{term|reiten|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|ride|lang=da}}, Swedish {{term|rida|lang=sv}}; and (''from Indo-European'') with Welsh {{term|rhwyddhau||hurry}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɹaɪd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-ride.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪd}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|rides|riding|rode|ridden}}

# {{context|intransitive|transitive}} To [[transport]] oneself by sitting on and directing a [[horse]], later also a [[bicycle]] etc. {{defdate|from 8th c., transitive usage from 9th c.}}
#* '''1597''', William Shakespeare, ''King Henry IV, part 1'':
#*: Go Peto, to horse: for thou, and I, / Haue thirtie miles to '''ride''' yet ere dinner time.
#* '''1814''', Jane Austen, ''Mansfield Park'':
#*: I will take my horse early tomorrow morning and '''ride''' over to Stoke, and settle with one of them.
#* '''1923''', "Mrs. Rinehart", ''Time'', 28 Apr 1923:
#*: It is characteristic of her that she hates trains, that she arrives from a rail-road journey a nervous wreck; but that she can '''ride''' a horse steadily for weeks through the most dangerous western passes.
#* '''2010''', ''The Guardian'', [http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2010/oct/06/commonwealth-games-gymnastics-gold-silver-england 6 Oct 2010]:
#*: The original winner Azizulhasni Awang of Malaysia was relegated after '''riding''' too aggressively to storm from fourth to first on the final bend.
# {{context|intransitive|transitive}} To be transported in a vehicle; to travel as a passenger. {{defdate|from 9th c., transitive usage from 19th c.}}
#* '''1851''', Herman Melville, ''Moby-Dick'':
#*: Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to '''ride''' in a spring-carriage ashore.
#* '''1960''', "Biznelcmd", ''Time'', 20 Jun 1960:
#*: In an elaborately built, indoor San Francisco, passengers '''ride''' cable cars through quiet, hilly streets.
# {{context|transitive|chiefly|_|US|South Africa}} To [[transport]] (someone) in a vehicle. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#: ''The cab '''rode''' him downtown.''
# {{context|intransitive}} Of a ship: to [[sail]], to float on the water. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#* '''1719''', Daniel Defoe, ''Robinson Crusoe'':
#*: By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship '''rode''' forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home [...].
# {{context|transitive|intransitive}} To be carried or supported by something lightly and quickly; to travel in such a way, as though on horseback. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#: ''The witch cackled and '''rode''' away on her broomstick.''
# {{context|intransitive|transitive}} To mount (someone) to [[have sex]] with them; to have [[sexual intercourse]] with. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''c. 1390''', Geoffrey Chaucer, "The Nun's Priest's Tale", ''Canterbury Tales'':
#*: Womman is mannes Ioye and al his blis / ffor whan I feele a nyght your softe syde / Al be it that I may nat on yow '''ryde''' / ffor þat oure perche is maad so narwe allas [...].
#* '''1997''', Linda Howard, ''Son of the Morning'', p. 345:
#*: She '''rode''' him hard, and he squeezed her breasts, and she came again.
# {{context|transitive|colloquial}} To [[nag]] or [[criticize]]; to [[annoy]] (someone). {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2002''', Myra MacPherson, ''Long Time Passing: Vietnam and the haunted generation'', p. 375:
#*: “One old boy started '''riding''' me about not having gone to Vietnam; I just spit my coffee at him, and he backed off.
# {{context|intransitive}} Of clothing: to gradually [[move]] (up) and [[crease]]; to [[ruckle]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2008''', Ann Kessel, ''The Guardian'', [http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2008/jul/27/3 27 Jul 2008]:
#*: In athletics, triple jumper Ashia Hansen advises a thong for training because, while knickers '''ride''' up, ‘thongs have nowhere left to go’: but in Beijing Britain's best are likely, she says, to forgo knickers altogether, preferring to go commando for their country under their GB kit.
# {{context|intransitive}} To [[rely]], [[depend]] (on). {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''2006''', "Grappling with deficits", ''The Economist'', 9 Mar 2006:
#*: With so much '''riding''' on the new payments system, it was thus a grave embarrassment to the government when the tariff for 2006-07 had to be withdrawn for amendments towards the end of February.
# {{context|intransitive}} Of clothing: to [[rest]] (in a given way on a part of the body). {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''2001''', Jenny Eliscu, "Oops...she's doing it again", ''The Observer'', [http://www.guardian.co.uk/theobserver/2001/sep/16/life1.lifemagazine6 16 Sep 2001]:
#*: She's wearing inky-blue jeans that '''ride''' low enough on her hips that her aquamarine thong peeks out teasingly at the back.
# {{context|lacrosse}} To play [[defense]] on the defensemen or midfielders, as an attackman.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''ride'' (verb)}}
* [[ride bareback]]
* [[ride bitch]]
* [[ride herd on]]
* [[ride one's luck]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[ride roughshod over]]
* [[ride shotgun]]
* [[ride tall in the saddle]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[ride the rails]]
* [[ride the pine]]
* [[ride with the punches]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to transport oneself by sitting on and directing a horse, bicycle etc.}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|ry}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|ركب|tr=rákiba|sc=Arab}},{{qualifier|horse}} {{t-|ar|يمتطي|tr=yamtaṭi|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{tø|arz|يركب|tr=yerkab|sc=Arab}}
* Catalan: [[muntar]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|騎|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|骑|tr=qí|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jet}}
* Danish: {{qualifier|horse}} {{t+|da|ride}}, {{qualifier|bicycle}} {{t+|da|køre}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rijden}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|rajdi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ratsastaa}} {{qualifier|on horseback}}, {{t+|fi|ajaa}} {{qualifier|on a vehicle}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rouler}}, {{qualifier|horse}} {{t+|fr|monter}}
* German: {{qualifier|horse}} {{t+|de|reiten}}, {{qualifier|bicycle}} {{t+|de|fahren}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|רכב|m|tr=rakháv|alt=רָכַב|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|सवार होना|tr=savār honā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lovagol}}
* Indonesian: [[naik]], [[naik|menaiki]], [[kendara|mengendarai]], [[tunggang|menunggang]]
* Italian: {{qualifier|horse}} ''transitive'', ''intransitive'' [[cavalcare]], {{qualifier|bicycle}} ''transitive'' [[guidare]], ''intransitive'' [[andare in bici]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|乗る|tr=[[のる]], noru|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|타다|tr=tada|sc=Kore}}, [[말|말을]] [[타다]] (maleul tada)
* Latgalian: {{qualifier|horse}} {{tø|ltg|juot}}, {{tø|ltg|raituot}}, {{qualifier|bike}} {{tø|ltg|braukt}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|jāt}}, {{qualifier|bike}} {{t+|lv|braukt}}
* Lithuanian: {{qualifier|horse}} {{t+|lt|joti}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|eke}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ri}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|ꙗхати|tr=jaxati|sc=Cyrs}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|سواری کردن|tr=savâri kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|andar}}, {{t+|pt|cavalgar}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t+|ru|ехать|tr=jéxat’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|поехать|tr=pojéxat’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}, {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t+|ru|ездить|tr=jézdit’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{qualifier|for recreation}} {{t+|ru|кататься|tr=katát’sja}} {{impf}}, {{t-|ru|покататься|tr=pokatát’sja}} {{pf.}}, {{t-|ru|прокатиться|tr=prokatít’sja}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: [[voziti]] {{qualifier|bicycle}}, [[jezditi]] {{qualifier|horse}}, [[jahati]] {{qualifier|horse}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|palama}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|montar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rida}} (animal), {{t+|sv|åka}} (bike)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sürmek}}, {{t+|tr|binmek}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-|vi|cỡi}}
* Welsh: [[marchogaeth]] (horse), [[mynd ar (gefn) beic]], [[beicio]] (bicycle)
* West Frisian: ride
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be transported in a vehicle as a passenger}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|ry}}
* American Sign Language: {{tø|ase|BentV@InThumb-PalmDown-C@CenterChesthigh BentV@InThumb-PalmDown-C@DistalCenterChesthigh}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|ركب|tr=rákiba|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|乘|tr=chéng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|搭乘|tr=dāchéng|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|坐|tr=zuò|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jet}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|køre}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rijden}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|rajdi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|monter}} en/à
* German: {{t+|de|fahren}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|נסע|m|tr=nasá|alt=נָסַע|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: [[autóz]]
* Italian: ''transitive'', ''intransitive'' [[guidare]], ''intransitive'' [[andare in macchina]]
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|乗る|tr=[[のる]], noru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|타다|tr=tada|sc=Kore}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|braukt}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|braukt}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|važiuoti}}, {{t-|lt|keliauti}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ri}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|ꙗхати|tr=jaxati|sc=Cyrs}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|راندن|tr=rândan}}
* Portuguese: [[andar]] de [[automóvel]]
* Russian: {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t+|ru|ехать|tr=jéxat’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|поехать|tr=pojéxat’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf.}}, {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t+|ru|ездить|tr=jézdit’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{qualifier|for recreation}} {{t+|ru|кататься|tr=katát’sja}} {{impf}}, {{t-|ru|покататься|tr=pokatát’sja}} {{pf.}}, {{t-|ru|прокатиться|tr=prokatít’sja}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voziti}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|palama}}
* Spanish: [[pasear]] en [[coche]], {{t+|es|conducir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|åka}}
* Welsh: [[mynd]], [[teithio]]
* West Frisian: ride
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to transport someone in a vehicle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajaa}}, {{t+|fi|kuljettaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to sail, float on the water}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kulkea}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to travel lightly and quickly, as on horseback}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ratsastaa}}, {{t+|fi|ajaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mount someone to have sex with them}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|panna}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: to criticize or annoy}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vinoilla}}, {{t+|fi|ärsyttää}}; {{t+|fi|vittuilla}} {{qualifier|vulgar}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of clothing: to gradually move up and crease}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|krymppääntyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to rely, depend}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riippua}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of clothing: to rest on a part of the body}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|roikkua}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lacrosse: to play defense or midfielders as an attackman}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An instance of riding.
#: ''Can I have a '''ride''' on your bike?''
# {{context|informal}} A [[vehicle]].
#: ''That is a nice '''ride''' you are driving.''
# An [[amusement]] ridden at a [[fair]] or [[amusement park]].
# A [[lift]] given to someone in another person's vehicle.
#: ''Can you give me a '''ride'''?''
# {{context|UK}} A road or avenue cut in a wood, for riding; a [[bridleway]] or other wide country path.
# {{context|UK|dialect|archaic}} A [[saddle horse]].
#: {{rfquotek|Wright}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''ride'' (noun)}}
* [[bike-and-ride]]
* [[free ride]]
* [[go along for the ride]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[joy ride]]
* [[ride cymbal]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[white-knuckle ride]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|instance of riding}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|rit}}
* American Sign Language: {{tø|ase|BentV@InThumb-PalmDown-C@CenterChesthigh BentV@InThumb-PalmDown-C@DistalCenterChesthigh}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ركوب|m|tr=rukuub}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|jízda|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|ridt|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ajelu}}, {{t+|fi|ajo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{qualifier|informal}} {{t-|he|סיבוב|m|tr=sivúv|alt=סִיבוּב|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|giro|m}}, {{t+|it|corsa|f}}
* Korean: [[승마]] (seungma = horse)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jazda|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|езда|f|tr=jezdá}}, {{t+|ru|поездка|f|tr=pojézdka}}, {{t+|ru|катание|n|tr=katánije}} {{qualifier|for recreation}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|vehicle}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|آلية|f|alt=آليّة}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rassi}}, {{t+|fi|menopeli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bagnole|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|רכב|m|tr=rékhev|alt=רֶכֶב|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{qualifier|car}} [[macchina]] {{f}}, [[auto]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|езда|f|tr=jezdá}}, {{t+|ru|поездка|f|tr=pojézdka}}, {{t+|ru|катание|n|tr=katánije}} {{qualifier|for recreation}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|medio de transporte|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|amusement}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laite}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|giostra|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|катание|n|tr=katánije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lift}}
* {{trreq|sq}}
* {{trreq|bg}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kyyti}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|მგზავრობა|tr=mgzavroba|sc=Geor}}
* Hebrew: {{qualifier|informal, Israeli}} {{t+|he|טרמפ|m|tr=tremp|alt=טְרֶמְפּ|sc=Hebr}}, {{qualifier|formal}} {{t-|he|הסעה|f|tr=hasaá|alt=הַסָּעָה|sc=Hebr}}
* {{trreq|ja}}
* {{trreq|ko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|ro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подвоз|m|tr=podvóz}}
* {{trreq|sh}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|rait}} (phonetic cognate of ''ride''), {{t+|es|autoestop|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skjuts|c}}
* {{trreq|tr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bridleway or similar}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ratsutie}}, {{t-|fi|kärrypolku}}, {{t-|fi|kärrytie}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[dire#English|dire]]
* [[ired#English|ired]]
* [[Reid#English|Reid]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Danish==
{{wikipedia|lang=da|mul=Ride (fugl)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fo|da}}, {{etyl|is|da}} {{term|rita|lang=is}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/riːdə/|[ʁiːðə]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{da-noun|n|r}}

# black-legged [[kittiwake]] {{qualifier|Rissa tridactyla}}

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|n|r}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|ríða|lang=non}},  from {{etyl|gem-pro|da}} {{recons|rīdaną|lang=gem-pro}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|da}} {{recons|reydʰ-|lang=ine-pro}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/riːdə/|[ʁiːðə]|lang=da}}

====Verb====
{{head|da|verb|imperative|rid|present|rider|past|red|past participle|redet|&#32;|reden|or|redne|present participle|ridende}}

# {{l|en|ride}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From ''[[rider#French|rider]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-ride.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/ʀid/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[wrinkle]], [[line]] (on face etc.)
# [[ripple]], [[ridge]]

====Related terms====
* [[ridé]]
* [[rider]]

===Anagrams===
* [[dire#French|dire]]

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
'''ride'''

# ''third-person singular indicative present of [[ridere]]''

===Anagrams===
* [[dire#Italian|dire]]

[[Category:Italian verb forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|rīdē}}

# {{conjugation of|rideo|rīdeō|2|s|pres|act|imp|lang=la}}

[[ang:ride]]
[[ca:ride]]
[[cs:ride]]
[[co:ride]]
[[cy:ride]]
[[da:ride]]
[[de:ride]]
[[et:ride]]
[[el:ride]]
[[es:ride]]
[[eu:ride]]
[[fr:ride]]
[[gl:ride]]
[[ko:ride]]
[[hr:ride]]
[[io:ride]]
[[id:ride]]
[[it:ride]]
[[kn:ride]]
[[ku:ride]]
[[lv:ride]]
[[lt:ride]]
[[li:ride]]
[[hu:ride]]
[[mg:ride]]
[[ml:ride]]
[[my:ride]]
[[nl:ride]]
[[ja:ride]]
[[pl:ride]]
[[pt:ride]]
[[ru:ride]]
[[simple:ride]]
[[fi:ride]]
[[sv:ride]]
[[tl:ride]]
[[ta:ride]]
[[te:ride]]
[[th:ride]]
[[uk:ride]]
[[vi:ride]]
[[zh:ride]]