{{also|rím|rim-|Rim|Řím}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=rim}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|rima|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɹɪm/}}
* {{audio|en-us-rim.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪm}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[edge]] around something, especially when circular.
# {{automotive}} [[wheel rim]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|edge around something}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|rand}}, {{t|da|indfatning}} (for any shape), {{t|da|fælg}} (only for wheels)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rand|m}}
* Finnish: [[reuna]] (erit. pyöreän esineen)
* French: [[bord]] {{qualifier|for any shape}} ; [[jante]] {{qualifier|only for wheels}}
* German: [[Rand]] {{m}}, [[Kante]] {{f}}, [[Felge]] {{qualifier|of a wheel}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[bordo]], [[orlo]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|orlo}}, {{t+|it|bordo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|kant|m}}, {{t|nb|rand|m|f}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|rand|f}}, {{t|nn|kant|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|borda|f}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|iomall|m}}, {{t|gd|oir|f}}, {{t|gd|bile|f}}
* Serbian: [[rub]], [[ivica]], [[obod]], [[naplatak]] (of wheel) {{m}}, [[gobela]] (of wheel) {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|borde|m}}, {{t+|es|canto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rand|c}}, {{t|sv|kant|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wheel rim}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|uztai|xs=Basque}}, {{t|eu|hagun|xs=Basque}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|velg}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|aluvanne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|roue}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|cerchione}}, {{t+|it|cerchio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|felg|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|felg|m}}
* Polish: [[felga]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[aro]] {{m}} {{qualifier|Argentina|Bolivia|Costa Rica|Dominican Republic|Ecuador|Guatemala|Peru|Puerto Rico}}, [[llanta]] {{f}} {{qualifier|Chile|Paraguay|Spain|Uruguay}}, [[rin]] {{m}} {{qualifier|Colombia|Mexico|Panama|Venezuela}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{sense|wheel rim}} [[mag wheel]], [[alloy wheel]], [[steel rim]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|rims|rimming|rimmed|rimmed}}

# To form a rim on.
# To follow the [[contour]]s, possibly creating a [[circuit]]
#: Palm trees '''rim''' the beach.
#: A walking path '''rims''' the island.
# {{context|of a ball}} To roll around a rim.
#: ''The golf ball '''rimmed''' the cup.''
#: ''The basketball '''rimmed''' in and out.''
# {{slang}} to lick the anus of a partner as part of the sexual act.
#* '''2008''', Lexy Harper, ''Bedtime Erotica for Freaks (Like Me)'', page 216
#*: When she started thrusting her hips back against his finger, he turned her over and '''rimmed''' her asshole as he fingered her clit.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|form a rim}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|follow the contours}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|roll around a rim}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lick the anus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[IRM#English|IRM]], [[mir#English|mir]], [[Mir#English|Mir]], [[MIR#English|MIR]], [[MRI#English|MRI]]

[[Category:en:Sex]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology 1===
From Old Norse {{term|hrím}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|en|-}}

# [[hoarfrost]], [[rime]]

===Etymology 2===
From late {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|rím|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gml|da}} {{term|rim|lang=gml}}, from {{etyl|fr|da}} {{term|rime||rhyme|lang=fr}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|et}}

# [[rhyme]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|et}}

=====See also=====
* {{pedia|lang=da}}

===Etymology 3===
See {{l|da|rime}}.

====Verb====
{{head|da|verb form}}

# {{form of|imperative|rime|lang=da}}

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
{{proto|Germanic|rīman|number, count, series|lang=}} from {{proto|Indo-European|re(i)-|to reason, count|lang=}}. Akin to {{etyl|ofs|-}} ''[[rim#Old Frisian|rīm]]'', {{etyl|osx|-}} ''[[-rim#Old Saxon|-rīm]]'', {{etyl|goh|-}} ''[[rim#Old High German|rīm]]'', {{etyl|is|-}} ''[[rím]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/riːm/|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|head=rīm|g=n}}

# a [[number]], [[counting]], [[reckoning]], [[numeral]]; [[calendar]]
#: ''Rim miclade monna mægþe geond middan-geard'' — Cædmon’s ''Metrical Paraphrase''
# [[sum]]; [[enumeration]]

====Declension====
{{ang-decl-noun-a-n|rim|alt1=rīm}}

====Derived terms====
* [[gerim|gerīm]] n. — A number, computation, measurement, calendar, diary
* [[riman|rīman]] — to count, number; tell, enumerate, relate; account, esteem as
* [[rimaþ|rīmāþ]] m. — oath by a number of persons
* [[rimboc|rīmbōc]] — calendar
* [[rimcræft|rīmcræft]] m. — arithmetic; calendar
* [[rimcræftig|rīmcræftig]] — skilled in reckoning
* [[rimcræftiga|rīmcræftiga]] m. — one skilful at figures
* [[rimgetæl|rīmgetæl]], [[rimgetel|rīmgetel]] n. — number
* [[rimre|rīmre]] m. — reckoner, calculator
* [[rimtæl|rīmtæl]] n. — number
* [[rimtalu|rīmtalu]] f. number

====Descendants====
* English [[rime]], [[rhyme]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|pt}} {{term|ren|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|rins}}

# [[kidney]]
# {{context|in plural|lang=pt}} [[small of the back]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|g=n}}

# [[rhyme]]

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-irreg-n|2=rimmet|4=rimmen}}

===See also===
* [[rimma]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[rhyme]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

===See also===
* [[rimod]]

[[de:rim]]
[[et:rim]]
[[el:rim]]
[[eo:rim]]
[[fa:rim]]
[[fr:rim]]
[[gl:rim]]
[[ko:rim]]
[[io:rim]]
[[id:rim]]
[[it:rim]]
[[kn:rim]]
[[ku:rim]]
[[lt:rim]]
[[li:rim]]
[[hu:rim]]
[[mg:rim]]
[[ml:rim]]
[[my:rim]]
[[nl:rim]]
[[no:rim]]
[[oc:rim]]
[[om:rim]]
[[pl:rim]]
[[pt:rim]]
[[ro:rim]]
[[ru:rim]]
[[sl:rim]]
[[fi:rim]]
[[sv:rim]]
[[tl:rim]]
[[ta:rim]]
[[te:rim]]
[[tr:rim]]
[[uk:rim]]
[[vi:rim]]
[[vo:rim]]
[[zh:rim]]