{{see|Ring}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|rĭng}}, {{IPA|/ɹɪŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/rIN/}}
* {{audio|en-us-ring.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: '''Homophones''': [[wring]]
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋ|-ɪŋ]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[hring]]'' from Germanic *''[[hrengaz]]''

The mathematics sense was introduced by mathematician [[w:David Hilbert|David Hilbert]] in 1892, a contraction of the German ''[[Zahlring]]''. (Reference: Harvey Cohn, ''Advanced Number Theory'', page 49.)

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[circumscribing]] [[object]] (looking like an [[annual ring]], [[earring]], [[finger ring]], etc.)
# A [[round]] piece of ([[precious]]) [[metal]] [[worn]] around the [[finger]].
# A [[round]] piece of [[metal]] put around a [[bird]]'s [[leg]] used for identification and studies of [[migration]].
# A place where some sports take place; as, a boxing ring.
# A [[group]] of people, usually involving some unethical or illegal practices; as a Crime ring.
# {{algebra}} An [[algebraic]] [[structure]] which is a [[group]] under [[addition]] and a [[monoid]] under [[multiplication]].
#: ''The set of integers, <math>\mathbb{Z}</math>, is the prototypical ring.''
# {{geometry}} A [[planar]] [[geometrical]] [[figure]] included between two [[concentric]] [[circle]]s.
# {{astronomy}} A formation of various pieces of material orbiting around a [[planet]].
# <!--Verify etymology, please--> An old English [[measure]] of [[corn]] equal to the [[coomb]] or half a [[quarter]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1866''': The ring is common in the Huntingdonshire accounts of Ramsey Abbey. It was equal to half a quarter, i.e., is identical with the coomb of the eastern counties. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 1, p. 168.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}
#To attach a ring to.
#: Only '''ringed''' hogs may forage in the commons.
#To [[surround]].
#: The inner city was '''ringed''' with dingy industrial areas.
#To cut a ring around.
#: They '''ringed''' the trees to make the clearing easier next year.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|circumscribing object}}
* Czech: [[kroužek]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[고리]] (gori)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|round piece of (precious) metal worn around the finger (1)}}
* Albanian: [[unazë]] {{f}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[خاتم]]}} {{IPAchar|(χātim)}} {{m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[bizou]] {{m}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[anell]] {{m}}
* Chinese: [[戒指]] (jièzhǐ)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|prsten|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|prsten|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ring|m}}
* [[Erzya]]: [[суркс]] (surks)
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ringo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sormus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|anneau|m}}, {{t+|fr|bague|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyűrű}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|anello|m}}
* Japanese: [[指輪]] ([[ゆびわ]], yubiwa)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[가락지]] (garagji), [[반지]] ([[半指]], banji)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ئه‌نگوستیله‌]]}}, {{KUchar|[[ئه‌موستیله‌]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|anulus|m}}
* Latvian: [[gredzens]] {{m}}
* Maltese: [[ċurkett]] {{m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ring|m}}
* Polish: [[pierścionek]] {{m}} (with stone), [[obrączka]] {{f}} (without stone)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|anel|m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|inel|m|f}}
* Russian: [[кольцо]] (kol’tsó) {{n}}, [[перстень]] (p'érst'en') {{m}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[fàinne]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[prsteň]] {{m}}, [[obrúčka]] {{f}} (wedding ring)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prstan|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|anillo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఉంగరం]] (uMgaraM)
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|yüzük}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A round piece of metal (2)}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rengas}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
* Polish: [[obrączka]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[кольцо]] (kol’tsó) {{n}}
* Slovene: [[obroček]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A place where some sports take place (3)}}
* [[Breton]]: [[ring]]
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|ring|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|ring|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ring|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kehä}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ring|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ring|m}}
* Russian: [[ринг]] (ring) {{m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|ring|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|ring|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[గోదా]] (gOdaa), [[బరి]] (bari)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A group of people (4)}}
* Finnish: [[rinki]]
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[klika]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[клика]] (klíka) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An algebraic structure(5)}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|okruh|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δακτύλιος|m|tr=ðaktílios|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyűrű}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[pierścień]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[кольцо]] (kol’tsó) {{n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A planar geometrical figure (6)}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ring|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyűrű}}
* Polish: [[pierścień]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[кольцо]] (kol’tsó) {{n}}
* Slovene: [[kolobar]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A formation of various pieces of material orbiting around a planet (7)}}
* Czech: [[prstenec]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ring|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rengas}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gyűrű}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[кольцо]] (kol’tsó) {{n}}
* Slovak: [[prstenec]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ring|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An old English measure of corn (8)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[gwalenn]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[anell]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[ringo]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[cincin]]

* {{ttbc|Irish}}: [[fáinne]]
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[指輪]] ([[ゆびわ]], yubiwa), [[リング]] (ringu)
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[inel]] {{n}}

===Etymology 2===
Verb is from Old English ''[[hringan]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The resonant sound of a bell
#: The church bell's '''ring''' could be heard the length of the valley.
# A sound resembling the sound of a bell
#: The '''ring''' of hammer on anvil filled the air.
# A [[pleasant]] or [[correct]] [[sound]].
#: ''The name has a nice '''ring''' to it.
# {{slang}} a telephone call.
#: I’ll give you a '''ring''' when the plane lands.


=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* German: {{t+|de|Klang|m}}
* Hungarian: [[csengés]]
{{mid}}
* Norwegian: [[klang]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rings|ringing|rang|rung}}

# {{intransitive}} To produce the sound of a [[bell]] or a similar sound.
#: ''Whose mobile phone is '''ringing'''?''
# {{transitive}} To make a ([[church]]) [[bell]] produce sound.
#: ''The deliveryman '''rang''' the doorbell to drop off a parcel.''
# {{intransitive}} Of something spoken or written, to [[appear]] to be, to [[seem]], to [[sound]].
#: ''That does not '''ring''' true.''
# To telephone someone.
#: I will '''''ring''''' you when we arrive.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To produce the sound of a bell or a similar sound (1)}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[يطرق الجرس]]}} {{IPAchar|(yáʈroq aj-járas)}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[dringar]], [[trucar]] (only door-bell)
* Chinese: [[按鈴]] (ànlíng)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zvonit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bellen}}, {{t+|nl|klinken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soida}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sonner}}
* German: [[läuten]], [[klingeln]]
* Hungarian: [[csenget]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|suonare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[鳴る]] (なる, naru)
* Korean: [[울리다]] (ullida)
* Norwegian: [[ringe]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dzwonić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tocar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|suna}}
* Russian: [[звонить]] (zvonít’) {{impf}}
* Slovak: [[zvoniť]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|sonar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ringa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To make a (church) bell produce sound (2)}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[fer sonar]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zvonit}}
* Dutch: [[luiden]], [[weergalmen]]
* Finnish: [[soittaa]] [[kelloa]]
* French: {{t+|fr|sonner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|läuten}}
* Hungarian: [[csenget]]
* Norwegian: [[ringe]]
* Polish: [[uderzać]] (w dzwon)
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|bate}}
* Russian: [[звонить]] (zvonít’) {{impf}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ringa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Of something spoken or written, to appear to be, to seem, to sound (3)}}
* German: {{t+|de|klingen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[звучать]] (zvučát’) {{impf}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|låta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To telephone someone (4)}}
* Czech: [[zavolat]], [[brnknout]]
* German: {{t+|de|anrufen}}
* Norwegian: [[ringe]], [[telefonere]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[звонить]] (zvonít’) {{impf}}, [[позвонить]] (pozvonít’) {{pf}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ringa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[seniñ]]
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[sonori]]

* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: bel [[bunyi|berbunyi]], [[bunyi|membunyikan]] bel
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[鳴らす]] ([[ならす]], narasu), [[鳴る]] ([[なる]], naru)
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[tintinare]]

====Derived terms====
* [[give a ring]]
* [[ringbark]]
* [[ring off]]
* [[ringtone]]
* [[spy ring]]
* [[unring]]

===Etymology 3===
from [[boring]]
====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{rfv-sense}}{{UK|slang}} Short for [[boring]].


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Balinese==

===Preposition===
'''ring'''

# [[in]], [[at]]

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{E.|hr}} {{term|ring|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{hr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|ring]] (''place where some sports take place; boxing ring and similar'')

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''de ring''' (''plural:'' ringen)

# [[ring]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Verb===
'''ring'''

# to [[sway]]

[[Category:Hungarian verbs]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
'''ring''' ''m''

# [[ring]]; a [[circular]] piece of material
# ring; the place where sports such as boxing takes place

----

==Old High German==

===Etymology===
Common Germanic *''[[hrengaz]]''

===Noun===
'''ring''' ''m''

# [[ring]]

[[Category:Old High German nouns]]

----

==Swedish==
===Etymology 1===
====Pronunciation====
*{{audio|Sv-ring.ogg|audio}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}
'''ring'''

# [[#English|ring]]; a [[circular]] piece of material
# ring; the place where sports such as boxing takes place
# {{sv-mathematics}} ring; an algebraic structure
# {{sv-mathematics}} ring; a planar geometrical figure
# {{sv-astronomy}} ring; a collection of material orbiting some planets
# one of the (usually three) years in the ''[[gymnasium#Swedish|gymnasium]]'' school
#: ''Ann började nyss andra '''ring''''' = ''Ann recently began her second year at the ''gymnasium.

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}

====Pronunciation====
*{{audio|Sv-ring.ogg|audio}}

====Verb====
{{infl|sv|verb}}

#''imperative form of'' [[ringa]]

[[Category:Astronomy]]
[[Category:Jewelry]]
[[Category:Mathematics]]

[[ang:ring]]
[[ar:ring]]
[[de:ring]]
[[el:ring]]
[[fa:ring]]
[[fr:ring]]
[[gl:ring]]
[[io:ring]]
[[it:ring]]
[[kk:ring]]
[[ku:ring]]
[[hu:ring]]
[[nl:ring]]
[[no:ring]]
[[pl:ring]]
[[ro:ring]]
[[ru:ring]]
[[simple:ring]]
[[sl:ring]]
[[fi:ring]]
[[sv:ring]]
[[ta:ring]]
[[te:ring]]
[[vi:ring]]
[[tr:ring]]
[[uk:ring]]
[[zh:ring]]