==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{suf|en|ring|let}}. Compare {{cog|enm|ryngyl}}, {{m|enm|ryngyll}}, {{m|enm|rengel|t=ringlet}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A small [[ring]].
# A [[lock]], [[tress]].
#: ''Her hair was in '''ringlets'''.''
#* '''1900''', L. Frank Baum, ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' Chapter 23
#*: She was both beautiful and young to their eyes. Her hair was a rich red in color and fell in flowing '''ringlets''' over her shoulders. Her dress was pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly upon the little girl.
# {{lb|en|entomology}} Any of various [[butterfly|butterflies]] with small rings on the wings, in the tribe [[Satyrini]] of the family [[Nymphalidae]], such as {{taxlink|Aphantopus hyperantus|species|ver=160930}}.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|lock, tress}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|бөҙрә}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|къдрица|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pijpenkrul|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kihara}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lokni}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|bachall|f}}, {{t|ga|búcla|m}}, {{t|ga|drol|m}}, {{t+|ga|lúibín|m}}, {{t|ga|caschiabh|f}}, {{t+|ga|fáinne|m}}, {{t|ga|fáinneog|f}}, {{t|ga|iodh|f}}, {{t+|ga|lúb|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ricciolo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|巻き毛|tr=makige}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|cassag|f}}, {{t|gv|kiog|f}}, {{t|gv|skiog|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|urumāwhatu}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مرغول|tr=marğul}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Kroll|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ло́кон|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cuach|f}}, {{t|gd|snìomh|m}}, {{t|gd|cleachd|f}}, {{t|gd|camalag|f}}, {{t|gd|dual|m}}, {{t|gd|camag|f}}, {{t|gd|bachlag|f}}, {{t|gd|glib|f}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|ку́чер}}, {{t+|uk|ло́кон}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|butterfly}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|heinäperhonen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|глазо́к цвето́чный|m}}, {{t|ru|глазо́к чёрно-бу́рый|m}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|iâr fach y glaw|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To form into ringlets.
#* '''1877''', Ella Farman, ''Good-for-nothing Polly'' (page 163)
#*: "It's very becoming!" said Pollie coaxingly, taking his curly head, which she had been brushing and '''ringleting''' for the last half hour, all damp, into her arms.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To surround or encircle like a ringlet.
#* '''1980''', Stephen King, ''The Mist''
#*: I think now that if it had gripped me with those suckers, I would have gone out into the mist too. But it didn't. It grabbed Norm. And the third tentacle '''ringleted''' his other ankle. Now he was being pulled away from me.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=egilnrt|Giltner|Tingler|tingler|tringle}}

[[Category:en:Hair]]
[[Category:en:Satyrine butterflies]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|de|De-ringlet.ogg|Audio}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}
# {{verb form of|de|ringeln||2|p|sub|I}}