==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|?}}

# The [[trust]]-[[inspire|inspiring]] [[sound]], [[tenor]], or [[impression]] of being [[truthful]].
#* '''1874''', [[W:Edward_Payson_Roe|Edward Payson Roe]], ''Opening a Chestnut Burr'', ch. 20,
#*: I am too well accustomed to the taking of evidence not to detect the '''ring of truth'''.
#* '''1908''', [[w:Edith_Wharton|Edith Wharton]], "The Pretext,"
#*: She could hear the '''ring of truth''' in young Dawnish's voice.
#* '''2006''', "[https://web.archive.org/web/20070816032407/http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1158967,00.html Verbatim]," ''Time'', 20 Feb.,
#*: It is fiction. But it has the absolute '''ring of truth'''.
#*{{quote-video game|en||developer={{w|BioWare}}|title={{w|Mass Effect (video game)|Mass Effect}}|location=Redwood City|publisher=Electronic Arts|year=2008|genre=[[science fiction|Science Fiction]]|platform=PC|scene=Noveria|isbn=9780784546642|oclc=246633669|passage=Merchant Opold: This one promised compensation for services rendered. It humbly suggests that a sum of 250 credits would be most appropriate.<br>Shepard: Would you have had any chance of getting this past customs without me? You can be a bit more generous.<br>Merchant Opold: The other's words possess the discomforting '''ring of truth'''.<br>Merchant Opold: This one could raise the sum to 500 credits. That is half this one's profit taken by the other. It can offer no more.}}

====Usage notes====
* Sometimes used (especially in the 19th and early-20th centuries) with reference to [[oral]] remarks or a [[manner]] of [[speaking]], and sometimes used (especially since the mid-20th century) to refer to a [[written]] statement or [[narrative]] which strikes the reader as true.

====Synonyms====
* [[believability]]
* [[credibility]]