{{also|rock star}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Rock Star}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|rock star}}

===Etymology===
{{compound|en|rock|star}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A member of a [[rock band]], or a solo artist in the genre, especially one with [[celebrity]] status.
# {{lb|en|figuratively|sometimes used [[attributive]]ly}} A person who is [[renowned]] or [[revere]]d in his or her field of accomplishment.
#* '''2008''': {{w|Fareed Zakaria}}, {{w|The Post-American World}}, Chapter VII
#*: Eventually Clinton relented and went to India in March 2000. He spent five days in the country, visited famous sights, put on traditional clothes, and took part in dances and ceremonies. He communicated the message that he enjoyed and admired India as a country and civilization. The result was a transformation. Clinton is a '''rock star''' in India.
#* '''2010''' April 25, "[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/news/the-iiosi-happy-list-2010--the-100-1953745.html?action=gallery&ino=3 The IoS Happy List 2010]," ''The Independent'' (UK) <small>(retrieved 24 May 2014)</small>:
#*: Science has long had an image problem but Dr Cox—also known as the '''rockstar''' physicist—has done the unthinkable and made particle physics cool.
#* '''2012''' March 30, "[http://www.forbes.com/sites/joshbarro/2012/04/30/the-three-reasons-romney-needs-chris-christie-on-his-ticket/ The Three Reasons Romney Needs Chris Christie On His Ticket]," ''Forbes'' <small>(retrieved 24 May 2014)</small>:
#*: Christie has managed to become a '''rockstar''' among conservatives nationally while pursuing an agenda that is in many ways moderate.
#* '''2013''' March 24, [[w:Rory Carroll|Rory Carroll]], "[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/mar/24/las-vegas-tony-hsieh-regeneration Downtown Las Vegas may have found what it's looking for]," ''The Guardian'' (UK) <small>(retrieved 24 May 2014)</small>:
#*: Tony Hsieh is a '''rockstar''' software developer who's turning his attention to urban regeneration in Las Vegas.
# {{lb|en|figuratively|sometimes used [[attributive]]ly}} Any animal, plant, or other thing that is [[renowned]] amongst others of its type.
#: ''Owls are the '''rockstars''' of the bird world.'' <!--weird example: why?-->

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|rockstardom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|member of a rock band}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rockster|m|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rocktähti}}, {{t|fi|rockstara}}, {{t|fi|rokkitähti}}
* Greek: {{t|el|αστέρι της ροκ}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rockstar|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|रॉक्स्टार}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|roqueiro|m}}, {{t|pt|[[estrela]] [[do]] [[rock]]|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|renowned person}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rocktähti}}, {{t+|fi|stara}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ackorrst|rock rats|tarrocks}}

[[Category:en:Music]]
[[Category:en:Musicians]]
[[Category:en:People]]