{{see|Rock|rocks}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|rŏk}}, {{IPA|/rɒk/}}, {{SAMPA|/rQk/}}
*Audio files:
*:Received Pronunciation: <span class="IPA" style="font-family:{{IPA fonts}};">[ɹʷɒk]</span>
*:Standard Midwestern: <span class="IPA" style="font-family:{{IPA fonts}};">[ɹʷɒk]</span>
*:Australian: <span class="IPA" style="font-family:{{IPA fonts}};">[ɹʷɔk]</span>
*{{audio|en-us-rock.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: <span class="IPA" style="font-family:{{IPA fonts}};">[[Rhymes:English:-ɒk|-ɒk]]</span>

====Homophones====
*[[roc]]

===Etymology 1===
From {{OF.}} ''[[roque]]'', compare French ''[[roche]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} The naturally occurring [[aggregate]] of solid [[mineral]] matter that constitutes a significant part of the earth's crust.
#:*The face of the cliff is solid '''rock'''.
# A mass of stone projecting out of the [[ground]] or [[water]].
#:*The ship crashed on the '''rocks'''.
# A [[boulder]] or large [[stone]].
#:*Some fool has thrown a '''rock''' through my window.
# A large hill or island having no vegetation.
#:*Pearl Rock near Cape Cod is so named because the morning sun makes it gleam like a pearl.
#* Pearl, Wikipedia [http://www.answers.com/topic/paarl]
#*:The location is particularly well known for its Pearl Mountain or "Pearl '''Rock'''". This huge granite rock is formed by three rounded outcrops that make up Pearl Mountain and has been compared in majesty to Uluru (formerly known as '''Ayers Rock''') in Australia."
# {{figuratively}} Something that is strong, stable, and dependable; a person who provides security or support to another.
#*'''1611''': ''[[w:King James Bible|King James Bible]], [[wikisource:Bible, King James, Matthew#Chapter 16|Matthew 16:18]]''
#*:And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this '''rock''' I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
#*'''1991''': Robert Harling and Andrew Bergman, ''[[w:Soapdish|Soapdish]]'', Paramount Pictures
#*:''Celeste Talbert:'' ''She is my '''rock''', my right hand.''
# {{geology}} Any natural material with a distinctive composition of minerals.
# {{slang}} A precious [[stone]] or [[gem]], especially a [[diamond]].
#:*Look at the size of that '''rock''' on her finger!
# A lump or [[cube]] of [[ice]].
#:*I'll have a whisky on the '''rocks''', please.
# {{UK}} {{uncountable}} A type of [[confectionery]] made from sugar in the shape of a stick, traditionally having some text running through its length.
#:*While we're in Brighton, let's get a stick of '''rock'''!
# {{US}} {{slang}} A [[crystalize]]d lump of [[crack cocaine]].
# {{US}} {{slang}} An unintelligent person, especially one who repeats mistakes.
# (South African derogatory.){{slang}} An [[Afrikaner]]
#*rock-spider [http://www.sanparks.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=3264]
#*:Being an Afrikaner, I have been referred to many times as being a "rock".
# {{US}} {{slang}} In [[poker]], an extremely conservative player who is willing to play only the very strongest hands.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''natural mineral aggregate''): [[stone]]
*(''projecting mass of rock'''): [[cliff]]
*(''boulder or large stone''): [[boulder]], [[pebble]], [[stone]]
*(''hill or island without vegetation''):
*(''something strong, stable, and dependable''): [[foundation]], [[support]]
*(''distinctive composition of minerals''):
*(''precious stone or gem''): [[gem]], [[diamond]]
*(''lump of ice): [[ice]], [[ice cube]]
*(''confectionery made from sugar''):
*(''crystalized lump of crack cocaine''): [[crack]]
*(''unintelligent person''):
*(''Afrikaner''): [[Afrikaner]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|natural mineral aggregate}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[rots]]
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[صخرة]]}} (ṣaxra) {{f}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܟܐܦܐ]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
*: Hebrew: [[כאפא]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[quer]] {{m}}, [[roc]] {{m}}, [[roca]] {{f}}, [[pedra]] {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|stijena|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|skála|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|steen|m}}, {{t+|nl|rots}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kallio}}
* French: {{t+|fr|roche|f}}, {{t+|fr|roc|m}}
* German: [[Fels]] {{m}}, [[Gestein]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πέτρα|f|tr=pétra|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|roccia|f}}
* Maltese: [[ġebla]] {{f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|stein|m}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|stan|m|alt=stān|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: [[skała]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: [[rocha]] {{f}}
* Russian: ([[горный|горная]]) [[порода]] ((górnaja) poróda) {{f}}
* Serbian: [[stena]], [[kamen]], [[kamenica]], [[skala]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|skala|f}}, {{t+|sl|kamen|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|piedra|f}}, {{t+|es|roca|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|berg|c}}
* Vietnamese: [[đá]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mass of projecting rock}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[صخرة]]}} {{IPAchar|(ʂáχra)}} {{f}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܟܐܦܐ]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
*: Hebrew: [[כאפא]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[roc]] {{m}}, [[roca]] {{f}}, [[pedra]] {{f}}
* Chinese: [[石頭]], [[石头]] (shítóu)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|stijena|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|skála|f}}
* Dutch: [[klif]], [[rots#Dutch|rots]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kivi}}, {{t+|fi|kari}}
* French: {{t|fr|rocher|m}}
* German [[Felsen]] {{m}}, [[Fels]] {{m}}, [[Klippe]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szikla}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|roccia|f}}
* Japanese: [[岩]] (iwa)
* Korean: [[바위]] (bawi)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|klippe|m}}
* Portuguese: [[rocha]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[скала]] (skalá) {{f}}, [[утёс]] (utjós) {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|skala|f}}
* Spanish: [[roca]] {{f}}, [[peñasco]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|klippa|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|large stone or boulder}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[rots]]
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܟܐܦܐ]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
*: Hebrew: [[כאפא]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[quer]] {{m}}, [[roca]] {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|stijena|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kámen|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rots}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kivi}}
* French: {{t|fr|rocher|m}}, {{t+|fr|roc|m}}
* German: [[Felsbrocken]] {{m}}, [[Felsblock]] {{m}}, ''erratic:'' [[Findling]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szikla}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|roccia|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|kampestein|m}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|carr|m|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|clifstan|m|alt=clifstān|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: [[skała]] {{f}}, [[głaz]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[rocha]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|stană|f}}
* Russian: [[камень]] (kámen’) {{m}}, [[валун]] (valún) {{m}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|stena}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|skala|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|skala|f}}, {{t+|sl|kamen|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|peña|f}}
* Swedish: [[klippblock]] {{n}}, [[stenblock]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hill or island without vegetation}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[roc]] {{m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rots}}
* Finnish: [[kallio]] (hill), [[luoto]] (island)
* German: [[Klippe]] {{f}}, [[Felsen]] {{m}}, [[Schäre]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|klippe|m}}
* Portuguese: [[rochedo]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[скала]] (skalá) {{f}}, [[утёс]] (utjós) {{m}}
Serbian: [[stena]]
* Swedish: [[skär]] {{n}} (''island'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something strong, stable, and dependable}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[rots]]
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܟܐܦܐ]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
*: Hebrew: [[כאפא]] (kē'pā, kē'po) {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|steen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kallio}}
* German [[Fels]] {{m}}, [[Fels in der Brandung]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|klippe|m}}
* Russian: [[опора]] {{f}}, [[фундамент]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|klippa|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distinctive composition of minerals}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|grót|xs=Faroese}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kivilaji}}
* German: [[Gestein]] {{n}}
* Norwegian: [[bergart]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[порода]] (poróda) {{f}}
* Swedish: [[bergart]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|precious stone or gem}}
<!-- Only informal expressions, please -->
* [[Catalan]]: [[pedra]] ([[preciosa]]) {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kivi}}
* French: [[caillou]],[[diam]] {{m}} (diamond)
* German: [[Klunker]] {{m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πέτρα|f|sc=Grek}} (pétra)
* Norwegian: [[edelstein]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[pedra]] {{f}}
* Russian: ([[драгоценный]]) [[камень]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[piedra]] ([[preciosa]]) {{f}}
* Swedish: [[ädelsten]] {{c}} (''generally''), [[diamant]] {{c}} (''especially'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lump of ice}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jääkuutio}}, {{t+|fi|jää|alt=jäät}}
* Norwegian: [[isbit]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[cubo]] (de gelo) {{m}}
* Russian: ''on the rocks''&nbsp;— [[со льдом]]
* Swedish: [[isbit]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|confectionary made from sugar}}
* Dutch: [[kandij]], [[suikerstok]]
* Finnish: [[tikkunekku]]
* French: {{t|fr|sucre d'orge}}
* German: [[Kandiszucker]] {{m}}, [[Zuckerstange]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[kandissukker]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[леденец]] {{m}}, [[карамель]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[polkagris]] {{c}} (''approximately'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|crystalized lump of crack cocaine}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|crack}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[крэк]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|piedra|n}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|crack|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unintelligent person}}
* Finnish: [[tollo]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[тупица]] {{c}}, [[бивень]] {{m}} {{italbrac|colloquial}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Afrikaner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[африкандер]] {{m}}, [[бур]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[rots]] {{c}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[kő]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[roccia]] {{f}} (1,2), [[pietra]] {{f}} (2), [[sasso]] {{m}} (3), [[masso]] {{m}} (4), [[scoglio]] {{m}} (5)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[peña]] {{f}} (1,2), [[roca]] {{f}} (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[jiwe]] (2), [[mawe]] ''pl (noun 5/6)'' (1,2)

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
*[[bedrock]]
*[[between a rock and a hard place]]
*[[dumb as rocks]]
*[[get one's rocks off]]
*[[hit the rock]]
*[[hit the rocks]]
*[[on the rocks]]
*[[rock bottom]]
*[[rock crystal]]
*[[rock dove]]
*[[Rock English]]
*[[rockery]]
{{mid2}}
*[[rock garden]]
*[[rock hard]]
*[[rockiness]]
*[[Rock of Ages]]
*[[rock pigeon]]
*[[rock rabbit]]
*[[rock salt]]
*[[rock scorpion]]
*[[rocky]]
*[[see rocks ahead]]
*[[steady as a rock]]
*[[sunken rock]]
*[[the Rock]]
*[[The Rock]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{ME.}} ''[[rokken]]'' < {{OE.}} ''[[roccian]]''. Cognates include Old Norse ''[[rykkja]]'' ‘pull, tear, move’ (Swedish ''[[rycka]]'' ‘pull, pluck’), Middle Dutch ''[[rucken#Middle Dutch|rucken]], Old High German ''[[rucchan]]'' (German ''[[rücken]]'', ''[[rucken#German|rucken]]'' ‘move jerkily’). The noun is a derivation of the verb.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} & {{intransitive}} To [[move]] gently back and forth.
#:*'''Rock''' the baby to sleep.
#:*The empty swing '''rocked''' back and forth in the wind.
# {{transitive}} To cause to shake or sway violently.
#:*Don't '''rock''' the boat.
# {{intransitive}} To sway or tilt violently back and forth.
#:*The boat '''rocked''' at anchor.
# {{transitive}} & {{intransitive}} To be washed and panned in a cradle or in a rocker (with reference to [[ore]] etc)
#:*The ores had been '''rocked''' and laid out for inspection.
# {{transitive}} to disturb the emotional equilibrium of; to [[disturb]] or [[distress]]
#:*Downing Street has been '''rocked''' by yet another sex scandal.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''move gently back and forth''): [[sway]], [[swing]]
*(''cause to shake or sway violently''): [[agitate]], [[churn]], [[convulse]], [[shake]]
*(''sway or tilt violently''): [[shake]]
*(''be washed and panned''):
*(''disturb the mental or emotional equilibrium''): [[upset]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|move gently back and forth}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[wieg]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|wiegen}}
* Finnish: [[keinuttaa]] (tr.), [[keinua]] (intr.)
* French: [[remuer]], ''babies :'' [[bercer]]
* German: [[schwanken]], [[schaukeln]], ''baby:'' [[wiegen]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|cullare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[gynge]]
* Portuguese: [[embalar]], [[balançar]]
* Russian: [[качать]] (kačát’); [[качаться]] (kačát’sja); (''rock to sleep'') [[укачивать]] (ukáčivat’), [[баюкать]] (bajúkat’)
* Serbian: [[ljuljati]], [[klackati]]
* Slovene: [[zibati]]
* Swedish: [[gunga]], [[vagga]] (''baby''), [[vyssja]] (''baby'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to shake or sway violently}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[skud]]
* Finnish: [[keikuttaa]]
* French: [[secouer]], ''boat :'' faire [[tanguer]]
* Norwegian: [[riste]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[balançar]], [[abalar]]
* Russian: [[качать]] (kačát’), [[раскачивать]] (raskáčivat’)
* Serbian: [[drmati]], [[uzdrmati]]
* Slovene: [[zibati]]
* Swedish: [[skaka]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sway or tilt violently back and forth}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[waggel]]
* Dutch: [[schommelen]], [[waggelen]]
* Finnish: [[keikkua]]
* German: [[schaukeln]], ''naut.'' [[stampfen]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|cullare}}
* Norwegian: [[gynge]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[balançar]], [[abalar]]
* Russian: [[качаться]] (kačát’sja), [[раскачиваться]] (raskáčivat’sja)
* Serbian: [[drmati]]
* Slovene: [[zibati]]
* Swedish: [[kränga]] (''vehicle'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be washed and panned}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huuhtoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|disturb the mental or emotional equilibrium}}
* Finnish: [[ravisuttaa]]
* German: [[auwühlen]], [[schockieren]]
* Norwegian: [[ryste]], [[sjokkere]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[balançar]], [[abalar]]
* Russian: [[потрясать]] (potrjasát’)
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|potresti}}
* Swedish: [[chocka]], [[skaka]]
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[sonar]] rock (1); [[exceller]] (2); [[balanciar]] [[se]], [[oscillar]], [[vacillar]] (3)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[balanciar]] (2), (''a baby in a cradle'') [[cunar]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[bibi]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[rock with laughter]]
*[[rocker]]
*[[rockily]]
*[[rocking chair]]
*[[rocky]]
*[[rocky chair]]
*[[rock the boat]]
*[[rock-a-bye]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An act of rocking.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''act of rocking''):

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|act of rocking}}
* Finnish: [[keinunta]], [[keinutus]], [[keikunta]], [[keikutus]], [[ravistelu]]
* French: {{t|fr|secousse|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[gungning]] {{n}}, [[vaggande]] {{n}}, [[vyssjande]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[rocca]] (1, 3)
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[carraig]] ''f2''
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[petrus]] (1)<!--this must be modern Latin:, rock (2)-->
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[piatră]] {{f}}, [[rocă]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[skala#Slovak|skala]] {{f}} (1, 3)

===Etymology 3===
Shortened from '''[[rock and roll]]'''. Since the meaning of '''rock''' has adapted to mean a simpler, more modern, [[metal]]-like genre, "rock and roll" has generally been left referring to earlier forms such as that of the 1950s, notably more [[swing]]-oriented style.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# A style of music characterized by basic drum-beat, generally [[4/4]] [[riff]]s, based on (usually electric) guitar, [[bass guitar]], drums, and vocals.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''style of music''):

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|style of music}}
* [[Catalan]]: rock
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|rok|m}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|rock|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rokki}}, {{t+|fi|rock}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rock|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rock|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ροκ|n|sc=Grek}} or {{f}} (rok)
* [[Interlingua]]: rock
* Italian: {{t+|it|rock|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ロック|tr=rokku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[록]] (rok)
* Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[摇滾樂]]|[[摇滚乐]]}} (yáogǔnyuè)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rock|m}}
* Russian: [[рок]] (rok) {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|rock|m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|rock|m}}
* Swedish: [[rock#Swedish|rock]] {{c}}, [[rock'n'roll]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To play, perform, or enjoy rock music, especially with a lot of skill or energy.
#:*Let's '''rock'''!
# {{intransitive}} {{slang}} To be very [[favourable]] or [[skilful]].
#:*Chocolate '''rocks'''.
# {{transitive}} to [[thrill]] or [[excite]], especially with rock music
#:*Let's '''rock''' this joint!

=====Synonyms=====
*(''play, perform, or enjoy rock music''):
*(''be very favourable or skilful''): [[rule]]
*(''thrill or excite''):

=====Antonyms=====
*(''be very favourable or skilful''): [[suck]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to play, perform, or enjoy rock music}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rokata}}
* German: [[rocken]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[rocka]], [[spela]] [[rock#Swedish|rock]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''slang'': to be very favourable or skilful}}
* Finnish: [[rulettaa]]
* German [[rocken]] ''(but usually the English term is used)''
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[рулить]] (rulít’)
* Swedish: [[rocka]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to thrill or excite}}
* Finnish: [[panna]] [[vauhti|vauhtia]]
* German: [[aufmischen]] ''(originally means "beat up")''
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
*[[folk rock]]
*[[glam rock]]
*[[punk rock]]
*[[punk rocker]]
*[[rocker]]

=====Related terms=====
*[[rock and roll]]

===Etymology 4===
From Middle Dutch [[rocke]] (Dutch [[rok]]), Middle Low German [[rocken]], or Old Norse [[rokkr]] (Icelandic / Faroese [[rokkur]], Danish [[rok]], Swedish [[spinnrock]] ‘spinning wheel’). Cognate with Old High German [[rocko]] ‘distaff’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{countable}} [[distaff]]
# {{uncountable}} The [[flax]] or [[wool]] on a [[distaff]].

=====Synonyms=====
*(''distaff''): [[distaff]]
*(''flax or wool''):

=====Translations=====
'''distaff'''
: ''See'' '''[[distaff]]'''

{{trans-top|flax or wool on a distaff}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[cork]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''rock''' {{c}}

# [[rock#Etymology 3|rock]], [[rock and roll]]
# [[coat]], [[overcoat]]

[[Category:South African English]]
[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

[[ar:rock]]
[[de:rock]]
[[el:rock]]
[[fr:rock]]
[[gl:rock]]
[[hy:rock]]
[[io:rock]]
[[id:rock]]
[[it:rock]]
[[ku:rock]]
[[lt:rock]]
[[hu:rock]]
[[pl:rock]]
[[pt:rock]]
[[ru:rock]]
[[simple:rock]]
[[sl:rock]]
[[fi:rock]]
[[sv:rock]]
[[ta:rock]]
[[te:rock]]
[[vi:rock]]
[[zh:rock]]