{{rfv}}
==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A traditional loose-fitting garment worn by chiefs, blacksmiths, warriors, and secret society officials in certain [[Sierra Leone]]an tribes, particularly the [[Limba]], [[Koranko]], and [[Yalunka]].  The ronko (from the Limba word ''hu-ronko'') is made of home-spun "country cloth."  It is a knee-length garment with wide sleeves.  The color is generally rusty-brown and resembles the color of dried blood.  The ronko is typically covered in graphic symbols stamped in black.  These secret symbols are said to be part of the garment's power.  The ronko is worn by warriors in battle and is said to protect them against both natural and supernatural weapons of war.  Sierra Leoneans sometimes call the ronko "African bulletproof."  Variations of this garment were worn by Kamajoh warriors during the Sierra Leone civil war (1991-2000).
#*'''1986''' June 29, Associated Press, "Secret Societies Thriving," ''Sunday Intelligencer'' (Doylestown, Pennsylvania), page A-18 [http://www.newspaperarchive.com/PdfViewer.aspx?img=26962689]:
#*:Many campaign posters showed candidates wearing "'''ronkos'''," or rust-colored cotton vests bathed in special herbs to guard them against invisible bullets.
#*'''1994''', Joseph A. Opala, "'Ecstatic Renovation!': Street Art Celebrating Sierra Leone's 1992 Revolution," ''African Affairs'' 93(317), 210 [http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0001-9909(199404)93%3A371%3C195%3A'RSACS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-5]:
#*:The same mural shows a government soldier, called 'Commando Spider', dressed in a '''''ronko''''', but slaying a rebel, presumably behind enemy lines.
#*'''2005''' February 9, "Mr Witness", testimony in Special Court for Sierra Leone Case No. SCSL-2004-14-T [http://www.sc-sl.org/Transcripts/CDF-020905.pdf], page 14:
#*:Their clothes? It was '''ronkos''' and the short trousers.

===Quotations===
http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=980DE2DC1E3BF932A15756C0A9669C8B63&sec=&spon=&pagewanted=2

[[Category:Clothing]]