{{wikipedia|dab=rough}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|ruh|rūh|lang=ang}}, cognate with West Frisian {{term|rûch||rough|lang=fy}}, Low Saxon (Low German) {{term|ruuch||rough|lang=nds}}, High German {{term|rau||rough|lang=de}}, (old spelling) {{term|rauh||rough|lang=de}}, Middle High German {{term|rûch||rough|lang=gmh}}, (variants) ''[[rûhe]], [[rûh]], [[rouch]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɹʌf/}}
* {{audio|en-us-rough.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌf}}
* {{homophones|ruff}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|rough|er}}

# Having a [[texture]] that has much [[friction]]. Not [[smooth]]; [[uneven]].
#* '''1922''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}}, ''{{w|Jacob's Room}}'' Chapter 1
#*: The rock was one of those tremendously solid brown, or rather black, rocks which emerge from the sand like something primitive. '''Rough''' with crinkled limpet shells and sparsely strewn with locks of dry seaweed, a small boy has to stretch his legs far apart, and indeed to feel rather heroic, before he gets to the top.
# [[approximate|Approximate]].
#: ''A rough estimate''.
# [[turbulent|Turbulent]].
#: ''The sea was '''rough'''.''
# [[difficult|Difficult]]; [[trying]].
#: ''Being a teenager these days can be '''rough'''.''
# [[crude|Crude]]; [[unrefined]]
#: ''His manners are a bit '''rough''', but he means well.''
# [[violent|Violent]]; not [[careful]] or [[subtle]]
#: ''This box has been through some '''rough''' handling.''

====Antonyms====
* [[smooth]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not smooth}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[خشن]]}} {{IPAchar|(xášen)}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|aspre}}
* Chinese: [[粗魯]], [[粗鲁]] (cūlǔ)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrubý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ruw}}, {{t-|nl|ruig}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kare}}
* Finnish: [[rosoinen]], {{t|fi|karkea}}, {{t|fi|karhea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rude}}, {{t+|fr|rugueux}}
* German: {{t+|de|rau}}, {{t+|de|grob}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|durva}}, {{t|hu|érdes}}, {{t|hu|egyenetlen}}
* Ido: [[aspera]]
* Irish: {{t-|ga|garbh|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|ruvido}}, {{t-|it|rugoso}}
* Japanese: [[でこぼこ]]な (dekobokona)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[거친]] (geochin)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[دڕ]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|asper}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|šiurkštus}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|áspero}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|dur}}, {{t-|ro|aspru}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шероховатый|tr=šeroχovátyj}}, {{t+|ru|грубый|tr=grúbyj}}, {{t+|ru|жёсткий|tr=žóstkij}}
* Scots: [[roch]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|áspero|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|ojämn}}
* Telugu: [[గరుకు]] (garuku)
* West Frisian: {{t+|fy|rûch|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|approximate}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|aproximat}}, {{t|ca|quasi}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hrubý|m}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|ligilähedane}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|karkea}}
* French: {{t+|fr|approximatif|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|hozzávetőleges}}, {{t|hu|nyers}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|approssimato}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aproximado|m}}, {{t-|es|aproximativo|m}}, {{t|es|casi}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|సుమారు|tr=sumaaru}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|turbulent}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|bouřlivý |m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|aallokkoinen}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|zord}}, {{t|hu|kemény}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|garbh|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|mosso}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|turbulento|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|difficult}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|difícil}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nepříjemný|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kova}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|kemény}}, {{t|hu|nehéz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|difficile}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|difícil|m|f}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|కష్టమైన|tr=kashTamaina}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|crude}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|rude|m|f}}, {{t|ca|tosc|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|surový|m}}, {{t|cs|neomalený|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|karkea}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|durva}}, {{t|hu|faragatlan}}, {{t|hu|műveletlen}}, {{t|hu|nyers}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rude}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|rudis}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|tosco|m}}, {{t-|es|rudo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Chinese: [[粗躁]] (cūzào)
* French: [[rugueux]]
* [[Ido]]: [[aspera]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[áspero]]
* Telugu: [[ఉరామరిక]] (uraamarika), [[సుమారు]] (sumaaru), [[రమారమి]] (ramaarami) (2), [[కల్లోలం]] (kallOlaM) (3), [[మోటు]] (mOTu) (5), [[మొరటు]] (moraTu) (6)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The [[unmowed]] part of a [[golf course]].
# A [[crude]] person.
# {{cricket}} A [[scuffed]] and [[roughened]] area of the [[pitch]], where the [[bowler]]'s feet fall, used as a [[target]] by [[spin bowler]]s because of its [[unpredictable]] [[bounce]].
# The raw material from which [[facet]]ed or [[cabochon]] [[gem]]s are created.
# A quick sketch, similar to a thumbnail, but larger and more detailed. Meant for artistic brainstorming and a vital step in the design process.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|unmowed part of golf-course}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|raf (vyšší tráva kolem fairwaye)}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|karheikko}}, {{t|fi|raffi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Rough|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[create]] in an approximate form.
#: '''''Rough''' in the shape first, then polish the details.''
# To physically [[assault]] someone in [[retribution]].
#: ''The gangsters '''roughed''' him up a little.''
# {{ice hockey}} To commit the offense of [[roughing]], i.e. to punch another player.
# To render rough; to [[roughen]].
# To [[break in]] (a horse, etc.), especially for [[military]] purposes.
#: {{rfquotek|Crabb}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to create in approximate form}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|luonnostella}}, {{t|fi|hahmotella}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to physically assault}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pahoinpidellä}}, {{t|fi|murjoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ice hockey: to perform roughing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väkivaltaisuus|alt=olla väkivaltainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[diamond in the rough]]
* [[roughhouse]]
* [[roughness]]
* [[rough in]]
* [[rough out]]
* [[rough up]]
* [[bit of rough]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:rough]]
[[cs:rough]]
[[cy:rough]]
[[de:rough]]
[[et:rough]]
[[es:rough]]
[[fa:rough]]
[[fr:rough]]
[[ko:rough]]
[[io:rough]]
[[id:rough]]
[[it:rough]]
[[kn:rough]]
[[ku:rough]]
[[li:rough]]
[[hu:rough]]
[[mg:rough]]
[[ml:rough]]
[[my:rough]]
[[nl:rough]]
[[ja:rough]]
[[pl:rough]]
[[pt:rough]]
[[ru:rough]]
[[simple:rough]]
[[fi:rough]]
[[sv:rough]]
[[tl:rough]]
[[ta:rough]]
[[te:rough]]
[[th:rough]]
[[tr:rough]]
[[vi:rough]]
[[zh:rough]]