{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/ˈɹaʊnd/}}, {{SAMPA|/"raUnd/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-round.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|aʊnd}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|rond|lang=fro}}-, {{term|rund|lang=fr}}- ( > French {{term|rond|lang=fr}}), representing an earlier *{{term||rodond|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|rotundus|lang=la}} ( > Italian {{term|rotondo|lang=it}}, Provençal {{term|redon|lang=oc}}, Spanish {{term|redondo|lang=es}} etc.). The noun developed partly from the adjective and partly from the corresponding {{etyl|fr}} noun {{term|rond|lang=fr}}. Compare {{term|rotund}} and {{term|rotunda}}.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# [[circular|Circular]] or [[cylindrical]]; having a [[circular]] cross-section in one direction.
#: ''We sat at a '''round''' table to make conversation easier.''
# [[spherical|Spherical]]; shaped like a [[ball]]; having a [[circular]] cross-section in more than one direction.
#: ''The ancient Egyptian demonstrated that the Earth is '''round''', not flat.''
# Lacking sharp [[angle]]s; having gentle [[curve]]s.
#: ''Our child's bed has '''round''' corners for safety.''
# [[plump|Plump]]
# [[complete|Complete]], [[whole]], not lacking.
#: ''The baker sold us a '''round''' dozen.''
# {{context|of a [[number]]}} Convenient for [[#Verb|round]]ing other numbers to; for example, ending in a [[zero]].
#: ''One hundred is a nice '''round''' number.''
# {{linguistics}} [[pronounce|Pronounced]] with the mouth [[open]] in the shape of an "O".

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|circular}} [[circular]], [[cylindrical]], [[discoid]]
* {{sense|spherical}} [[spherical]]
* {{sense|of corners that lack sharp angles}} [[rounded]]
* {{sense|plump}} [[plump]], [[rotund]]
* {{sense|not lacking}} [[complete]], [[entire]], [[whole]]
* {{sense|of a number}} [[rounded]]
* {{sense|pronounced with the mouth open}} [[rounded]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[round angle]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|circular or cylindrical}}
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|na'tepelejka}}
* Chinese: [[圓]], [[圆]] (yuán)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kulatý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rond|m}}, {{t+|fr|ronde|f}}
*: [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|reont}}
* German: {{t+|de|rund}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|cirkla|xs=Ido}}, {{t+|io|cirklala|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rotondo|m}}, {{t-|it|tondo|m}}
* Japanese: [[丸い]] (まるい, marui)
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|rotundus|m}}
* Lithuanian: [[apvalus]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|круглый|tr=krúglyj}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cruinn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[okrogel]] {{m}}, [[okrogla]] {{f}}, [[okroglo]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|redondo|m}}, {{t+|es|circular|m|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rund}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yuvarlak}}
* Vietnamese: [[xoe]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spherical}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kulatý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rond|m}}, {{t+|fr|ronde|f}}
*: [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|reont}}
* German: {{t+|de|rund}}
* Japanese: [[丸い]] (まるい, marui)
* Latin: [[globosus|globōsus]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: [[apvalus]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|круглый|tr=krúglyj}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cruinn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[okrogel]] {{m}}, [[okrogla]] {{f}}, [[okroglo]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|redondo|m}}, {{t+|es|esférico|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rund}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|küresel}}, {{t+|tr|yuvarlak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of corners that lack sharp angles}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kulatý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afgerond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}, {{t+|fi|pyöristää|alt=pyöristetty}}
* German: [[abgerundet]]
* Lithuanian: [[užapvalintas]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|круглый|tr=krúglyj}}, {{t+|ru|закруглённый|tr=zakrugl'ónnyj}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cruinn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|crom|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[zaobljen]] {{m}}, [[zaobljena]] {{f}}, [[zaobljeno]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|redondo|m}}, {{t-|es|redonda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rund}}, {{t|sv|rundad}}, {{t|sv|avrundad}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|yumuşak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|plump}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dik}}, {{t+|nl|mollig}}, {{t+|nl|rond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}, {{t+|fi|pullea}}, {{t+|fi|pulska}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rond|m}}, {{t+|fr|ronde|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|mollig}}, {{t+|de|rund}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rotondo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|полный|tr=pólnyj}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Slovene: [[okrogel]] {{m}}, [[okrogla]] {{f}}, [[okroglo]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|complete, not lacking}}
* Chinese: [[圓]], [[圆]] (yuán)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}, {{t+|fi|täysi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|complet|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|rund}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|rotundus|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|полный|tr=pólnyj}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cruinn|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|redondo|m}}, {{t-|es|redonda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|allsidig}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tam}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a number that has been rounded off}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kulatý|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|rond}}, {{t+|nl|afgerond}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}, {{t+|fi|pyöristää|alt=pyöristetty}}
* French: {{t+|fr|arrondi|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|rund}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: [[suapvalintas]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|круглый|tr=krúglyj}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|avrundad}}, {{t|sv|rund}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tam}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pronounced with the mouth in the shape of an "O"}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöreä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|arrondi|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yuvarlak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{Arab|[[مستدير]]}} {{IPAchar|(mustadīr)}}
* {{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[kerek]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[ronda]]
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[둥근]] (dunggeun)
* {{ttbc|Neapolitan}}: [[tònno]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[okrągły]] {{m}}, [[okrągła]] {{f}}, [[okrągłe]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[redondo]]
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[rund]]
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[tròn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
* [[roundabout]]
* [[round dozen]]
* [[round-table]]
{{mid2}}
* [[round the clock]]
* [[round trip]]
* [[rounded vowel]]
{{bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A circular object.
#*'''1955''', William Golding, ''The Inheritors'', Faber and Faber 2005, p. 50:
#*:All at once the sun was through, a '''round''' of dulled silver, racing slantwise through the clouds yet always staying in the same place.
# A circular or repetitious route; [[hospital rounds]].
#: ''The guards have started their '''rounds'''; the prisoner should be caught soon.''
# An general [[outburst]] from a group of people at an event.
#: ''The candidate got a '''round''' of applause after every sentence or two.''
# A [[song]] that is sung by groups of people with each [[subset]] of people starting at a [[different]] [[time]].
# A [[serving]] of something; a portion of something to each person in a group.
#: ''They brought us a [[round]] of drinks about every thirty minutes.''
# A single individual portion or [[dose]] of medicine.
#* '''2009''', Patrick Condon, "Boy with cancer, mom return home", Associated Press, printed in ''Austin American-Statesman'', 2009 May 26, page A4:
#*: Daniel underwent one '''round''' of chemotherapy in February but stopped after that single treatment, citing religious beliefs.
# {{art}} A long-bristled, circular-headed paintbrush used in oil and acrylic painting.
# A firearm [[cartridge]], [[bullet]], or any individual ammunition projectile. Originally referring to the spherical projectile [[ball]] of a [[smoothbore]] firearm. Compare [[round shot]] and [[solid shot]].
# {{sports}} One of the specified pre-determined segments of the total time of a sport event, such as a boxing or wrestling [[match]], during which contestants compete before being signaled to stop.
# {{sports}} A stage in a [[competition]].
#: ''qualifying '''rounds''' of the championship''
# {{sport}} In some sports', e.g. [[golf]] or [[showjumping]]: one complete way around the [[course]].
# {{context|engineering|drafting|CAD}} A rounded [[relief]] or [[cut]] at an edge, especially an outside edge, added for a finished appearance and to soften sharp edges.
# A strip of material with a circular face that covers an edge, gap, or crevice for decorative, sanitary, or security purposes.
#: ''All furniture in the nursery had '''rounds''' on the edges and in the crevices.''
# {{context|butchery}} The [[hindquarters]] of a [[bovine]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|hindquarters of a bovine}} [[rump]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|rounded inside edge}} [[fillet]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|circular object}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ympyrä}}
* French: {{t|fr|rond|m}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|خڕ|tr=xirr|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çember}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|circular or repetitious route}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|obchůzka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}
* French: {{t|fr|ronde|f}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|obchód}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обход|m|tr=obχód}}
* Slovene: [[obhod]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}, {{t|sv|varv}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|outburst}}
* Finnish: "other structures used"
* French: {{t|fr|éclat|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|song}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kánon}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|canon|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaanon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|canon|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kanon}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|serving}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|runda|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tournée|f}}
* Kurdish:
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kolejka}}
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|جه‌م|tr=cem|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|runda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|circular paintbrush}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pyörösivellin}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|individual ammunition shell}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|patruuna}}, {{t-|fi|ammus}}
* French: {{t|fr|coup|m}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|nabój}}, {{t+|pl|pocsk}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|patron}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|mermi}}, {{t+|tr|kurşun}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|period in a boxing match}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|回合|tr=huíhé|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kolo|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erä}}
* German: {{t+|de|Runde|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kolejka}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|раунд|m|tr=ráund}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|runda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rond}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|raund}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stage of a sports competition}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|回合|tr=huíhé|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}, {{t+|fi|erä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|épreuve|f}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cuairt|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|golf etc: way around the course}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}
* French: {{t|fr|tour|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cuairt|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}, {{t|sv|golfrunda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hindquarters of a bovine for butchering}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* German: [[Runde]] {{f}} (4,5)
{{trans-mid}}
* Vietnamese: [[loạt]] (1)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[round of applause]]

====Preposition====
{{infl|en|preposition}}

# {{rare|_|in US}} Alternative form of [[around]].
#: ''I look '''round''' the room quick to make sure it's neat looking.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[go round]]
* [[look round]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|[[around]]}}

====Adverb====
{{en-adv|-}}

# Alternative form of [[around]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|[[around]]}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rounds|rounding|rounded}}

# To shape something into a [[curve]].
#: ''The carpenter '''rounded''' the edges of the table.''
# {{context|with "out"}} To [[finish]]; to [[complete]]; to fill out.
#: ''She '''rounded out''' her education with only a single mathematics class.''
# To [[approximate]] a [[number]], especially a decimal number by the closest whole number.
#: ''Ninety-five '''rounds''' up to one hundred.''
# To [[turn]] past a boundary.
#: ''Helen watched him until he '''rounded''' the corner.''
# To turn and attack someone or thing.
#: ''As a group of policemen went past him, one of them '''rounded''' on him, grabbing him by the arm.''
# {{baseball}} To advance to [[home plate]].
#: ''And the runners '''round''' the bases on the double by Jones.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[round off]]
* [[round out]]
* [[round up]]
* [[round down]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to shape into a curve}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zaokrouhlit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöristää}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arredondar}}
* Russian: [[округлять]] (okrugl'át') {{impf}}, [[округлить]] (okruglít') {{pf.}}, [[скруглять]] (skrugl'át') {{impf}}, [[скруглить]] (skruglít') {{pf.}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cruinnich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[zaobliti]]
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to round out}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zakončit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suorittaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda av}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to approximate a number}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zaokrouhlit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöristää}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kerekít}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zaokrąglać}}
* Portuguese: [[arredondar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[округлять]] (okrugl'át') {{impf}}, [[округлить]] (okruglít') {{pf.}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Slovene: [[zaokrožiti]]
* Swedish: {{t|sv|avrunda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to turn past a boundary}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zahnout}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kääntyä}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dobrar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[огибать]] (ogibát') {{impf}}, [[обогнуть]] (obognút') {{impf}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|runda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to turn and attack}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vrhnout}} se
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|roond|xs=Scots}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|vända}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [['round]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|rounen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|runian|rūnian|to whisper, talk low, talk secrets, consipre, talk secretly|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|rūnōjanan|to talk secrets, whisper, decide|raunianan|to investigate, examine, prove|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|(e)rewə-||(e)rwō-|to trace, find out, look out|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|roun||to converse with in whispers, speak privately|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|gml|-}} {{term|runen|rūnen|to whisper|lang=gml}}, {{etyl|dum|-}} {{term|ruinen|to whisper|lang=dum}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|raunen||to whisper, murmur|lang=de}}, {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|run|rūn|whisper, secret, mystery|lang=ang}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|röna||to meet with, experience|lang=sv}}. More at {{l|en|rune}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive|archaic|or|dialectal|Northern England|Scotland}} To [[speak]] in a [[low]] [[tone]]; [[whisper]]; speak [[secret]]ly; take [[counsel]].
# {{transitive|archaic|or|dialectal|Northern England|Scotland}} To [[address]] or speak to in a whisper, [[utter]] in a whisper.

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|roun|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|run|rūn|whisper, secret, mystery|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|rūnō||raunō|a whisper, secret, secret sign|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|(e)rewə-||(e)rwō-|to trace, find out, look out|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|roun|lang=sco}}, {{term|round||a whisper, secret story|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Rune||rune|lang=de}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|rön||findings, observations, experience|lang=sv}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{archaic|or|dialectal|Northern England|Scotland}} A [[whisper]]; [[whispering]].
# {{archaic|or|dialectal|Northern England|Scotland}} [[discourse|Discourse]]; [[song]].

====Statistics====
* {{rank|morning|money|door|276|round|kind|form|hundred}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Drinking]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''round''' {{m|inv}}

# {{sports|lang=it}} [[#English|round]]
# [[#English|round]] (''session or series'')

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[ar:round]]
[[cy:round]]
[[da:round]]
[[et:round]]
[[es:round]]
[[fa:round]]
[[fr:round]]
[[gl:round]]
[[ko:round]]
[[hr:round]]
[[io:round]]
[[it:round]]
[[kn:round]]
[[kk:round]]
[[sw:round]]
[[ku:round]]
[[lt:round]]
[[li:round]]
[[hu:round]]
[[ml:round]]
[[my:round]]
[[nl:round]]
[[ja:round]]
[[oc:round]]
[[pl:round]]
[[ru:round]]
[[simple:round]]
[[fi:round]]
[[sv:round]]
[[ta:round]]
[[te:round]]
[[th:round]]
[[tr:round]]
[[vi:round]]
[[zh:round]]