{{also|rußet}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|rŭs'ət}}, {{IPA|/ˈrʌsət/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʌsɪt|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|rousset}}, from {{m|fro|rous}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|russus||reddish}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A [[coarse]], [[reddish]]-[[brown]], [[homespun]] [[fabric]].
# Country dress; homespun cloth.
# A [[red]]dish-[[brown]] [[color]].
#: {{color panel|80461B}}
# Variety of [[apple]] with russet-colored, rough skin.
# Variety of [[potato]] with dark gray-brown, rough skin.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fabric}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vadmal|n|c}} {{qualifier|historical in this tense: red-brown, coarse fabric}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|color}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|donnrua|m}} {{qualifier|of cloth}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|あずき色|tr=azukiiro}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ocre|m}}, {{t|es|marrojizo|m}}, {{t|es|marrojiza|f}}, {{t|es|color teja}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|apple}}
* German: {{t+|de|Renette|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|rua-úll|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|reineta|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|potato}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having a reddish-brown color.
#* '''c. 1599–1601''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Hamlet}}'', I. 1:
#*: But, look, the morn, in '''russet''' mantle clad / Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill: {{...}}
## {{lb|en|botany}} Having a rough skin that is reddish-brown or greyish; [[russeted]].
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[gray|Gray]] or [[ash]]-colored.
#* '''c. 1590–1597''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|A Midsummer Night's Dream}}'', III. 2:
#*: When they him spy, / As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, / Or '''russet'''-pated [[chough]]s, many in sort, / Rising and cawing at the gun's report, / Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky, / So, at his sight, away his fellows fly {{...}}
# [[rustic|Rustic]], [[homespun]], [[coarse]], [[plain]].
#* '''c. mid-1590s''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Love's Labour's Lost}}'', V. 2:
#*: Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd / In '''russet''' yeas and honest kersey noes {{...}}
# The condition of leather when its treatment is complete, but it is not yet colored (stained) and polished.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|color}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|donnrua}}
* Japanese: [[あずき色]]の (azukiiro no)
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|marrojizo}}, {{t|es|marrojiza|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rödbrun}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|of apples, pears, etc.|ambitransitive}} To develop reddish-brown spots; to cause russetting.
#* '''2003''', John E. Jackson, [https://books.google.com/books?id=VH8Xwfbnr3wC&pg=PA323&dq=%22to+russet%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwi4xvfT34HRAhUI1WMKHajTBIU4ChDoAQhEMAg#v=onepage&q=%22to%20russet%22&f=false The Biology of Apples and Pears]
#*: Cultivars differ greatly in their propensity to '''russet''': the characteristic is heritable but more than one factor seems to be involved (Brown, 1975).

===Derived terms===
{{der-top}}
* russet apple (see above)
* {{l|en|russeted}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|russeting}}
* russet potato (see above)
{{der-bottom}}

===See also===
{{wikipedia|Russet (disambiguation)|Russet}}
* {{l|en|Appendix:Colors}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|estrus}}
* {{l|en|struse}}
* {{l|en|surest}}

[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]
[[Category:en:Vegetables]]
[[Category:en:Apple cultivars]]

----

==German==

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{standard spelling of|from=SLDE|rußet|lang=de}}

[[cy:russet]]
[[de:russet]]
[[et:russet]]
[[hy:russet]]
[[io:russet]]
[[kn:russet]]
[[ku:russet]]
[[mg:russet]]
[[ml:russet]]
[[my:russet]]
[[pl:russet]]
[[ro:russet]]
[[te:russet]]
[[vi:russet]]
[[zh:russet]]