==Dutch==

===Etymology 1===
From {{proto|Germanic|sind-}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|h₁es-|to be}}, likely influenced by the Proto-Germanic subjunctive *sī-. In many Germanic languages the paradigm of "to be" has been since the time of Proto-Germanic a synthesis of three originally distinct verb stems. The words "ben" and "bent" are from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰuh₂-|to become|title=}}. The words "is" and "zijn" are both derived from {{proto|Indo-European|h₁es-|to be|title=}}. Lastly, the past forms starting with "w-" such as "was" and "waren" are from {{proto|Indo-European|wes-|to reside|title=}}, which still survives as [[wezen]].

====Pronunciation====
{{rfc-level|check placement of Pronunciation}}
* {{audio|Nl-zijn.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|[zɛɪn]}}

===Verb===
'''zijn''' (irregular verb)

# {{intransitive}} To [[be]], to [[exist]].
#: '''''Zijn''' of niet '''zijn''', dat is de vraag.'' &mdash; To be or not to be, that is the question.
# {{context|lang=nl|transitive|copular}} Used to connect a noun to an adjective that describes it.
#: ''De bal '''is''' rond.'' &mdash; The ball is round.
# {{context|lang=nl|transitive|auxiliary}} Used to form the [[perfect tense]] of the [[active voice]] of some verbs, together with a [[past participle]].
#: ''Hij '''is''' hier geweest.'' &mdash; He has been here.
#: '''Note:''' The perfect tense of most other verbs is formed using [[hebben]].
# {{context|lang=nl|transitive|auxiliary}} Used to form the [[perfect tense]] of the [[passive voice]], together with a [[past participle]].
#: ''Ze '''waren''' gered.'' &mdash; They had been saved.
#: ''De muur '''is''' geschilderd.'' &mdash; The wall has been painted.
#: ''De muur zal '''zijn''' geschilderd.'' &mdash; The wall will have been painted.
#: '''Note:''' The [[imperfect tense]] passive is formed using [[worden]].
# {{context|lang=nl|transitive|auxiliary}} Used to form the continuous forms of various tenses, together with '''[[aan het]]'''.
#: ''De man '''was''' aan het lopen.'' &mdash; The man was walking.
# {{intransitive}} To [[go]], to go on a [[trip]] and return.
#: ''Ik '''ben''' even naar de dokter.'' &mdash; I'm going to the doctor for a while.
#: ''Ik ben vandaag naar het strand '''geweest.''' &mdash; I've been to the beach today.
# {{italbrac|lang=nl|transitive|copular|mathematics}} To [[equal]]; used to indicate that the values on either side of an equation are the same.
#: ''Drie keer vijf '''is''' vijftien.'' &mdash; Three times five equals fifteen.
# {{intransitive}} To have the next [[turn]] in a [[game]].
#: ''Jij '''bent''' nu.'' &mdash; It's your turn now.

=====Conjugation=====
{| border=1 rules=all style="border:1px solid #99B3FF; background-color:#f9f9f9; padding:5px; font-size: 95%; width:100%;"
|colspan=8 width=100% align=center|<big>'''[[infinitive|Infinitive]]:''' zijn</big>
|-
|colspan=8 height=9px|
|-
|colspan=4 width=50% align=center|'''[[present tense|Present tense]]'''
|colspan=4 width=50% align=center|'''[[past tense|Past tense]]'''
|-
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[singular|Singular]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[plural|Plural]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[singular|Singular]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[plural|Plural]]'''
|-
|width=5% align=center|ik
|width=20% align=center|[[ben]]
|width=5% align=center|wij
|width=20% align=center|zijn
|width=5% align=center|ik
|width=20% align=center|[[was]]
|width=5% align=center|wij
|width=20% align=center|[[waren]]
|-
|width=5% align=center|jij
|width=20% align=center|[[bent]]
|width=5% align=center|jullie
|width=20% align=center|zijn
|width=5% align=center|jij
|width=20% align=center|[[was]]
|width=5% align=center|jullie
|width=20% align=center|[[waren]]
|-
|width=5% align=center|hij/zij
|width=20% align=center|[[is]]
|width=5% align=center|zij
|width=20% align=center|zijn
|width=5% align=center|hij/zij
|width=20% align=center|[[was]]
|width=5% align=center|zij
|width=20% align=center|[[waren]]
|-
|colspan=8 height=9px|
|-
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[present participle|Present participle]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''([[auxiliary|Auxiliary]]) [[past participle|Past participle]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[imperative|Imperative]]'''
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|'''[[subjunctive|Subjunctive]]'''
|-
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|[[zijnde]]
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|zijn [[geweest]]
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|[[wees]]
|colspan=2 width=25% align=center|[[zij]]
|-
|}

=====Synonyms=====
* (''archaic'') [[wezen]]
* (''obsolete'') [[bennen]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[voorzijn]]
* [[welzijn]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{proto|Germanic|sīnaz}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|seino-}}, originally a reflexive form. Cognate with German ''[[sein]]'', Swedish ''[[sin]]''.

===Pronoun===
'''zijn''' {{m}} {{n}} {{context|dependent possessive}} (''independent possessive'' '''[[mijne]]''', ''contracted form'' '''[[z'n]]''')

# Third person singular, masculine and neuter possessive pronoun: [[his]], [[its]].
#: '' Een man en zijn hond.'' &mdash; A man and his dog.
#: '' Een man en z'n hoed.'' &mdash; A man and his hat.
#: '' Een boek en zijn kaft.'' &mdash; A book and its cover.

[[Category:Dutch irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Dutch possessive pronouns]]
[[Category:Dutch pronouns]]

[[el:zijn]]
[[fo:zijn]]
[[fr:zijn]]
[[io:zijn]]
[[id:zijn]]
[[it:zijn]]
[[la:zijn]]
[[nl:zijn]]
[[pl:zijn]]
[[vi:zijn]]