{{also|Zilch}}
==English==
{{was wotd|2009|July|31}}

===Etymology===
Uncertain. First attested as {{m|en|Zilch}}, a [[placeholder]] surname (compare {{m|en|John Doe}}) in the American humor magazine ''Ballyhoo'' in 1931. Compare the rare German surname {{m|de|Zilch}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP|GA}} {{enPR|zĭlch}}, {{IPA|/zɪltʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪltʃ|lang=en}}
{{rfap|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~|es}}

# {{lb|en|countable|informal|archaic}} A [[nobody]]: a [[person]] who is [[worthless]] in [[importance]] or [[character]].
#* '''1931''' July, ''[[:w:Ballyhoo (magazine)|Ballyhoo]]'', Vol. I, No. 1, p. 1:
#*: President Henry P. '''Zilch'''. Chairman of the Board Charles D. '''Zilch'''. Treasurer Otto '''Zilch'''.
#* '''1940''', Lester V. Berrey & al., ''The American Thesaurus of Slang'', §184:
#*: Dinglegoofer, Mr. '''Zilch''', indefinite nicknames.
# {{lb|en|uncountable|informal}} [[nothing|Nothing]], [[zero]].
#* '''1991''', Judith Arnold, ''One Good Turn‎'', page 104:
#*: "If the homeless wind up with '''zilch'''," James retorted, veiling his indignation behind a malevolent smile, "it's because they deserve '''zilch'''."

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|nothing}} ''See'' '''[[Thesaurus:nothing]]'''
* {{sense|nobody}} ''See'' '''[[Thesaurus:nonentity]]'''

====Translations====
<!--informal translations, formal ones go at 'nothing'-->
{{trans-top|''(informal)'' nothing}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|nenio}}
* French: {{t+|fr|que dalle}}, {{t+|fr|que pouic}}
* German: {{t+|de|nix}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|何も|tr=nani mo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|canci}}, {{t+|ro|ioc}}, {{t+|ro|boacă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ничего́|tr=ničevó}}, {{qualifier|slang}} {{t|ru|ни черта́}}, {{t+|ru|ни фига́}}, {{t|ru|ни шиша́}}, {{t+|ru|ни хрена́}}, {{qualifier|vulgar}} {{t+|ru|ни хуя́}}, {{t+|ru|ни хера́}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|noll}}, {{t+|sv|nolla|c}}, {{t+|sv|ingenting}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hiç}}, {{t+|tr|değersiz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|informal|mostly|_|US}} [[no|No]], [[zero]], [[non-existent]].
#* '''1966''', University of South Dakota, ''Current Slang'': 
#*: '''Zilch''', adj. Nothing, zero...
#* '''1977''' February 3, ''[[:w:Telegraph (Brisbane)|The Telegraph]]'', p. 14:
#*: ...gorgeous faces but '''zilch''' talent...

===Verb===
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{lb|en|informal|US|_|sports}} To [[cause]] to [[score]] [[nothing]], to [[thoroughly]] [[defeat]].
#* '''1969''', University of South Dakota, ''Current Slang'':
#*: We '''zilched''' them on that rubber.
#* '''1990''' April 2, ''USA Today'', p. 20: 
#*: My favorite film of 1989 got '''zilched'''... That would be ''[[:w:Field of Dreams|Field of Dreams]]''.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|shutout}}

===References===
* {{R:Etymonline}}
* {{R:OED Online|entry=zilch|code=232853|part of speech=n. (and adj.)|date=1986}}
* {{R:OED Online|entry=zilch|code=243643|part of speech=v|date=1993}}