==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
From Old Church Slavonic '''zima''' ("winter") < Proto-Indo-European '''*gheim-''' ("snow", "winter"). Cognate with Sanskrit '''heman''' ("in winter"}, Hittite '''gimmanza''', Greek {{IPAchar|[[χεῖμα]]}}, and Lithuanian [[ziema]] (all meaning "winter"). Possibly related to Persian {{FAchar|[[زمستان|زِمِستان]]}} (zemestān).

===Noun===
'''zima''' {{f}}

# [[winter]]
# [[cold]] [[weather]] (regardless of the season)
# [[cold]]; [[coldness]]

[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From Old Church Slavonic '''zima''' ("winter") < Proto-Indo-European '''*gheim-''' ("snow", "winter"). Cognate with Sanskrit '''heman''' ("in winter"}, Hittite '''gimmanza''', Greek {{IPAchar|[[χεῖμα]]}}, and Lithuanian [[ziema]] (all meaning "winter"). Possibly related to Persian {{FAchar|[[زمستان|زِمِستان]]}} (zemestān).

===Noun===
'''zima'''

# [[winter]]

[[Category:Croatian nouns]]

----

==Czech==

===Etymology===
From Old Church Slavonic '''zima''' ("winter") < Proto-Indo-European '''*gheim-''' ("snow", "winter"). Cognate with Sanskrit '''heman''' ("in winter"}, Hittite '''gimmanza''', Greek {{IPAchar|[[χεῖμα]]}}, and Lithuanian [[ziema]] (all meaning "winter"). Possibly related to Persian {{FAchar|[[زمستان|زِمِستان]]}} (zemestān).

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|Cs-zima.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=f}}

# [[winter]]
# [[cold]]

====Derived terms====
* [[přezimovat]]
* [[zazimovat]]
* [[zimnice]] {{f}}
* [[zimní]]
* [[zimomřivý]] {{m}}

[[Category:cs:Calendar terms]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈʑima]|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|pl-zima.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology===
From Old Church Slavonic '''zima''' ("winter") < Proto-Indo-European '''*gheim-''' ("snow", "winter"). Cognate with Sanskrit '''heman''' ("in winter"}, Hittite '''gimmanza''', Greek {{IPAchar|[[χεῖμα]]}}, and Lithuanian [[ziema]] (all meaning "winter"). Possibly related to Persian {{FAchar|[[زمستان|زِمِستان]]}} (zemestān).

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=f}}

# [[winter]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|zima|zimy
|zimy|zim
|zimie|zimom
|zimę|zimy
|zimą|zimami
|zimie|zimach
|zimo|zimy
}}

===Derived terms===
* [[zimowy]], [[zimowa]], [[zimowe]]

----

==Serbian==

===Etymology===
From Old Church Slavonic '''zima''' ("winter") < Proto-Indo-European '''*gheim-''' ("snow", "winter"). Cognate with Sanskrit '''heman''' ("in winter"}, Hittite '''gimmanza''', Greek {{IPAchar|[[χεῖμα]]}}, and Lithuanian [[ziema]] (all meaning "winter"). Possibly related to Persian {{FAchar|[[زمستان|زِمِستان]]}} (zemestān).

===Noun===
'''zima''' {{f}}

# [[winter]]
# [[cold]] [[weather]] (regardless of the season)
# [[cold]]; [[coldness]]

====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[зима#Serbian|зима]]

[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
:'''zima''' {{f}}, '''zimy''' {{p}}
: '''zim''' ''stem''
: '''zím''' ''gen'' {{p}}
: declension pattern ''[[Appendix:Slovak declension pattern žena|žena]]

# [[winter]]
# [[very cold weather]] (regardless of the season)

===Derived terms===
*[[zimný]]

[[ast:zima]]
[[cs:zima]]
[[de:zima]]
[[el:zima]]
[[fr:zima]]
[[ko:zima]]
[[hr:zima]]
[[io:zima]]
[[it:zima]]
[[ku:zima]]
[[la:zima]]
[[lt:zima]]
[[hu:zima]]
[[nl:zima]]
[[ja:zima]]
[[pl:zima]]
[[pt:zima]]
[[ro:zima]]
[[ru:zima]]
[[sl:zima]]
[[fi:zima]]
[[sv:zima]]
[[tr:zima]]