{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "y"}}
{{also|у|ყ|ⴘ}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
{{infl|mul|symbol}}

# {{metrology}} Symbol for the prefix [[yocto-]].

----

==English==

===Pronunciation===
{{rfap}}
* {{IPA|/'waɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"waI/}}
{{rfv}}
* {{homophones|why|WI|WY|Wye|wye}}

===Letter===
{{infl|en|letter|lowercase||uppercase|Y}}

# Twenty-fifth letter of the [[Appendix:Roman script|English alphabet]], preceded by [[x]] and followed by [[z]].
# Denoting an item that is twenty-fifth in a list.
# {{context|abbreviation}} [[year]]
# {{context|TV}} Abbreviation for [[youth]] content, usually followed by a [[suggested]] [[age]].
#: '''''Y'''7''
# {{context|computers}} Abbreviation for [[yes]].
# {{context|informal|abbreviation}} [[why]] {{italbrac|in text messaging and internet conversations}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|denoting an item that is twenty-fifth in a list}} [[25]], [[XXV]], [[xxv]]

====Derived terms====
* [[Y2K]]

===See also===
* With [[acute]]: [[ý]]
* With [[diaeresis]]: [[ÿ]]
* With [[circumflex]]: [[ŷ]]
* With hook: [[ƴ]]
* With [[macron]]: [[ȳ]]
* With dot above: [[ẏ]]
* With ring above: [[ẙ]]
* With [[grave]]: [[ỳ]]
* With dot below: [[ỵ]]
* With hook above: [[ỷ]]
* With [[tilde]]: [[ỹ]]
* [[U]]
* [[V]]

----

==Asturian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ast}} {{term|et|lang=la}}.

===Conjunction===
{{infl|ast|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{sense|letter name}} {{IPA|/ɛɪ/|lang=nl}}

===Letter===
{{infl|nl|letter|lower case||upper case|Y}}

# The twenty-fifth letter of the [[Dutch alphabet]].

===See also===
* Previous letter: [[x#Dutch|x]]
* Next letter: [[z#Dutch|z]]

----

==French==

===Letter===
{{infl|fr|letter}}

# [[i]]-[[grec]] ({{IPA|/igʀɛk/}})

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|ibi|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/i/|lang=fr}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fr|pronoun|adverbial}}

# (to) [[there]]
#: ''Nous allons à Mexique. Nous '''y''' allons.'' — “We are going to Mexico.  We are going there.”
#: ''Il est dans la maison. Il '''y''' est.'' — “He is in the house.  He is there.”

----

==Guaraní==

===Noun===
'''y'''

# [[water]]

[[Category:Guaraní language]]

----

==Papiamentu==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|pap|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

----

==Spanish==
<!--Removed - this is no different from the English "y"

===Etymology 1===

====Pronunciation====
(This is not IPA. SAMPA, maybe, but not IPA) * {{IPA|lang=es|/iGrjeGa/}}

====Letter====
{{infl|es|letter}}

# i-[[griega]] (literally “[[Greek]] [[i]]”)

===Etymology 2===
Old Spanish {{term|e}}, from {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|et}}
-->

===Etymology 3===
From old Spanish {{term|e}}, from {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|et}}

====Alternative forms====
* [[e#Spanish|e]]

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|lang=es|/i/}}

====Conjunction====
{{infl|es|conjunction}}

# [[and]]
# {{context|in names of number}} [[and]]
#: ''setenta '''y''' seis'' - “seventy-six”
# {{italbrac|in arithmetic}} [[plus]]
#: ''uno '''y''' uno son dos'' - “one plus one is two”
# {{informal}} [[well]]
#: ''¡'''y''' por supuesto!'' - “well, of course!”

====Usage notes====
* Before words that begin with the {{IPAchar|/i/}} sound, the form {{term|e|lang=es}} is used instead.

[[Category:Latin letters|Y]]
[[Category:Symbols]]

----

==Vietnamese==

===Noun===
'''y'''

# [[he]], [[him]]

----

==Welsh==

===Article===
'''y''' (''after vowels'', '''[['r]]'''; ''before vowels'', '''[[yr]]''')

# [[the]].

===Particle===
'''y''' (after vowels, {{l|cy|'r}}; before vowels, {{l|cy|yr}})

# that (''preverbal particle used to mark a [[subordinate clause]])
#: Wyt ti'n meddwl '''y''' gall hi'n dod? - Do you think that she can come?
#: Mae hi'n gwybod y byddet ti'n gwrando arni hi - She knows that you would listen to her
#: Dyn ni moyn y bo'n wŷch - We want that it be splendid
#: Byddai hi fod wedi bod yn wŷch y baen nhw yma - It would have been splendid that they were to be here

====Usage notes====
* ''y'' is sometimes omitted in speech.
* ''y'' is used to mean 'that' (i.e. mark a subordinate clause) when the subordinate clause begins with an affirmative form of ''{{l|cy|bod}}'' not in the present tense, or another affirmative verb in any tense.

====See also====
* {{l|cy|bod}}
* {{l|cy|mai}}
* {{l|cy|i}}

[[Category:Welsh articles]]
[[Category:Welsh particles]]

[[af:y]]
[[an:y]]
[[br:y]]
[[ca:y]]
[[cs:y]]
[[de:y]]
[[et:y]]
[[el:y]]
[[es:y]]
[[fa:y]]
[[fr:y]]
[[ga:y]]
[[gl:y]]
[[ko:y]]
[[io:y]]
[[ia:y]]
[[it:y]]
[[csb:y]]
[[ku:y]]
[[la:y]]
[[lt:y]]
[[hu:y]]
[[ms:y]]
[[nl:y]]
[[ja:y]]
[[no:y]]
[[pl:y]]
[[pt:y]]
[[ru:y]]
[[sq:y]]
[[simple:y]]
[[sk:y]]
[[sl:y]]
[[fi:y]]
[[sv:y]]
[[vi:y]]
[[tr:y]]
[[zh:y]]