==English==

===Contraction===
'''[[ya]][['ll]]'''

# {{eye dialect|[[you'll]]}}
#*'''1857''', Barry Alan Grael based on Dion Boucicault's play, ''The Streets of New York'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=dVr8FZH65foC], page 70:
#*:Don't go in, '''ya'll''' only make thins worse.
#*'''1886''', in ''Good Words for 1886'', Donald MacLeod (ed.),  [http://books.google.com/books?id=d4JMAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA201&dq=ya%27ll page 201]:
#*:Yis, yis; '''ya'll''' be forced, or else '''ya'll''' tak t' luck awaäy wi' ya, an' that wad niver deä.
#*'''1921''', Robert Norwood, ''Bill Boram'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=frIVwVBGcWEC&pg=PA52&dq=ya%27ll page 52]
#*:Bill's spilin' for a fight, / An' one o' these black God-forgotten days / He'll let tha devil tap 'im on tha shoulder, / An' then '''ya'll''' see what happens.
#*{{quote-book|#:*|1985|V.C. Andrews|Heaven|page=243|isbn=0671729446|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=XJVw075VNtwC|
passage='''Ya'll''' like that. '''Ya'll''' come out smellin like a rose, looking like one, too.}}
#*'''2002''', Marina Carr, ''By the Bog of Cats'', page 24:
#*:'''Ya'll''' only ever be Xavier Cassidy's work horse. He won't treat ya right.
#*'''2006''', J. R. Reynolds, ''Sustenance of Courage'', page 281:
#*:But then '''ya'll''' only have two oxen if ya do that, Mrs. Burt.

===Pronoun===
'''ya’ll''' {{p}}

# {{nonstandard}} {{misspelling of|y’all}}
#: {{quotations-top}}
#*'''1985''', Barbara Savage, ''Miles from Nowhere'', page 89:
#*:So '''ya'll''' need a place to camp do ya?
#*'''1987''', Beth Henley, ''The Lucky Spot'', page 20:
#*:'''Ya'll''' all gotta look real beautiful for tonight.
#*'''1999''', Connie Rose Porter, ''Imani All Mine'', page 207:
#*:'''Ya'll''' folk forget about the street number.
#*'''2000''', Frankie Avalon Wolfe, ''The Complete Idiot’s Guide to Being Vegetarian'', page 308:
#*:Hinduism — '''Ya’ll''' Come Back Now
#*'''2004''', James E. Pittman, ''The Way We See It: Expressed through poetry and rhyme from friends and family'', page 35:
#*:'''Ya’ll''' don’t know bout the Souf, fah real // Let me tell '''ya’ll''' how it be.
#*'''2004''', Ronald Everett Capps, ''Off Magazine Street'', page 291:
#*:Then, when '''ya'll''' were young, '''ya'll''' probably learned a lot about manners and how to act, didn't '''ya'll'''?
#*'''2005''', Jimmie, ''Life, Death And Sex In Prison'', page 21:
#*:“I’m Lieutenant Bunger. '''Ya’ll''' do exactly as I or any other uniformed officer here tells you to do, whenever he wants '''ya’ll''' to do it. Ifen '''ya’ll''' don’t do it quickly enough and the way we tell '''ya’ll''' to do it, we’ll march '''ya’ll''' right to the fuckin’ ‘hole’. For you new inmates… I mean solitary confinement. We don’t fuck aroun’ with '''ya’ll''' here. Ifen '''ya’ll''' don’t listen to what we tells yoh, '''ya’ll''' be in the ‘hole’ until '''ya’ll''' get as blind as a bat from the dark. Right now '''ya’ll''' are goin’ to ‘B’ house where '''ya’ll''' have a place to sleep this night”.

====Usage notes====
"Ya'll" is the prevalent variant of the word "y'all" in Texas and the rural South, where the term originated. In that region, "ya'll" is widely regarded as the proper spelling of the word. Traditional southerners protest the conversion of the spelling to "y'all" by dictionary editors from the northeast who maintain that the logical contraction of "you" and "all" should be "y'all." The mistake, southerners contend, is to assume that the contraction combines "you" and "all" to begin with. Instead, the term "ya'll" evolved by combining the word "ya" (the phonetic spelling of "you" as historically pronounced in the South) and "all"--hence "ya'll."

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[ally#English|ally]]}} , [[Ally#English|Ally]]

[[Category:English terms spelled with ']]