{{also|Yacht}}
==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
ca. 1557; variant of {{term|yaught|lang=en}}, earlier {{term|yeaghe|lang=en}} ‘light, fast-sailing ship’, from obsolete Dutch {{term|jaghte|jaght(e)|lang=nl}} 'hunt' (modern {{term|jacht|lang=nl}}), short for {{term|jaghtschip|lang=nl}}, {{term|jageschip|lang=nl}} ‘light sailing vessel, fast pirate ship’, literally, ‘pursuit ship’, compound of {{term|jagen|lang=nl}} ‘to hunt, chase’ and {{term|schip|lang=nl}} ‘ship’ (see [[ship]]), from {{proto|Germanic|jagōnan}} (cf. West Frisian {{term|jeie|lang=fry}}, German {{term|jagen|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|jaga|lang=sv}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|i̯egho-}} (compare Irish {{term|éad|lang=ga}} ‘jealousy’, Russian {{term||yaryĭ}} ‘furious’, Albanian {{term|gjah|lang=sq}} ‘hunt’, Ancient Greek {{term||zēteîn}} ‘to search, seek’, Sanskrit {{term||yāvan}} ‘aggressor’, {{term||yātna}} ‘zeal’). 
<br>In the 16th century the Dutch built light, fast ships to chase the ships of pirates and smugglers from the coast. The ship was introduced to England in 1660 when the Dutch East India Company presented one to King Charles II, who used it as a pleasure boat, after which it was copied by British shipbuilders as a pleasure craft for wealthy gentlemen.</br>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/jɒt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-yacht.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɒt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A slick and light [[ship]] for making pleasure trips or racing on water, having sails but often motor-powered. At times used as a residence offshore on a dock.
#: '' "Would you like to go sailing on my uncle’s '''yacht'''?" ''
#: '' "You are a true yachtsman! Are you a member of the local '''yacht''' club?" ''
# Any vessel used for private, noncommercial purposes.

====Derived terms====
* [[ice yacht]]
* [[land yacht]]
* [[motor yacht]], [[motoryacht]], [[MY]]
* [[sailing yacht]], [[steam yacht]], [[SY]]
* [[yacht club]]
* [[yachter]]
* [[yachting]]
* [[yachtless]]
* [[yachtsman]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|slick and light ship}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يخت|m|tr=yakht}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|jahta|f}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|iot}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|游艇|tr=yóutǐng|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|jahta|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|jachta|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|jacht|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|jaĥto|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: [[jaht]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jahti}}, {{t-|fi|huvipursi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|yacht|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Yacht|f}}, {{t+|de|Jacht|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γιοτ|n|tr=yiot}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|याख़्ट|tr=yāḵẖṭ|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|jacht}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|panfilo|m}}, {{t+|it|yacht|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ヨット|tr=yotto}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|요트|tr=yoteu|sc=Hang}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|јахта|f|tr=jáhta}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|яхта|f|tr=jáxta}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gheat|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t|gd|sgoth-long|f}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|jahta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|yate|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yat}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|du thuyền|xs=Vietnamese}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|yakt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|any private noncommercial vessel}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huvialus}}
* German: {{t+|de|Yacht|f}}, {{t+|de|Jacht|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θαλαμηγός|f|tr=thalamigós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|jacht}}
* Japanese: [[船]] (fune), [[ボート]] (bōto)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gheat|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t|gd|sgoth-long|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{Arab|[[يخت]]}} (yakht)
* {{ttbc|bg}}: [[яхта]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|ca}}: {{t|ca|iot|m}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[jacht]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: yacht {{m}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[יאכטה]] (yakhta) {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[요트]] (yoteu)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[iate]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[јахта]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[jahta]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[yat]] [-tı]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[sail]], [[voyage]], or [[race]] in a [[yacht]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to voyage in a yacht}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|ir en yate}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|achty}}
* [[Cathy#English|Cathy]]

[[Category:Watercraft]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} {{term|yacht|lang=en}} < {{etyl|nl|fr}}.

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[#English|Yacht]].

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''yacht''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|yacht]]
# The letter [[Y]] in the [[Appendix:Italian phonetic alphabet|Italian phonetic alphabet]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[et:yacht]]
[[el:yacht]]
[[es:yacht]]
[[fr:yacht]]
[[gl:yacht]]
[[hy:yacht]]
[[io:yacht]]
[[it:yacht]]
[[hu:yacht]]
[[ml:yacht]]
[[my:yacht]]
[[pl:yacht]]
[[ru:yacht]]
[[fi:yacht]]
[[ta:yacht]]
[[te:yacht]]
[[tr:yacht]]
[[vi:yacht]]
[[zh:yacht]]