{{wikipedia|dab=ye}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "ye"}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|ge|ġē|lang=ang}}, the nominative case of the second-person plural personal pronoun. See also {{term|you}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} & {{a|US}} {{IPA|/jiː/}}, {{SAMPA|/ji:/}}
* {{audio|en-us-ye.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|iː}}

====Pronoun====
{{en-pron|desc=personal pronoun}}

# {{dialectal|Northern England|Cornwall|Irish|or|archaic}} [[you]] (the people being addressed).

=====Usage notes=====
{{term|ye|Ye}} was originally used only for the nominative case (as the subject), and only for the second-person plural. Later, {{term|ye}} was used as a subject or an object, either singular or plural, which is the way that {{term|you}} is used today.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[d'ye]]
* [[hear ye]]
* [[ye gods]]

=====References=====
* {{R:Dobson & Irwin Newcastle 1970}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|þe|lang=enm}}. The letter {{term|y}} is a variant of {{term|þ||thorn}}, a letter which corresponds to modern {{term||th}}. Etymological ''y'' was for a time distinguished by a dot, {{term|ẏ}}, but the letters conflated when that was dropped. Despite the occasional modern use of {{term|y}} in the word, it is still read as {{term|the}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|stressed}}
* {{enPR|''th''ē}}, {{IPA|/ðiː/}}, {{SAMPA|/Di:/}}
* {{audio|en-us-the-stressed.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{a|unstressed}}
* {{enPR|''th''ə}}, {{IPA|/ðə/}}, {{SAMPA|/D@/}} <!-- (''but see notes below'') -><!- what notes? -->
* {{audio|en-ca-the.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
* {{audio|en-us-the-unstressed.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Article====
{{infl|en|article}}

# {{archaic|definite}} [[the]]
#: '''''Ye''' Olde Medicine Shoppe''.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[ye olde]]

====Statistics====
* {{rank|sort|town|dark|437|ye|common|subject|can't}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ey#English|ey]]

[[Category:English personal pronouns]]
[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Catawba==

===Noun===
{{infl|chc|noun}}

# [[Man]] {{qualifier|adult male human}}, [[person]].
# [[Native American]] [[Indian]].

====Usage notes====
The vowel sounds may permutate, and transcription methods differ, such that the word can be represented in any of the following ways: {{term|ye`}}, {{term|ye'}}, {{term|ye´}} {{qualifier|reflecting differing transcriptions}}; {{term|yé}}, {{term|yí}}, or {{term|yę}} {{qualifier|reflecting vowel permutation}}; {{term|yä´n}}, {{term|inyen|i<sup>n</sup>ye<sup>n</sup>}}, or {{term|įyę}} {{qualifier|reflecting vowel permutation and differing transcription}}.

====References====
* 1858: Oscar M. Lieber, ''Vocabulary of the Catawba Language''.
* 1900: Albert S. Gatschet, ''Grammatic Sketch of the Catawba Language'' (published in the ''American Anthropologist'').
* 1942: Frank G. Speck and C. E. Shaeffer, ''Catawba Kinship and Social Organization''.
* 1945: Frank T. Siebert, Jr., ''Linguistic Classification of Catawba'' (published in the ''International Journal of American Linguistics'').

----

==Haitian Creole==
<!-- This section was created using Template:new ht entry. -->

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=ht}}

===Verb===
{{infl|ht|verb}}

# {{n-g|Form of {{term|se|lang=ht}} used at the end of a phrase, after the [[predicate]] and the [[subject]], in that order}}; to [[be]].
#: ''Kimoun ou ye?'' (''Who are you?''; literally, ''Who you are?'')

----

==Ido==

===Preposition===
{{infl|io|preposition}}

# [[at]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Adverb===
{{cmn-adv|p|pin=yě|pint=ye3|tas=也}}

# [[also]]
#: [[shijieshang]] [[meiyou]] [[yongyuan]] [[de]] [[pengyou]] [[ye]] [[meiyou]] [[yongyuan]] [[de]] [[diren]].
#:: there is no constant friend and '''also''' no constant enemy in the world.

====Derived terms====
* [[yeshi]]
* [[yehao]]

===Noun===
{{infl|cmn|noun|Pinyin|yè|traditional and simplified|夜}}

# {{defn|lang=cmn}} Leaf of a plant
# [[night]]

====Derived terms====
* [[yeshenghuo]]

===Pinyin syllable===
'''ye'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[yē]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[yé]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[yě]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[yè]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Middle English==

===Noun===
{{infl|enm|noun|plural}}

# [[eyes]]
:: ''And smale foweles maken melodye,<br>That slepen al the nyght with open '''ye''''' - General Prologue, Canterbury Tales, ll. 9-10

----

==Scots==

===Pronoun===
{{sco-pron}}

# [[you]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-f|p=ye}}

# Name of the letter {{term|y}}.

====Synonyms====
* [[i griega]] ''(deprecated)''

[[Category:es:Latin letter names]]

----

==Volapük==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|vo|conjunction}}

# [[however]]

[[de:ye]]
[[et:ye]]
[[es:ye]]
[[fr:ye]]
[[ko:ye]]
[[io:ye]]
[[it:ye]]
[[ku:ye]]
[[la:ye]]
[[lt:ye]]
[[hu:ye]]
[[ja:ye]]
[[pl:ye]]
[[pt:ye]]
[[simple:ye]]
[[fi:ye]]
[[sv:ye]]
[[te:ye]]
[[tr:ye]]
[[vo:ye]]
[[zh:ye]]