==English==

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{informal}}<!--slang?--> [[yes|Yes]].

====Antonyms====
* [[nopers]]

Historical Annotation:
Although the origins of this word have been widely debated amongst grammarians and liguistic scholars alike, its original use can be traced back to Brian S. of San Diego, California. Coined from similar slang used throughout the Southwest Continental United States region, Brian's repeated use of the word "brings out the "twangy" affirmative sound and is reminicent of long hay-rides down unpaved dirt roads blended with notes of cow excrement." (B.S. Feb. 3, 2002 - SDRegion... e.t. 760)

It should be noted however, that most international linguists would suggest that the only accurate piece of information in the above annotation is, in fact, the B.S. and cow excrement. Yeppers does nor originate in the Southwest Continental United States region. It's roots can be traced to Hamburg, Germany. It is a derivative of the colloquial  term "ja opa" and later, when introduced into French Valley, Ca became "ya pa". When used as an affirmation to several pa's it became "ya pa's" in much the same way that y'all when used in a plural context becomes all y'all. By May of 1975, common usage had become "yeppers". First citied in a second grade book report written by, and read aloud by, Kathleen W. Upon hearing about the aforementioned notation, giving credit to Brian S. of San Diego, Kathleen's only comment was "if little Brian S. Wants to take credit for 'yeppers' I say let him have it. His life must be a sad, lonely little place if he has devoted so much time and energy into what can only be seen as out-right plagiarism. But I've heard he is quite cute, so I quess I can find it in my heart to love him anyway"