{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} & US:'' {{IPA|/jɛt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-yet.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛt}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[ġīet]]''

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# Thus far; up to the present; up to some specified time.
#: ''He has never '''yet''' been late for an appointment. ''
#: ''I’m not '''yet''' wise enough to answer that. ''
#: ''When she started school, the child was not '''yet''' able to tie her shoe laces.
# Continuously up to this or that time; still.
#: ''The workers went to the factory early and are striking '''yet'''. ''
# At some future time; eventually.
#: ''The riddle will be solved '''yet'''. ''
# In addition.
#: ''There are two hours '''yet''' to go until our destination. ''

====Derived terms====
* [[not yet]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|yet}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[encara]]
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|meye kala}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ještě}}
* Danish: [[endnu]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|nog}}
* French: {{t+|fr|encore}}
* German: {{t+|de|noch}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ακόμη||tr=akómi|sc=Grek}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[ancora]]
* Irish: {{t-|ga|fós|xs=Irish}} (1)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ancora}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|これまでで|tr=kore made de|sc=Jpan}},  {{t|ja|まだ|tr=mada|sc=Jpan}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[هێشتا]]}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[oc]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jeszcze}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ainda}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|încă}}
* Russian: [[ещё]]; [[всё ещё]] (still); [[вскоре]] (some time in future)
* Spanish: {{t-|es|aún}}, {{t+|es|todavía}}
* Swedish: [[ännu]] (1,2), [[fortfarande]] (3), [[ytterligare]] (5)
* Vietnamese: ... [[đã]] ... [[chưa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-conj}}

# [[nevertheless|Nevertheless]]; [[however]]; [[but]]; [[despite that]].
#: ''I thought I knew you, '''yet''' how wrong I was.''

====Derived terms====
* [[as yet]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|yet}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[tanmateix]], [[no obstant això]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|maar toch}}
* French: [[pourtant]]; [[mais]]
* German: {{t+|de|doch}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|עוד|od}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[non obstante]], [[malgrado]]
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|сепак|tr=sépak|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Polish: jak, jakże, jakżem
* Russian: [[и]] [[вот]]; [[но]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|sin embargo}}, {{t-|es|no obstante}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]

[[et:yet]]
[[el:yet]]
[[es:yet]]
[[fr:yet]]
[[fy:yet]]
[[ko:yet]]
[[hy:yet]]
[[io:yet]]
[[it:yet]]
[[ku:yet]]
[[hu:yet]]
[[nl:yet]]
[[ja:yet]]
[[pl:yet]]
[[simple:yet]]
[[fi:yet]]
[[ta:yet]]
[[te:yet]]
[[th:yet]]
[[tr:yet]]
[[vi:yet]]
[[zh:yet]]