==English==

===Proper noun===
'''Yoshi'''

# An established Japanese male name.
# {{informal}} A fictional long-tongued agile dinosaur character from some Nintendo games, often a dragon companion to Mario. Created by [[w:Shigefumi Hino|Shigefumi Hino]] and introduced in ''[[w:Super Mario World|Super Mario World]]''.
#*'''1997''' January 30, Brian Detty, “Re: Meanest thing done to your opponent”, <tt>rec.games.video.arcade</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: I have to say that the most humilating move that has ever been put into a fighting game would be Kappah's from behind the throw.''...'' Killing somebody with a '''Yoshi''' suicide is a close runner up.
#*'''1997''' April 24, Albert Lee, “Re: [TK3] Using Lei's stances?”, <tt>rec.games.video.arcade</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: Thanks to your comments, I was able to thoroughly rape a King user today, and fared nicely against a '''Yoshi''' player.  That b+1+2 headbutt is sooo useful against '''Yoshi'''<nowiki>'</nowiki>s kicks...muh ha ha!
#*'''1998''' July 30, “Nintendo Gives Consumers 1,000 More Reasons to Shop at Tommy Hilfiger; Back to School Promotion Brings Nintendo 64 to the Apparel Retail World”, ''Business Wire''
#*: Nintendo has sold more than one billion video games worldwide, and has created industry icons such as Mario, '''Yoshi''', Zelda, and Donkey Kong.
#*'''2002''' February 11, “Find Your Escape in Nintendo's Super Mario World; Luigi Joins Mario and '''Yoshi''' On a Trip To Star Road via Game Boy Advance”, ''Business Wire''
#*: <!--...-->1991's Super Mario World offered everything a video game player could want from an action adventure game with 96 levels to explore across nine vast worlds. Mario befriends a new pal, '''Yoshi''', who helps the grateful plumber navigate through each of the stages.
#*'''2002''' September 28, ''Business Wire''
#*: Hundreds of local residents of Lizard Lick vied for victory in the world's first "Clash of the Tongues" competition.
#*: The competition was lead by '''Yoshi'''(R)<!--sic-->, the video game industry's most famous long-tongued dinosaur. '''Yoshi''' realized his life-long wish to join his distant Lizard Lick cousins and their talented tongues
#*'''2003''' November 11, “FEATURE/Mario Announces Bid For U.S. Presidency; The Mario Party 5 Platform: All Fun, No Politics”, ''Business Wire''
#*: The rest of Mario's top advisers embody diversity itself with the inclusion of Toad (a 29-inch diplomat from the Mushroom Kingdom), '''Yoshi'''(TM) (a long-tongued dinosaur) and Donkey Kong(R) (a stubborn ape).
# {{context|countable|informal}} One of a number of similar characters.
#*'''1998''' March 30, “Relm”, “Re: AGFF Spell Sayings.......”, <tt>alt.games.final-fantasy</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: He found those annoying virtual '''Yoshi''' pets at Nintendo's site just a couple days ago. He named a '''Yoshi''' after me (....) and took care of it for a day or two, but got bored of having to care for it so often.  Any other person would of just left it, but noooooo....being the silly programmer that he is, he has to go and create a virtual '''Yoshi'''-sitter for his virtual '''Yoshi'''!!
# {{rfv-sense}} {{slang}} A [[Super Nintendo]] or [[Super Famicom]].

===Translations===
{{rfc-level|Translations at L3+ (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Translations)}}
'''fictional dinosaur character'''
*Japanese: [[ヨッシー]]

===See also===

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoshi Wikipedia article on 'Yoshi' (2)]

[[sr:Yoshi]]