{{also|you's}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|pronoun}} [[youse]], [[youze]]

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|you|s|pos2=plural suffix}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/juːz/|/jəz/}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-yous.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
* {{rhymes|en|uːz|s=1}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pronoun}} {{lb|en|dialectal}}

# [[you|You]] (plural). {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
# [[you|You]] (singular).
#* '''1909''', {{w|PG Wodehouse}}, ''The Gem Collector'':
#*: ‘Dere ain't no use for me dis side, Mr. Chames,’ he said. ‘New York's de spot. '''Youse''' don't want none of me, now you're married.’
#* '''1938''', {{w|Patrick Kavanagh}}, ''The Green Fool'':
#*: ‘'''Yous''' will meet us here outside this pub,’ Harry Curniskey said.
#* '''1988''', {{w|Kathy Lette}}, ''Girls' Night Out'':
#*: ‘But what I also seen is that '''youse''' have never had a real man before, datin' all them boys. '''Youse''' have never had anyone who'd stand up to '''youse'''.’
#* '''1992''', {{w|Edward Bond}}, ''In the Company of Men'':
#*: You think '''yous''' can live wi'oot money! Few months doon this hell, you'll murder for money!
#* {{quote-book|1=en|year=2010|author=Peter Corris|authorlink=Peter Corris|title=Torn Apart|publisher=Allen and Unwin|page=81|text=He tossed off half of the drink and I gave him a refill. "What can I do for '''youse'''?" "First off, information."}}

====Usage notes====
*{{s|plural}} {{lb|en|chiefly|AU|NZ|South Africa|New York City|New Jersey|Philadelphia| Delaware|Boston|New England|Northeastern United States|Chicago|Cincinnati|Liverpool|Cape Breton|Ireland|Scotland|Michigan|Teesside}}
* ''Yous(e)'' as a plural is found mainly in (Northern) [[England]], [[Scotland]], [[Ireland]], [[Australia]], [[New Zealand]], [[South Africa]], northern Nova Scotia, parts of [[Ontario]] in Canada and parts of the northeastern [[United States]] (especially areas like Boston where there was historically Irish immigration) and in Mexican-American communities in the southwest. It also occurs in Scouse.
** Both ''yourselves'' and, rarely, ''[[yousselves]]'' (or ''[[youseselves]]'', coordinate with the spelling ''[[youse]]'') are found as reflexive forms.
* ''Yous(e)'' as a singular is found in [[Philadelphia]], [[New York]], [[Boston]], [[Cincinnati]], and scattered throughout working class [[Italian-American]] communities in the [[Rust Belt]]. It is found in Australian English, though is uncommon there.<ref>James Lambert ''The Macquarie Australian Slang Dictionary'' (Sydney: Macquarie Library) 2004, page 222.</ref>
** Both ''yourself'' and, rarely, ''[[yousself]]'' (or ''[[youseself]]'', coordinate with the spelling ''[[youse]]'') are found as reflexive forms.

====Synonyms====
* ''See the list of other second-person pronouns at '''{{m|en|you}}'''''

===Determiner===
{{en-det}}

# {{lb|en|dialect}} The [[group]] spoken or written to.
#: ''What are '''yous''' kids doing?''

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun form}}

# {{plural of|en|you#Noun}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1992|author=Robert Dubin|title=Central Life Interests: Creative Individualism in a Complex World|page=10|passage=Most of your life after babyhood has been played out by the several '''yous'''.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2010|author=Patrick M Morley|title=The Man in the Mirror: Solving the 24 Problems Men Face|page=36|passage=There are two '''yous''' — the visible you and the real you. The visible you is the you that is known by others.}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|en|you#Verb||Third-person singular simple present indicative form}}.

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English second person pronouns]]