{{also|lăm|l-am}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/læm/}}
* {{rhymes|æm}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Used in the expression ''[[on the lam]]''  to mean that a person is fleeing law enforcement, possibly in hiding.
# The twenty-third letter of the [[Arabic]] alphabet, {{Arab|[[ﻝ]]}}. It is preceded by {{Arab|[[ك]]}} and followed by {{Arab|[[م]]}}.

===Verb===
'''to lam''' (''third-person singular simple present -, present participle lamming, simple past and past participle lammed'')

(used with object)
#1. To beat; thrash.
(used without object)
#1. To beat; strike; thrash (usually fol. by out or into).
#2. To run away quickly; escape; flee.

----

==Danish==

===Etymology 1===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|lami|lang=non}}.

====Adjective====
{{infl|da|adjective|neuter|lamt|definite and plural|lamme}}

# [[lame]]

===Etymology 2===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|lamb|lang=non}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|stem=lamm|et}}

# [[lamb]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|stem=lamm|et}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-lam.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=n|plural|[[lammeren]]|diminutive|[[lammetje]]|plural diminutive|[[lammetjes]]}}

# [[lamb]], the [[young]] of a [[sheep]]
# {{figurative}} gentle person, especially an innocent child

====Derived terms====
* [[lammeren]] (verb) 

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|}} 

# [[unable]] to [[move]], [[paralyzed]]
# {{informal|lang=nl}} very [[drunk]]

====Derived terms====
* [[lamme]] {{m}}
* [[verlammen]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
West {{etyl|gem|ang}} *''laima''

===Noun===
{{infl|ang|noun|head=lām|g=m}}

# [[loam]]

----

==Old High German==

===Etymology===
Common {{proto|Germanic|lamaz|lang=goh}}, whence also Old English {{term|lama|lang=ang}}, Old Norse {{term|lami|lang=non}}

===Adjective===
{{infl|goh|adjective}}

# [[lame]]

----

==Swedish==

===Adjective===
{{sv-adj-reg}}
'''lam'''

# A person who is, by medical reasons, unable to move any limbs; [[lame]]
# Inefficient, imperfect, almost ridiculously so.
#: '''Example:'''
#:* Det var ett lamt försök. Gör ditt bästa istället!<=> That was a lame attempt. Do your best instead!

====See also====
* [[förlamad]]
* [[lamslagen]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==

{{vo-noun|lam}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|de|vo}} {{term|Arm|lang=de}} and {{etyl|en|vo}} {{term|arm|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{infl|vo|noun}}

# [[arm]]
# blade
# sharp blade

[[et:lam]]
[[el:lam]]
[[es:lam]]
[[fa:lam]]
[[fr:lam]]
[[io:lam]]
[[ku:lam]]
[[lt:lam]]
[[li:lam]]
[[hu:lam]]
[[nl:lam]]
[[pl:lam]]
[[ru:lam]]
[[fi:lam]]
[[vi:lam]]
[[tr:lam]]
[[vo:lam]]
[[zh:lam]]