{{wikipedia|dab=lash}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/læʃ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/l{S/}}
* {{audio|en-us-lash.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
#: ''I observed that your whip wanted a lash to it.'' &mdash; [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]].
# {{obsolete}} A leash in which an animal is caught or held; hence, a snare.
# A stroke with a whip, or anything pliant and tough.
#: ''The culprit received thirty-nine lashes.''
# A stroke of satire or sarcasm; an expression or retort that cuts or gives pain; a cut.
#: ''The moral is a lash at the vanity of arrogating that to ourselves which succeeds well.'' &mdash; [[w:Roger L'Estrange|Roger L'Estrange]]
# A hair growing from the edge of the eyelid; an eyelash.
# In carpet weaving, a group of strings for lifting simultaneously certain yarns, to form the figure.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|thong of a whip}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|piskesnert|c}}
* Finnish: [[ruoskan]] [[siima]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lanière|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: a snare}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stroke with a whip}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|piskeslag|n}}
* Finnish: [[piiskan]] [[isku]], [[ruoskanisku]], [[sivallus]]
* French: {{t+|fr|coup de fouet|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[удар хлыстом]] {{m}}, [[удар бичом]] {{m}}, [[удар плетью]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|látigo|m}}, {{t-|es|zurriagazo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stroke of satire or sarcasm}}
* Finnish: [[sivallus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: резкий [[упрек]] {{m}}, [[критика]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|eyelash; hair growing from the eyelid|eyelash}}

{{trans-top|group of strings for lifting certain yarns}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lash|es}}

# {{transitive}} To strike with a lash; to whip or scourge with a lash, or with something like one.
#: ''We lash the pupil, and defraud the ward.'' &mdash; [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
# {{transitive}} To strike forcibly and quickly, as with a lash; to beat, or beat upon, with a motion like that of a lash.
#: ''the whale lashes the sea with its tail.''
#: ''And big waves lash the frighted shores.'' &mdash; [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
#* {{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 29
|author=Chris Whyatt  
|title=Chelsea 1 - 0 Bolton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9309542.stm
|page=
|passage=Carlo Ancelotti's out-of-sorts team struggled to hit the target in the first half as Bolton threatened with Matthew Taylor '''lashing''' just wide.}}
# {{transitive}} To throw out with a jerk or quickly.
#: ''He falls, and lashing up his heels, his rider throws.'' &mdash; [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
# {{transitive}} To scold; to berate; to satirize; to censure with severity.
#: ''to lash vice''
# {{transitive}} To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten.
#: ''to lash something to a spar''
#: ''lash a pack on a horse's back''
# {{intransitive}} To ply the whip; to strike.
# {{intransitive}} To utter censure or sarcastic language.
#: ''To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice.'' &mdash; [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
# {{intransitive|of rain}} To fall heavily, especially in the phrase ''[[lash down]]''
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=October 1
|author=Tom Fordyce
|title=Rugby World Cup 2011: England 16-12 Scotland
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/rugby_union/15124512.stm
|page=
|passage=With rain '''lashing''' across the ground at kick-off and every man in Auckland seemingly either English-born or supporting Scotland, Eden Park was transformed into Murrayfield in March.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|strike with a lash}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|vipi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ruoskia}}, {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fouetter}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|strike forcibly, beat as if with a lash}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|throw out with a jerk}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|scold}}
* Finnish: [[suomia]], [[moittia]] [[ankarasti]]
* French: {{t+|fr|gronder}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|rimproverare}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bind with a rope}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sitoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ply the whip}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|utter censure}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[lash out]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fro}} ''[[lasche]]'' (French ''[[lâche]]'').

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{obsolete}} [[remiss|Remiss]], [[lax]].
# {{obsolete}} [[relaxed|Relaxed]].
# [[soft|Soft]], [[watery]], [[wet]].
#* '''1658''': Fruits being unwholesome and '''lash''' before the fourth or fifth Yeare. — Sir Thomas Browne, ''The Garden of Cyrus'' (Folio Society 2007, p. 211)
# {{context|Mid-Ulster|Northern Ireland}} [[excellent]], [[wonderful]]
#: ''We’re off school tomorrow, it’s gonna be '''lash'''!
#: ''That chinese (food) was '''lash'''!''
# Drunk.

[[bg:lash]]
[[de:lash]]
[[et:lash]]
[[el:lash]]
[[es:lash]]
[[fa:lash]]
[[fr:lash]]
[[ko:lash]]
[[io:lash]]
[[it:lash]]
[[kn:lash]]
[[hu:lash]]
[[ml:lash]]
[[my:lash]]
[[pl:lash]]
[[simple:lash]]
[[sh:lash]]
[[fi:lash]]
[[sv:lash]]
[[tl:lash]]
[[ta:lash]]
[[te:lash]]
[[vi:lash]]
[[zh:lash]]