{{wikipedia|Last (disambiguation)}}
{{also|Last|läst}}
==English==

{{rank|under|same|take|136|last|here|thought|found}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|läst}}, {{IPA|/lɑːst/}}, {{SAMPA|/lA:st/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|lăst}}, {{IPA|/læst/}}, {{SAMPA|/l{st/}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːst}}
* {{audio|en-us-last.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[latost]]''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[final|Final]], [[ultimate]], coming after all others of its kind.
# Most [[recent]], [[latest]], last so far.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|final}} [[at the end]], [[caboose]], [[final]], [[tail end]], [[terminal]]
* {{sense|most recent}} [[latest]], [[most]] [[recent]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Final}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[آخر]]}} (’āxar)
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|վերջին|tr=verǰin|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|poslední}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|laatste}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|lasta|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viimeinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dernier|m}}
* German: {{t-|de|letzter}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|אחרון|tr='aḥarón|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|utolsó}}
* [[Ido]]: [[lasta]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|ultimo}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|最後|tr=saigo|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|最終的な|tr=saisyūtekina|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|終わり|tr=owari|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: [[ultimus]]
* Maltese: [[l-aħħar]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sist}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آخر|alt=آخَر|tr=āxær|sc=fa-Arab|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ostatni}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|último}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|последний|tr=poslédnij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: [[posledný]]
* Slovene: [[poslednji]], [[zadnji]], [[končni]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|último}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sista}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|చివరి|sc=Telu}} (chivari), {{t|te|ఆఖరి|sc=Telu}} (aakhari)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Most recent}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|վերջին|tr=verǰin|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|laatste}}, {{t+|nl|afgelopen}}, {{t-|nl|vorig}}, {{t-|nl|vorige}}
* German: {{t-|de|letzter}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|שעבר|tr=she`avár|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|novissimus}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sist}}, {{t-|no|nyest}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|последний|tr=posljédny|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|senaste}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|పోయిన|sc=Telu}} (pOyina), {{t|te|కిందటి|sc=Telu}} (kindaTi)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adverb====
'''last'''

# after everything else
# finally
#: ''[[last but not least]]''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[finally]]
* [[lastly]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|after everything else}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|آخر|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|վերջում|tr=verǰum|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Croatian: [[posljednji]], [[zadnji]], [[konačni]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nakonec}}
* French: [[en dernier]], [[finalement]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|zuletzt}}
* Japanese: [[最後に]] (saigoni), [[最終的に]] (saishūtekini), [[終わりに]] (owarini)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sist}}
* Slovak: [[naposledy]]
* Slovene: [[poslednji]] {{m}}, [[zadnji]] {{m}}, [[končni]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sist}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|finally}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nakonec}}
* German: {{t|de|zuletzt}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|napokon}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[slutligen]], (''Last but not least'' - ''sist men inte minst'')
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[læstan|lǣstan]]'', from Germanic ''*laisti-''.  Cognate with German ''[[leisten]]'' ‘yield’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|obsolete|transitive}} To [[perform]], [[carry out]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[endure]], [[continue]] over time.
#: ''Summer seems to '''last''' longer each year.''
# {{intransitive}} To hold out, continue undefeated or entire.
#: ''I don't know how much longer we can '''last''' without reinforcements.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[continue]]
* [[endure]]
* [[survive]]

=====Antonyms=====
* [[disintegrate]]
* [[dissipate]]
* [[fall apart]]
* [[wear out]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|endure, continue over time}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|տևել|tr=tevel|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|trvat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kestää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|durer}}
* German: {{t|de|aushalten}}
* [[Ido]]: [[durar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[続く]] (tsuzuku)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[درێژ کێشان]]}}
* Slovak: [[trvať]]
* Slovene: [[trajati]], [[obstati]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|durar}}
* Swedish: [[vara]], [[fortfara]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hold out}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|դիմանալ|tr=dimanal|sc=Armn|xs=Armenian}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vydržet}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|volhouden}}
* German: {{t|de|andauern}},  {{t|de|anhalten}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: {{t+|he|לשרוד|sc=Hebr}} [lisrod]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|læste}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# a tool for shaping or preserving the shape of shoes
#* '''2006,''' Newman, Cathy, ''Every Shoe Tells a Story'', National Geographic (September, 2006), 83,
#*: How is an in-your-face black leather thigh-high lace-up boot with a four-inch spike heel like a man's black calf lace-up oxford?  They are both made on a '''last''', the wood or plastic foot-shaped form that leather is stretched over and shaped to make a shoe.

===Etymology 4===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|hlæst}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} An old English measure of weight, usually of wool, containing 12 sacks or 2184 pounds.
#* '''1866''', James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 1, page 169,
#*: The '''last''' of wool is twelve sacks.
# {{obsolete}} An old English (and Dutch) measure of the carrying capacity of a ship, equal to two tons.
#* '''1942 (1601)''', T D Mutch, [http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks06/0600631h.html ''The First Discovery of Australia''], page 14,
#*: The tonnage of the [[w:Duyfken|Duyfken]] of Harmensz's fleet is given as 25 and 30 '''lasten'''.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|An old English measure of weight}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An old English and Dutch measure of the carrying capacity of a ship}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[last]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[everlasting]]
* [[lasting]]

===Anagrams===
* [[slat]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{infl|da|noun|g=c}}

# [[load]], [[burden]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''last''' {{f}}

# [[load]], [[burden]]

====Derived terms====
* [[belasten]]
* [[belasting]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Descended from Germanic, along with the feminine variant [[læst|lǣst]]. Cognate with Middle Dutch [[leest]] (Dutch [[leest]]), Old High German [[leist]] (German [[Leiste]]), Old Norse ''leist-r'' ‘foot, sock’ (Swedish, Danish [[läst]]).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/la:st/|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
'''lāst''' {{m}} ({{p}}: '''lāstas''')

# [[footstep]], [[track]]

====Related terms====
* [[læstan|lǣstan]]

[[Category:Old English nouns]]

----

==Slovene==

===Etymology===
Common Slavic ''volst''

===Noun===
'''last''' {{f}}

# [[property]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-last.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''last'''
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}

# [[cargo]]
# [[load]]
# [[habit]] which is difficult to get rid of, [[vice]]
#: ''Rökning var hans enda last''

====See also====
* [[lasta]] (1)
* [[lastbil]] (1)
* [[vana]] (3)
* [[ovana]] (3)

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[ar:last]]
[[et:last]]
[[el:last]]
[[es:last]]
[[fa:last]]
[[fr:last]]
[[ko:last]]
[[io:last]]
[[it:last]]
[[kk:last]]
[[ku:last]]
[[lo:last]]
[[hu:last]]
[[nl:last]]
[[ja:last]]
[[no:last]]
[[pl:last]]
[[pt:last]]
[[ru:last]]
[[simple:last]]
[[fi:last]]
[[sv:last]]
[[ta:last]]
[[te:last]]
[[th:last]]
[[vi:last]]
[[tr:last]]
[[uk:last]]
[[zh:last]]