==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[laff]] {{qualifier|eye dialect}}
* [[laughe]] {{qualifier|archaic}}
* [[larf]] {{qualifier|[[Cockney]] eye dialect}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|laughen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|hlehhan}}, {{term|hlæhan|lang=ang}}, {{term|hlihhan|lang=ang}}, {{term|hliehhan||to laugh, laugh at, deride, rejoice
|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|hlahjanan|to laugh|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|klek-||kleg-|to shout|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|lauch||to laugh|lang=sco}}, West Frisian {{term|laitsje||to laugh|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|lachen||to laugh, smile|lang=nl}}, German {{term|lachen||to laugh|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|le||to laugh|lang=da}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|hlæja||to laugh|lang=is}}, Albanian {{term|qesh||to laugh|lang=sq}} < arc. {{term|klêsh|lang=sq}}, Latin {{term|glocire|glōcīre|to cluck|lang=la}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|glattire|glattīre|to yelp|lang=la}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|gliccire|gliccīre|to gaggle|lang=la}}, Welsh {{term|cloch||bell|lang=cy}}, Ancient Greek {{term|||tr=klṓssein|to cluck|lang=grc}}, Old Church Slavonic {{term|||tr=klekotŭ|laughter, noise|lang=cu}}, {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|clango|clangō|scream, sound|lang=la}}. Related to {{l|en|clang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Australia}} {{IPA|/laːf/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/la:f/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/lɑːf/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/lA:f/}} 
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|lăf}}, {{IPA|/læf/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/l{f/}}
** {{audio|en-us-laugh.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːf}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
{{examples-right|examples={{audio|Krusty_laugh_impression.ogg|Laugh}}}}

# An expression of [[mirth]] particular to the human [[species]]; the sound heard in laughing; [[laughter]].
#* '''1803''', [[w:Oliver Goldsmith|Oliver Goldsmith]], ''The Poetical Works of Oliver Goldsmith, M.B.: With an Account of His Life'', page 45:
#*: And the loud '''laugh''' that spoke the vacant mind.
#* '''1869''', [[w:F. W. Robertson|F. W. Robertson]], ''Lectures and Addresses on Literary and Social Topics'', page 87:
#*: That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty '''laugh'''.
# Something that provokes mirth or scorn.
#* '''1921''', Ring W. Lardner, ''The Big Town: How I and the Mrs. Go to New York to See Life and Get Katie a Husband'', The Bobbs-Merrill Company, page 73:
#*: “And this rug,” he says, stomping on an old rag carpet. “How much do you suppose that cost?”
#*: It was my first guess, so I said fifty dollars.
#*: “'''That’s a laugh''',” he said. “I paid two thousand for that rug.”
#* '''1979''', {{w|Monty Python}}, ''{{w|Always Look on the Bright Side of Life}}''
#*: Life's a piece of shit
#*: When you look at it
#*: Life's a '''laugh''' and death's a joke, it's true.
# {{UK}} A [[fun]] person.
#* '''2010''', {{w|The Times}} March 14, 2010, ''Tamzin Outhwaite, the unlikely musical star'' [http://entertainment.timesonline.co.uk/tol/arts_and_entertainment/article7057054.ece]
#*: Outhwaite is a good '''laugh''', yes, she knows how to smile: but deep down, she really is strong and stern.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|expression of mirth}} [[cackle]], [[chortle]], [[chuckle]], [[giggle]], [[guffaw]], [[snicker]], [[snigger]], [[titter]], [[cachinnation]]
* {{sense|something that provokes mirth or scorn}} [[joke]], [[laughing stock]]

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[barrel of laughs]]
* [[belly laugh]]
* [[bundle of laughs]]
* [[evil laugh]]
* a [[laugh a minute]]<!--an amusing person-->
* [[for a laugh]]<!--as in "do something for laugh" = "do something for amusement"-->
* [[have a laugh]]<!--as in "You're having a laugh, aren't you?" = "You can't be serious!"-->
* [[have the last laugh]]
* [[horselaugh]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[laughathon]]
* [[laughless]]
* [[laughlike]]
* [[laughline]]
* [[laugh machine]]
* [[laughsome]]
* [[laugh track]]
* [[laughworthy]]
* [[laughy]]
* [[liquid laugh]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expression of mirth peculiar to the human species}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|qeshje}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծիծաղ|tr=çiçaġ}}
* Aromanian: {{t-|rup|arãs}}
* Basque: {{t-|eu|barre|xs=Basque}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|riure|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|笑聲|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|笑声|tr=xiàoshēng|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|笑|tr=xiào|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|smijeh|m|alt=smijȇh}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|latter|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lach|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|rido|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|naer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nauru}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rire|m}}
* Friulian: {{tø|fur|ridade}}, {{tø|fur|ridi}}
* German: {{t+|de|Lachen|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|צחוק|m|tr=tskhok}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlátur}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|gáire|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|riso|m}}, {{t+|it|risata|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|笑い|tr=warai}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|웃음소리|tr=useum|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|웃음소리|tr=useumsori|sc=Hang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[پێکه‌نین]]}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|smīklys}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|risus|m|alt=rīsus}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|smiekli|p}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|juokas|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|Laach|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|смеа|f|tr=sméa}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|ketawa}}, {{t-|ms|gelak}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|ചിരി|tr=chiri|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}, {{t-|ml|പൊട്ടിച്ചിരി|tr=pottichchiri|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|latter|m}}, {{t-|no|lått|m}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|ris}}, {{t-|oc|risada}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|śmiech|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|riso|m}}, {{t+|pt|risada|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|râs}}, {{t-|ro|râset}}
* Romansch: {{t-|rm|riez}}, {{t-|rm|riem}}, {{t-|rm|riöz}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смех|tr=smex}} {{m}}
* Sardinian: {{t-|sc|rizu}}, {{t-|sc|risu}}, {{t-|sc|arrisu}}, {{t-|sc|errisu}}
* Scots: [[lauch]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|smeh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|risa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skratt|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something that provokes mirth or scorn}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|qeshje}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lach|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|naurunaihe}}, {{t+|fi|vitsi}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|笑い物|tr=waraimono}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|ludibrium|alt=lūdibrium}} {{n}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|vits|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смех|tr=smex}} {{m}}, {{t+|ru|умора|tr=umóra}} {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|laughs|laughing|'''[[laughed]]''', '''[[laught]]''', {{qualifier|obsolete}}, '''[[laugh'd]]''' (''obsolete''), '''[[low]]''' (''obsolete'')|'''[[laughed]]''', '''[[laught]]''', {{qualifier|obsolete}}, '''[[laugh'd]]''' (''obsolete''), '''[[laughen]]''' {{qualifier|obsolete}}}}

# {{intransitive}} To show [[mirth]], [[satisfaction]], or [[derision]], by [[peculiar]] [[movement]] of the [[muscle]]s of the [[face]], particularly of the [[mouth]], causing a [[lighting]] up of the face and [[eye]]s, and usually accompanied by the [[emission]] of [[explosive]] or [[chuckling]] [[sound]]s from the [[chest]] and [[throat]]; to [[indulge]] in [[laughter]].
#* '''c. 1602''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Troilus and Cressida'', act I, scene ii:
#*: But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba '''laugh''''d that her eyes ran o'er.
#* '''1899''', Stephen Crane, ''Twelve O'Clock''
#*: The roars of laughter which greeted his proclamation were of two qualities; some men '''laughing''' because they knew all about cuckoo-clocks, and other men '''laughing''' because they had concluded that the eccentric Jake had been victimised by some wise child of civilisation.
#* '''1979''', {{w|Monty Python}}, ''{{w|Always Look on the Bright Side of Life}}''
#*: If life seems jolly rotten
#*: There's something you've forgotten
#*: And that's to '''laugh''' and smile and dance and sing.
# {{intransitive|obsolete|figuratively}} To be or appear cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively, or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport.
#* '''1693''', [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]], "Of the Pythagorean Philosophy", from the 15th book of Ovid's ''Metamorphoses''
#*: Then '''laughs''' the childish year, with flowerets crowned{{...}}
#* '''1734''', [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]], ''An Essay on Man'', Chapter 3
#*: In Folly’s cup ſtill '''laughs''' the bubble Joy.
# {{intransitive|followed by "at"}} To make an object of [[laughter]] or [[ridicule]]; to make fun of; to [[deride]]; to [[mock]].
#* '''1731-1735''', [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]], ''Moral essays''
#*: No wit to flatter left of all his store, No fool to '''laugh''' at, which he valu'd more.
#* '''1890''', {{w|Oscar Wilde}}, ''{{w|The Picture of Dorian Gray}}'' Chapter 3
#*: There was something about him, Harry, that amused me. He was such a monster. You will '''laugh''' at me, I know, but I really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the present day I can't make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn't! – my dear Harry, if I hadn't, I would have missed the greatest romance of my life. I see you are laughing. It is horrid of you!"
#* '''1967''', {{w|The Beatles}}, ''{{w|Penny Lane}}''
#*: On the corner is a banker with a motorcar
#*: The little children '''laugh''' at him behind his back
# {{transitive}} To [[affect]] or [[influence]] by means of laughter or ridicule.
#* '''1611''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''{{w|The Tempest}}'', act II, scene i:
#*: Will you '''laugh''' me asleep, for I am very heavy?
#* '''1611''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''The Tempest'', act II, scene ii:
#*: I shall '''laugh''' myself to death.
# {{transitive}} To express by, or utter with, laughter.
#* '''1602''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Troilus and Cressida'', act I, scene iii:
#*: From his deep chest '''laughs''' out a loud applause.
#* '''1866''', {{w|Louisa May Alcott}}, ''Behind A Mask or, A Woman's Power''; Chapter 8
#*: Fairfax addressed her as "my lady," she '''laughed''' her musical laugh, and glanced up at a picture of Gerald with eyes full of exultation.
#* '''1906''', {{w|Jack London}}, ''Moonface''
#*: "You refuse to take me seriously," Lute said, when she had '''laughed''' her appreciation." "How can I take that Planchette rigmarole seriously?"

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|show mirth by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face}} [[cackle]], [[chortle]], [[chuckle]], [[giggle]], [[guffaw]], [[snicker]], [[snigger]], [[titter]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:laugh]]

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|show mirth by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face}} [[cry]]

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[belly-laugh]]
* [[burst out laughing]]
* [[don't make me laugh]]
* [[he who laughs last laughs best]]
* [[he who laughs last laughs longest]]
* [[laughable]]
* [[laugh all the way to the bank]]
* [[laugh away]]<!--*: To drive away by laughter; as, to '''laugh away''' regret.
*: To waste in hilarity.
*::* {{rfdate}} Pompey doth this day '''laugh away''' his fortune." — Shakespeare, ''Antony and Cleopatra, II-vi''-->
* [[laugh down]]<!--
*: To cause to [[cease]] or [[desist]] by laughter; as, to '''laugh down''' a speaker.
*: To cause to be given up on account of ridicule; as, to '''laugh down''' a reform.-->
* [[laugher]]
* [[laughing]]<!--adjective, as in "laughing gas"; noun-->
* [[laugh in someone's face]]
* [[laugh in the sleeve]]<!-- = to [[laugh up one’s sleeve]]-->
* [[laugh like a drain]]
* [[laugh like a hyena]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[laugh off]]
* [[laugh one out of]]<!--: to cause one by laughter or ridicule to [[abandon]] or give up; as, to '''laugh one out of''' a plan or purpose-->
* [[laugh one's head off]]
* [[laugh on the other side of one's face]]
* [[laugh out]], [[laugh out loud]]
* [[laugh out of the other corner of the mouth]], [[laugh out of the other side of the mouth]]<!--, {{qualifier|slang}}: to [[weep]] or [[cry]]; to feel [[regret]], [[vexation]], or [[disappointment]] after [[hilarity]] or [[exaltation]].-->
* [[laugh to scorn]]<!--: to deride; to treat with [[mockery]], [[contempt]], and [[scorn]]; to [[despise]].-->
* [[laugh track]]<!-- recorded laughter mixed in with a performance.; synonym: [[canned laughter]]-->
* [[laugh up one’s sleeve]]<!-- to laugh [[secretly]], or so as not to be observed, especially while apparently preserving a [[grave]] or serious [[demeanor]] toward the person or persons laughed at.-->
* [[LOL]]
* [[outlaugh]]
* [[unlaugh]]
* [[you're having a laugh]]
* [[you've got to laugh]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[laughster]]
* [[laughter]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|show mirth by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face and emission of sounds}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|qesh|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ضحك|tr=DaHika}}
* Aramaic:
*: [[Syriac]]: {{tø|syc|ܓܚܟ|tr=għek|sc=Syrc}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծիծաղել|tr=çiçaġel}}
* Aromanian: {{t-|rup|arãdu}}
* Basque: {{t-|eu|barre egin|xs=Basque}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ရယ်|tr=yi|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|riure}}
* Chinese:
*: [[Dungan]]: {{tø|dng|щё|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|笑|tr=xiào|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|發笑|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|发笑|tr=fāxiào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|smát}} se
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|redro}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|le}}, {{t+|da|grine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lachen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ridi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|naerda}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nauraa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rire}}
* Friulian: {{tø|fur|riri}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|rir|xs=Galician}}
* {{trreq|Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|lachen}}
* Greenlandic: {{t-|kl|illarpoq|xs=Greenlandic}}, {{t-|kl|illaatigaa|xs=Greenlandic}} (''trans.'')
* Hawaiian: {{tø|haw|ʻaka}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|हँसना|tr=hãsnā|sc=Deva}} / {{t-|hi|हंसना|tr=hãsnā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nevet}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlæja}}
* Interlingua: {{t-|ia|rider|xs=Interlingua}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|gáir|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ridere}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|笑う|tr=わらう, warau|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|សើច|tr=saǝc|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|웃다|tr=utda|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{ku-Arab|[[پێکه‌نین]]}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|rideo}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|smieties}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|juoktis}}
* Lojban: {{t-|jbo|cmila}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t-|lb|laachen}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|се смее|tr=se smée}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|tawa}}, {{t-|ms|ketawa}}, {{t-|ms|gelak}}
* Malayalam: {{t-|ml|പൊട്ടിച്ചിരിക്കുക|tr=pottichchirikkuka|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}, {{t+|ml|അട്ടഹസിക്കുക|tr=attahasikkuka|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}
* Mizo: {{tø|lus|nui}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|le}}, {{t-|no|skratte}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|rire}}, {{t+|oc|rider}}, {{t+|oc|arríder}}
* Old Provençal: {{tø|pro|ridre}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|خندیدن|tr=xandidan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|śmiać się}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|rir}}
* Rapa Nui: {{tø|rap|kata}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|râde}}
* Romansch: {{t-|rm|rir|xs=Romansch}}, {{t-|rm|reir}}, {{t-|rm|rier}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смеяться|tr=smeját's'a}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|хохотать|tr=xoxotát'}} {{impf}}
* Sardinian: {{t-|sc|risulare}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|dèan gàire|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Sicilian: {{t+|scn|rìdiri}}, {{t+|scn|arrìdiri}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|smejati se}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reír}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skratta}}
* Tajik: {{t-|tg|хандидан|tr=xandidan|sc=Cyrl|xs=Tajik}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|ہنسنا|tr=hãsnā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|laitsje|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be or appear cheerful}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|gazmor}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|smát}} se
* Danish: {{t+|da|smile}}, {{t+|da|grine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lachen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|iloita}}, {{t+|fi|nauraa}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlæja}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|le}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|make an object of laughter or ridicule}}
* Ainu: {{tø|ain|エミナ|tr=emina}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|tall}}, {{t-|sq|përqesh}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծիծաղել|tr=çiçaġel}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|posmívat}} se
* Danish: {{t-|da|le ad}}, {{t+|da|gøre}} {{t+|da|sig}} {{t-|da|lystig}} {{t+|da|over}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lachen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkata}}, {{t+|fi|nauraa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rire|alt=se rire de}}, {{t+|fr|moquer|alt=se moquer de}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlæja}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|笑い飛ばす|tr=warai tobasu}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|rideo|alt=rīdēre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|се потсмева|tr=se pótsmeva}}, {{t-|mk|исмејува|tr=isméjuva}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|പരിഹസിക്കുക|tr=parihasikkuka|sc=Mlym|xs=Malayalam}}
* Mizo: {{tø|lus|nuihzat}}, {{tø|lus|nuihsawh}}, {{tø|lus|nuih}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|le}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|wyśmiewać}}, {{t-|pl|obśmiewać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|zoar}}, {{t-|pt|tirrar sarro}}, {{t+|pt|caçoar}}, {{t+|pt|escarnecer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смеяться|tr=smeját's'a}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|насмехаться|tr=nasmexát's'a}} {{impf}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|zasmehovati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|reírse}} de
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skratta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|affect or influence by means of laughter}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|përqesh}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|grine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lachen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|naurattaa}}, {{t+|fi|nauraa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlæja}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|一笑に付す|tr=isshō ni fusu}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|засмева|tr=zásmeva}}
* Mizo: {{tø|lus|nuih}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|express by, or utter with, laughter}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|qeshem}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|grine}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lachen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nauraa}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hlæja}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|le}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|af}}: [[lag#Afrikaans|lag]]
* {{ttbc|br}}: [[c'hoarzhin]]
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[smijati]] (se)
* {{ttbc|got}}: [[𐌷𐌻𐌰𐌷𐌾𐌰𐌽]] (hlahjan)
* {{ttbc|gn}}: [[puka]]
* {{ttbc|haw}}: [['aka]]
* {{ttbc|he}}: {{t-|he|צחק|tr=tsakhák}}
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[ridar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[tawa|tertawa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ku}}: {{t|ku|kenîn}}, {{t|ku|kenandin}}
* {{ttbc|jbo}}: [[cmila]] (1), [[mi'afra]] (2)
* {{ttbc|mi}}: [[kata#Maori|kata]]
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[hlæhhan]], [[hliehhan]]
* {{ttbc|sm}}: [['ata]]
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[smiech]], [[rehot]]
* {{ttbc|sw}}: [[kucheka]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[నవ్వు]]
* {{ttbc|to}}: [[kata#Tongan|kata]]
* {{ttbc|tpn}}: [[puká]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[gülmek]]
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[cười]]
* {{ttbc|cy}}: [[chwerthin]]
{{trans-bottom}}
''Note: the following were in a translation table for "be or appear gay", which, given the modern meanings, is misleading; the title of this table has now been changed to "be or appear cheerful". The translations therefore need to be checked.''
* {{ttbc|sl}}: [[nasmejan]] (biti)

===See also===
* [[aphonogelia]]
* [[comedy]]
* [[gelotology]]
* [[funny]]
* [[ha ha]]
* [[tee hee]], [[tee hee hee]]

===Anagrams===
* [[Aghul#English|Aghul]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English reporting verbs]]
[[Category:en:Laughter]]

[[ar:laugh]]
[[ast:laugh]]
[[az:laugh]]
[[cs:laugh]]
[[cy:laugh]]
[[de:laugh]]
[[et:laugh]]
[[el:laugh]]
[[es:laugh]]
[[eo:laugh]]
[[eu:laugh]]
[[fa:laugh]]
[[fr:laugh]]
[[ko:laugh]]
[[hr:laugh]]
[[io:laugh]]
[[id:laugh]]
[[it:laugh]]
[[kn:laugh]]
[[kk:laugh]]
[[ku:laugh]]
[[lo:laugh]]
[[lv:laugh]]
[[li:laugh]]
[[hu:laugh]]
[[mg:laugh]]
[[ml:laugh]]
[[my:laugh]]
[[nl:laugh]]
[[ja:laugh]]
[[no:laugh]]
[[oc:laugh]]
[[pl:laugh]]
[[pt:laugh]]
[[ro:laugh]]
[[ru:laugh]]
[[sm:laugh]]
[[simple:laugh]]
[[sk:laugh]]
[[fi:laugh]]
[[sv:laugh]]
[[tl:laugh]]
[[ta:laugh]]
[[te:laugh]]
[[th:laugh]]
[[tr:laugh]]
[[uk:laugh]]
[[vi:laugh]]
[[zh:laugh]]