==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[lanch]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|lônch}}, {{IPA|/lɔːntʃ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/lO:ntS/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|lônch}}, {{IPA|/lɔntʃ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/lOntS/}}
* {{a|cot-caught}} {{IPA|/lɑntʃ/}} {{X-SAMPA|/lAntS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-launch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɔːntʃ}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|launchen||to throw as a lance|lang=ang}}, {{etyl|fro}} {{term|lanchier|lang=fro}}, another form ({{etyl|ONF.}}/Norman variant, compare Jèrriais ''[[lanchi]]'') of {{term|lancier|lang=fro}}, French {{term|lancer|lang=fr}}, from {{term|lance|lang=fr}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|launch|es}}

# {{transitive}} To [[throw]], as a [[lance]] or [[dart]]; to [[hurl]]; to let [[fly]]; to [[send off]], [[propel]] with force.
#* '''2011''', Stephen Budiansky, ''Perilous Fight: America's Intrepid War with Britain on the High Seas, 1812-1815'', page 323
#*: There they were met by four thousand Ha'apa'a warriors, who '''launched''' a volley of stones and spears{{...}}
# {{transitive|obsolete}} To [[pierce]] with, or as with, a [[lance]].
#* '''1591''', [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]], ''The Teares of the Muses''
#*: And '''launch''' your hearts with lamentable wounds.
# {{transitive}} To cause to move or [[slide]] from the land into the water; to set [[afloat]].
#: ''The navy '''launched''' another ship.''
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Luke|5|4}}
#*: Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, '''Launch''' out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
#* '''1725–1726''', [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]], ''Homer's Odyssey'' (translation), Book V
#*: With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship, And rolled on levers, '''launched''' her in the deep.
# {{transitive}} To [[send]] out; to start (one) on a [[career]]; to set going; to give a start to (something); to put in [[operation]].
#: ''Our business '''launched''' a new project.''
#: ''Double-click an icon to '''launch''' the associated application.''
#* '''1649''', ''[[w:Eikon Basilike|Eikon Basilike]]''
#*: All art is uſed to ſink Epiſcopacy, & '''lanch''' Presbytery in ''England''.
# {{intransitive|often with out}} To move with [[force]] and [[swiftness]] like a sliding from the [[stock]]s into the water; to [[plunge]]; to make a beginning.
#: ''to '''launch''' into an argument or discussion''
#: ''to '''launch''' into lavish expenditures''
#* '''1718''', [[w:Matthew Prior|Matthew Prior]], ''Solomon: On the Vanity of the World'', Preface
#*: In our language, Spenſer has not contented himſelf with this ſubmiſſive manner of imitation : he '''launches''' out into very flowery paths{{...}}
#* '''1969''', [[w:Maya Angelou|Maya Angelou]], ''I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings'', ch. 23:
#*: My class was wearing butter-yellow pique dresses, and Momma '''launched''' out on mine. She smocked the yoke into tiny crisscrossing puckers, then shirred the rest of the bodice.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to pierce}} [[lance]], [[pierce]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|throw, hurl, let fly, propel with force}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|أطلق|tr='áTlaqa}},  {{t-|ar|قذف|tr=qádhafa}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|llançar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|發射|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|发射|tr=fāshè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hodit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|werpen}}, {{t+|nl|gooien}}, {{t+|nl|smijten}}, {{t+|nl|lanceren}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|lanĉi}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|heitma}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laukaista}}, {{t+|fi|heittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lancer}}
* German: {{t-|de|abschießen}},  {{t+|de|lancieren}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|lanciare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|発射|alt=発射する|tr=はっしゃする, hassha-surú}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|запускать|tr=zapuskát'}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|запустить|tr=zapustít'}} {{pf.}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vrhnúť}}, {{t-|sk|hodiť}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lanzar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|strike with, or as with, a lance; to pierce}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spietsen}}, {{t+|nl|doorboren}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|sööstma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|lancear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to move or slide from the land into the water}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lanceren}}, {{t-|nl|te water laten}}
* Finnish: [[laskea vesille]]
* Latin: {{t+|la|deduco|alt=dēdūcō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|spustiť}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sjösätta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|send out; start on a career; set going; give a start to; put in operation}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lanceren}}, {{t+|nl|aanzetten}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|välja saatma}}, {{t+|et|käivitama}}, {{t-|et|alustama}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[lanseerata]], [[tuoda markkinoille]]
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vypustiť}}, {{t-|sk|odštartovať}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[lanĉi]]
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[lancer]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[lanzar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# The act of launching.
# The [[movement]] of a [[vessel]] from land into the [[water]]; especially, the sliding on [[ways]] from the [[stocks]] on which it is built. (Compare: to [[splash]] a ship.)

=====Derived terms=====
* [[launching ways]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|act of launching}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|llançament}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|發射|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|发射|tr=fāshè|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|worp|m}},  {{t-|nl|lancering|f}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|heide}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|laukaisu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lancement|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|発射|tr=はっしゃ, hassha}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|запуск|m|tr=zápusk}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|lanzamiento|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|movement of a vessel from land into the water}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|lancering|f}}, {{t+|nl|tewaterlating|f}}
* Finnish: [[vesillelasku]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|спуск|m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|sjösättning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|pt|en}} {{term|lancha||barge, launch}}, apparently from {{etyl|ms|en}} {{term|lancar||quick, agile|lang=ms}}. Spelling influenced by the verb above.<ref>{{R:Online_Etymology_Dictionary}}</ref>

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{context|nautical}} The [[boat]] of the largest size and/or of most importance belonging to a [[ship]] of war, and often called the "captain's boat" or "captain's launch".
# {{context|nautical}} A boat used to convey guests to and from a [[yaucht]].
# {{context|nautical}} An open boat of any size powered by steam, [[naphtha]], electricity, or the like. (Compare Spanish ''[[lancha]]''.)

=====Derived terms=====
* [[captain’s launch]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kaater}}
* Finnish: [[vesillelasku]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άκατος|f|tr=ákatos}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|баркас|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A boat used to convey guests to and from a yaucht}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|άκατος|f|tr=ákatos}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|баркас|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|An open boat of any size powered by steam, naphtha, electricity, or the like}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|баркас|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[barge]]
* [[boat]]
* [[ship’s boat]]
* [[yacht]]

===Anagrams===
* [[nuchal#English|nuchal]]

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

[[cy:launch]]
[[et:launch]]
[[el:launch]]
[[eo:launch]]
[[fa:launch]]
[[fr:launch]]
[[ko:launch]]
[[io:launch]]
[[it:launch]]
[[kn:launch]]
[[hu:launch]]
[[mg:launch]]
[[ml:launch]]
[[my:launch]]
[[ja:launch]]
[[oc:launch]]
[[km:launch]]
[[pl:launch]]
[[ru:launch]]
[[simple:launch]]
[[fi:launch]]
[[sv:launch]]
[[tl:launch]]
[[ta:launch]]
[[te:launch]]
[[vi:launch]]
[[zh:launch]]