{{also|laura}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[Lora]] (rare)

===Etymology===
From Late {{etyl|la|en}} saint's name {{term|Laura|lang=la}}, from the feminine form of {{term|laurus||laurel tree|lang=la}}. A post-classical name made famous by [[Petrarch]]'s sonnets to Laura in the fourteenth century.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɔːrə|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|from=Latin}}.
#* '''~1591''' William Shakespeare: ''Romeo and Juliet'': Act II, Scene IV:
#*: Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in; '''Laura''' to his lady was but a kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to be-rime her;
#* '''1960''' Peter S. Beagle: ''A Fine And Private Place''. Random House Publishing, 1982:The Fantasy Worlds of Peter Beagle. ISBN 0345300815 page 258:
#*: '''Laura''' was saying something. A mellifluous name, he thought. I wish she were far away, so I could call her.

====Usage notes====
* Also used as a feminine equivalent of [[Laurence]].

====Related terms====
* [[Laurel]], [[Lauren]], [[Laurie]], [[Loretta]], [[Lori]], [[Lorraine]], [[Lauretta]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|female given name}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Laura}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Laura}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|Laura}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Laura}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Laura}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Laura}}, {{t+|fr|Laure}}
* German: {{t+|de|Laura}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Λαύρα|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לורה|f|tr=lóra|sc=Hebr}}, {{t|he|לאורה|f|tr=láura|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Laura}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Laura}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ローラ|tr=Rōra}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Laura}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Laura|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Laura}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|Laura|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|Laura}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|Ло́ра|f}}, {{t+|ru|Ла́ура|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Lavra|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Laura}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Laura}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|Lowri|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[aural#English|aural]]

----

==Czech==
{{wikipedia|lang=cs}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|cs}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{cs-proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=cs}}.

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|da}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=da}}.

===References===
* [http://www.danskernesnavne.navneforskning.ku.dk/ ] Danskernes Navne, based on CPR data: 21 161 females with the given name Laura have been registered in Denmark between about 1890 (=the population alive in 1967) and January 2005, with the frequency peak in the 2000s. Accessed on 19 June 2011.

----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|et}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|et|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=et}}.

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fi}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈlɑurɑ]|lang=fi}}
* {{rhymes|ɑurɑ|lang=fi}}
* {{hyphenation|Lau|ra|lang=fi}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=fi}}.
#* '''1931''' {{w|Frans Emil Sillanpää}}, ''Nuorena nukkunut'', in ''Silja ja Ihmiset suviyössä'', Suuri Suomalainen Kirjakerho (1988), ISBN 951-643-290-5, page 63:
#*: Ja sen jälkeen taas parin vuoden kuluttua tyttö, jonka nimeksi pantiin '''Laura''', sekin Salmeluksen vanhoja perintönimiä.
#* '''1991''' {{w|Anna-Leena Härkönen}}, ''Akvaariorakkautta'', Otava (2008), ISBN 978-951-1-17321-2, s.183:
#*: —Tässä on meidän '''Laura''' ja tuo pienempi on Suvi, Marita sano.
#*: Mä ajattelin tylsänä että kiva ku joku sinänsä epäsovinnainen ihminen oli antanu lapsilleen ihan normaalit nimet eikä mitään muotiväännöksiä niin ku monet. Kaikki sampot ja santerit ja tonterit säälittää mua suunnattomasti.
#* '''2013''' {{w|Kari Hotakainen}}, ''Luonnon laki'', Siltala, ISBN 978-952-234-185-3, pages 17-18:
#*: Sen ojensi hänelle sairaanhoitaja, jonka vasemman rinnan yläpuolella oli nimikyltti: '''Laura'''. Nimi toi Rautalan mieleen vanhojen elokuvien palvelijan, joka alistuneesti nyökkäillen sipsuttelee isossa ruokasalissa tarkistamassa, että kaikki on varmasti valmiina mahakkaan tilanomistajan ja hänen rouvansa ruokailuhetkeä varten. Kävi mielessä myös mainoksen Elovena-tyttö, vaikka '''Lauran''' hiuksen olivat pikimustat ja hänellä oli korvissaan mustat napit. Hutiin siis meni Rautalan arvaus.

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-kala|Laur|||a}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}. A Latinate variant of {{term|Laure|lang=fr}}.

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=fr}}.

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|de}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=de}}.

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|it}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{it-proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=it}}.

----

==Latvian==

===Etymology===
First recorded as a given name of Latvians in 1819. From {{etyl|la|lv}} {{term|Laura|lang=lv}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|lv|proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=lv}}.

====Related terms====
* [[Lauris]]

===References===
* Klāvs Siliņš: Latviešu personvārdu vārdnīca. Riga "Zinātne" 1990, ISBN 5-7966-0278-0
* [http://www.pmlp.gov.lv/lv/statistika/personvardu.html] Population Register of Latvia: Laura was the only given name of 8301 persons in Latvia on May 21st 2010.

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|no}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=no}}.

----

==Portuguese==

===Proper noun===
{{pt-proper noun|f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=pt|eq=Laura}}

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|es|proper noun|f}}

# {{given name|female|lang=es}}.

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|sv}} {{term|Laura|lang=la}}. First recorded in Sweden in 1737.

===Proper noun===
{{head|sv|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=sv}}.

[[ca:Laura]]
[[cs:Laura]]
[[de:Laura]]
[[et:Laura]]
[[el:Laura]]
[[es:Laura]]
[[fr:Laura]]
[[ko:Laura]]
[[it:Laura]]
[[lt:Laura]]
[[hu:Laura]]
[[nl:Laura]]
[[no:Laura]]
[[pl:Laura]]
[[pt:Laura]]
[[ru:Laura]]
[[sr:Laura]]
[[sh:Laura]]
[[fi:Laura]]
[[sv:Laura]]
[[th:Laura]]