{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|ground|understand|fine|431|law|show|terms|sort}}

===Pronunciation===
* [[AHD]]: lô
* [[IPA]]: /lɔː/
* [[SAMPA]]: /<tt>lO:</tt>/
* {{audio|en-us-law.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en-uk-law.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː|-ɔː]]

====Homophones====
* [[lore]] (''in [[non-rhotic]] accents'')

===Etymology===

Old English [[lagu]].

“Forming the Plural Form of Nouns ”

1. Most nouns form the plural by adding S to the singular.
Example: 	idea-ideas		car-cars

2. Nouns which ends in s, sh, ch, x or z form the plural adding es. 
Example: 	box-boxes		dish-dishes

3. Nouns ending in y preceded by constant form the plural by changing y to I and adding es.
Example:	baby-babies	dormitory-dormitories

4. Nouns ending in y preceded by words forms the plural by merely adding s.
Example: 	toy-toys		valley-valleys

5. Some nouns ending in f or fe form the plural by changing f or fe to v and adding s or es.
Example:	self-selves		life-lives

6. Some nouns return the f in the plural form.
Example:	roof-roofs		belief-beliefs

7. Nouns ending in o preceded by a vowel form the plural by adding s.
Example: 	bamboo-bamboos	radio-radios

8. Nouns ending in o preceded by a consonant form the plural by adding es.
Example: 	hero-heroes	tomato-tomatoes

9. Words pertaining to music that end in o form their plural by adding s.
Example:	solo-solos		piano-pianos

10. Some nouns show plural inflection by changes in form.
Example: goose-geese		child-children

11. Nouns ending in sis change I to e in the plural.
Example: crisis-crises		parenthesis-parentheses

12. Foreign nouns ending in us form the plural by changing the ending to I.
Example: 	cactus-cacti	fungus-fungi

13. Nouns ending in um or on form the plural by changing the ending to a.
Example: 	datum-data		curriculum-curricula

14. Compound noun form the plural in different ways in general is or es is added to the most important word.
Example: 	brother-in-law brothers-in-law	father-in-law fathers-in-law

15. Some nouns have the same singular and plural.
Example: 	deer-deer	money-money

16. Some words are always plural.
Example:	scissors	eye glasses

17. Plural of numbers and letters are form by adding s.
Example:	m’s		7’s

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Legal terms]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Law]]

----

==Lower Sorbian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|lьvъ|lang=dsb}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|lewo-|lang=dsb}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|dsb|noun|g=m}}

# [[lion]]

[[Category:dsb:Mammals]]

----

==Sranan Tongo==

===Verb===
{{infl|srn|verb}}

# To be [[crazy]]

[[ar:law]]
[[zh-min-nan:law]]
[[de:law]]
[[et:law]]
[[es:law]]
[[fa:law]]
[[fr:law]]
[[hy:law]]
[[io:law]]
[[it:law]]
[[kk:law]]
[[ku:law]]
[[lo:law]]
[[la:law]]
[[lt:law]]
[[hu:law]]
[[ja:law]]
[[pl:law]]
[[pt:law]]
[[simple:law]]
[[fi:law]]
[[ta:law]]
[[vi:law]]
[[tr:law]]
[[uk:law]]
[[zh:law]]