{{also|lawę|ławe|ławę}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Perhaps from {{m|en|law}} because the practice was ordained by law. Few dictionaries comment directly on the etymology of the sense, but several (which also spell the infinitive ''law'') group it with the other verb and noun senses derived from {{cog|ang|lagu||law}}.<ref>{{R:Century 1911|law}}</ref><ref>{{R:Dictionary.com|law}}</ref>

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To cut off the [[claw]]s and [[ball]]s of (e.g. a dog's forefeet, to hinder it from hunting).
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1808 |title=Remarks on forest scenery, and other woodland views |author=William Gilpin  |page= |ISBN= |passage=They were enveloped in forms, and easily evaded ; like a '''lawed''' dog, too mutilated to catch their game. }}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1866 |title=Researches Into the History of the British Dog  |author=
George Richard Jesse  |page= |ISBN= |passage=In the 3 Edw II., at a Court-Leet and Court-Baron held for the manor of Sutton-Cold field, in Warwickshire, when the ancient customs of the Lordship from the time of Athelstan and until the coronation of Henry III. were testified to by the Jury, they certified that they had heard their ancestors say that, when Sutton manor was in the hands of the Kings of England, all the Chase was afforested, and all the dogs within the forest used to be '''lawed''', and the left claw of the foot cut off: and after it came into the hands of the Earl of Warwick they had leave to have and hold dogs of all kind unlawed. }}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1950 |title=Transactions of the Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire  |author= |page= |ISBN= |passage=The Vicar of Bacford for the same John Miller there for the same Beatrice de Coghull for one dog not '''lawed'''. }}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2011|title=Sarum |author=
Edward Rutherfurd  |page=511 |ISBN=1446472027 |passage=Godric rarely entered the forest, and, having already trained Harold to help with driving the sheep, at which the young dog had shown a remarkable talent, he had no wish to have him '''lawed'''. }}
#* {{seemoreCites|en}}

====See also====
* [[expediate]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{obsolete spelling of|en|law||system of regulations etc.}}

===References===
<references/>

===Further reading===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aelw|alew|e-law|wale|weal}}

----

==Hawaiian==

===Noun===
{{haw-noun}}

# [[bearer]]

===Verb===
{{haw-verb|t}}

# {{lb|haw|transitive}} to [[transport]], [[carry]], [[take]], [[bring]]
#: ''lawe mai'' – to bring
#: ''lawe aku'' – to take away
# {{lb|haw|stative}} to [[become]]

----

==Middle English==
<!--this Middle English entry was created using Template:new enm entry-->

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|enm|laȝe|laȝhe|lagh|laghe|laugh|lage|laue|lau|law|lauwe|laȝwe}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|enm|ang|lagu}}, in turn borrowed from {{der|enm|non|*lagu}}, a plural of {{m|non|lag}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Early ME}} {{IPA|enm|/ˈlaɣə/}}
* {{IPA|enm|/ˈlau̯(ə)/}}
* {{rhyme|enm|au̯(ə)|s=1}}

===Noun===
{{enm-noun|pl=lawes|pl2=lawen|pl2_qual=Early ME}}

# A [[law]], [[regulation]], or a group of [[them]]:
## [[ecclesiastical|Ecclesiastical]], [[canon]] or church law.
## The regulations followed by a job or group of people.
## Directives, [[obligations]], or [[tasks]] set to someone.
## [[legality|Legality]]; what is legally (and often seen as morally) right.
# [[morality|Morality]], [[natural law]] {{gloss|either instinctual or taught}}:
## The [[Bible]] or one of the two books which it is composed of.
## A [[religion]] {{gloss|especially Christianity}}.
## The [[Torah]] or the moral strictures contained within it.
## One of the [[Ten Commandments]] or their totality.
## The [[regulating]] and [[obligating]] nature of [[marriage]].
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Morality revealed or given from the [[heavens]].
# A law or the [[totality]] of laws active in a community; the law.
## The [[practicing]] of law; litigation, legal action, or part of it.
## The legal [[profession]]; law or the legal system as a [[job]] or [[occupation]].
## A legal [[ruling]] or [[decision]]; [[penalisation]] or [[compensation]].
## A legal [[community]]; the area under the [[aegis]] of a given legal system.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Getting one's [[acquaintances]] to attest one's innocence.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} The law as an [[individual]]; those working in law.
# One's [[behaviour]], [[acts]], [[practices]], or mode of living:
## The usual [[behaviour]] of a group or [[class]] of things.
## The usual [[behaviour]] of a people, nation, or community.
## The [[method]], [[technique]], or [[way]] in which something is accomplished.
## Caution from violence due to law; the effects of [[law and order]].
## {{lb|enm|rare}} A [[trapping]], [[ceremony]], or [[ritual]] that forms part of a religion.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Customs, [[behaviours]], or [[actions]] which are regarded as right; manners.
# The [[administrative]] or [[governmental]] system present in a community.
# A [[scientific]] or [[natural]] law; a statement of truth.
# A [[dispensation]] {{gloss|one of the periods of Christian history}}
# [[information|Information]] or [[wisdom]] from a trustworthy or reliable source.
# A snide or pithy [[axiom]] or statement of a general [[truth]].
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Something which [[effects]] or changes; a [[force]].
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Might or potency; the ability to effect one's will.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} The [[state]] or [[situation]] one is in.

====Related terms====
{{rel4|enm
| brother-in-lawe
| douȝter in lawe
| Dene lawe
| fader in lawe
| lawday
| laweful
| lawely
| laweles
| laweliche
| lawfully
| laufulnes
| lawier
| moder in lawe
| sone in lawe
| suster-in-lawe
}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|en|law}}
* {{desc|sco|law}}
* {{desc|yol|laas|qq=plural}}

====References====
* {{R:MED Online|entry=laue |pos=n |id= MED24815 |accessdate=2019-02-19}}

[[Category:enm:Bible]]
[[Category:enm:Christianity]]
[[Category:enm:Directives]]
[[Category:enm:Education]]
[[Category:enm:Ethics]]
[[Category:enm:Government]]
[[Category:enm:Judaism]]
[[Category:enm:Law]]
[[Category:enm:Marriage]]
[[Category:enm:Religion]]