{{also|Lay|láy|lấy|lẫy|laþ}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|lā}}, {{IPA|en|/leɪ/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-lay.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|eɪ}}
* {{homophones|en|lei|ley|le}}

===Etymology 1===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*legʰ-}}
From {{inh|en|enm|leyen}}, {{m|enm|leggen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|leċġan|t=to lay}}, from {{inh|en|gmw-pro|*laggjan}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*lagjaną||to lay}}, causative form of {{inh|en|gem-pro|*ligjaną|t=to lie, recline}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*legʰ-|t=to lie, recline}}.

Cognate with {{cog|fy|lizze||to lay, to lie}}, {{cog|nl|leggen||to lay}}, {{cog|de|legen||to lay}}, {{cog|nb|legge||to lay}}, {{cog|nn|leggja||to lay}}, {{cog|sv|lägga||to lay}}, {{cog|is|leggja||to lay}}, {{cog|sq|lag||troop, band, war encampment}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lays|laying|laid}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To place down in a [[position]] of [[rest]], or in a [[horizontal]] position.
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' a book on the table; &nbsp; to '''lay''' a body in the grave}}
#: {{ux|en|A shower of rain '''lays''' the dust.}}
#* {{RQ:King James Version|book=Daniel|chapter=6|verse=17|passage=A stone was brought, and '''laid''' upon the mouth of the den.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1735|author=author unknown|title=The New-England Primer|newversion=as reported by|2ndfirst=Fred R.|2ndlast=Shapiro|title2=The Yale Book of Quotations|year2=2006|publisher2=Yale University Press|pages2=549–550|passage=Now I '''lay''' me down to sleep, / I pray the Lord my Soul to keep. / If I should die before I ’wake, / I pray the Lord my Soul to take.}}
#* {{RQ:Churchill Celebrity|chapter=I|page=2|passage=He used to drop into my chambers once in a while to smoke, and was first-rate company. When I gave a dinner there was generally a cover '''laid''' for him.}}
#* {{RQ:Chrsty Atbgrfy|I|4}}
#*: An indulgent playmate, Grannie would '''lay''' aside the long scratchy-looking letter she was writing (heavily crossed ‘to save notepaper’) and enter into the delightful pastime of ‘a chicken from Mr Whiteley's’.
# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To cause to [[subside]] or [[abate]].
#: {{syn|en|becalm|settle down}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1590|authorlink=Edmund Spenser|first=Edmund|last=Spenser|title={{w|The Faerie Queene}}|others=book II, canto viii, verse xlviii|passage=The cloudes, as things affrayd, before him flye; / But all so soone as his outrageous powre / Is '''layd''', they fiercely then begin to shoure {{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1662|authorlink=Sir Thomas Salusbury, 2nd Baronet|first=Sir Thomas|last=Salusbury|title=Galileo's Dialogue Concerning the Two World Systems|others=Dialogue 2|passage=But how upon the winds being '''laid''', doth the ship cease to move?}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1849|authorlink=Alfred, Lord Tennyson|first=Alfred|last=Lord Tennyson|title={{w|In Memoriam A.H.H.}}|others=canto XCVI|passage=He faced the spectres of the mind<br>And '''laid''' them: thus he came at length<br>To find a stronger faith his own;<br>And Power was with him in the night,<br>Which makes the darkness and the light,<br>And dwells not in the light alone,<br>But in the darkness and the cloud}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1895|authorlink=Robert W. Chambers|first=Robert W[illiam]|last=Chambers|chapter=The Yellow Sign|title={{w|The King in Yellow}}|passage=Tessie lay among the cushions, her face a gray blot in the gloom, but her hands were clasped in mine and I knew that she knew and read my thoughts as I read hers, for we had understood the mystery of the Hyades and the Phantom of Truth was '''laid'''.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[prepare]] (a plan, project etc.); to [[set out]], [[establish]] (a law, principle).
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2006|authorlink=Clive James|first=Clive|last=James|title=North Face of Soho|publisher=Picador|year_published=2007|page=48|passage=Even when I '''lay''' a long plan, it is never in the expectation that I will live to see it fulfilled.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[install]] certain building [[material]]s, laying one thing on top of another.
#: {{ux|en|'''lay''' brick;&nbsp; '''lay''' flooring}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To produce and deposit an [[egg]].
#: {{ux|en|the hen '''laid''' an egg}}
#: {{ux|en|Did dinosaurs '''lay''' their eggs in a nest?}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[bet]] (that something is or is not the case).
#: {{ux|en|I'll '''lay''' that he doesn't turn up on Monday.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To deposit (a stake) as a [[wager]]; to [[stake]]; to [[risk]].
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Winter|act=II|scene=i|passage=I dare '''lay''' mine honour / He will remain so.}}
#* '''1902''', John Buchan, ''The Outgoing of the Tide''
#*: He '''laid''' a hundred guineas with the laird of Slofferfield that he would drive four horses through the Slofferfield loch, and in the prank he had his bit chariot dung to pieces and a good mare killed.
# {{lb|en|transitive|slang}} To [[have sex]] with.
#: {{syn|en|lie by|lie with|sleep with|Thesaurus:copulate with}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1944|authorlink=Raymond Chandler|first=Raymond|last=Chandler|title=The Lady in the Lake|publisher=Penguin|year_published=2011|page=11|passage=‘It's because he's a no-good son of a bitch who thinks it is smart to '''lay''' his friends' wives and brag about it.’}}
# {{lb|en|nautical}} To take a [[position]]; to [[come]] or [[go]].
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' forward;&nbsp; to '''lay''' aloft}}
# {{lb|en|legal}} To [[state]]; to [[allege]].
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' the venue}}
#: {{rfquotek|en|Bouvier}}
# {{lb|en|military}} To [[point]]; to [[aim]].
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' a gun}}
# {{lb|en|ropemaking}} To put the [[strand]]s of (a [[rope]], a [[cable]], etc.) in their proper places and [[twist]] or [[unite]] them.
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' a cable or rope}}
# {{lb|en|printing}} To place and arrange (pages) for a [[form]] upon the [[imposing stone]].
# {{lb|en|printing}} To place (new [[type]]) properly in the [[case]]s.
# To [[apply]]; to [[put]].
#* {{RQ:King James Version|book=Proverbs|chapter=31|verse=19|passage=She '''layeth''' her hands to the spindle.}}
# To [[impose]] (a burden, punishment, command, tax, etc.).
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' a tax on land}}
#* {{RQ:King James Version|book=Isaiah|chapter=53|verse=6|passage=The Lord hath '''laid''' on him the iniquity of us all.}}
# To [[impute]]; to [[charge]]; to [[allege]].
#: {{syn|en|ascribe|attribute}}
#* {{RQ:King James Version|book=Job|chapter=24|verse=12|passage=God '''layeth''' not folly to them.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Coriolanus|act=II|scene=iii|passage='''Lay''' the fault on us.}}
# To [[present]] or [[offer]].
#: {{ux|en|to '''lay''' an indictment in a particular county}}
#: {{ux|en|I have '''laid''' the facts of the matter before you.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|proscribed|see usage notes}} To [[lie]]: to rest in a horizontal position on a surface. 
#: ''I found him '''laying''' on the floor.''

=====Conjugation=====
{{en-conj|lay|laid|laid|laying}}

=====Usage notes=====
* The verb ''lay'' is sometimes used instead of the corresponding intransitive verb {{m|en|lie}} in informal settings, especially but not exclusively in spoken language. Similarly, ''laid'', the simple past and past participle of ''lay'', may also replace ''lay'' and ''lain'', respectively the simple past and past participle of ''lie''.
* This intransitive use dates to Middle English, first appearing in the thirteenth century but only becoming common in the fifteenth century. The usage was still chiefly limited to the present tense and it seems that it was influenced by reflexive or passive use of ''lay''.<ref name="OED">“lay v.¹”, in James A. H. Murray [et al.], editors, ''A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles'' (''Oxford English Dictionary''), volume VI, Part 1, London: Clarendon Press (1908), page 128.</ref>
* There are several factors that contribute to the loss of the distinction. One is that ''lay'' is used as both the base form of ''lay'' and as the simple past of ''lie'', another is the use of ''lay'' as a reflexive verb meaning “to go lie (down)”. In any event, similar mergers exist in other Germanic languages; compare {{cog|af|lê||to lie; to lay}}, where the two verbs have merged completely.
* Traditional grammars, schoolbooks and style guides object to this intransitive use of ''lay'' and a certain stigma remains against the practice. Consequently the usage is common in speech but rarely found in edited writing or in more formal spoken situations.
* Nautical use of ''lay'' as an intransitive verb is regarded as standard.<ref name="OED" />

=====Derived terms=====
{{col4|en
|allay
|belay
|forelay
|lay a finger on
|lay a foundation
|lay an egg
|lay about
|lay away
|lay bare
|[[lay-by]]/[[lay by]]
|lay claim
|lay down
|lay hands on
|lay-in
|laying on of hands
|lay into
|lay low
|layoff
|lay on the line
|lay on the table
|lay out
|lay siege
|lay the groundwork
|lay to rest
|lay up
|lay waste
|offlay
|overlay
|get laid
|well-laid
}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to place something down in a position of rest}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|وَضَعَ}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|نعّس|tr=nəʕʕəs}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|слагам}}, {{t+|bg|поставям}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|ajeure}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|放|tr=fàng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|置|tr=zhì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|放置|tr=fàngzhì|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|lægge}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leggen}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|leggja}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laskea}}, {{t+|fi|asettaa}}, {{t+|fi|panna}}, {{t+|fi|laittaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coucher}}, {{t+|fr|poser}}, {{t+|fr|mettre}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|pór}}, {{t+|gl|poñer}}, {{t|gl|deitar}}
* German: {{t+|de|legen}}
* Gothic: {{t|got|𐌻𐌰𐌲𐌾𐌰𐌽}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fektet}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|letak}}<!--meletakkan-->, {{t+check|id|tempat}}<!--menempatkan-->
* Italian: {{t+|it|posare}}, {{t+|it|porre}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|置く|tr=[[おく]], oku|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|産む|tr=[[うむ]]|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|눕다}}, {{t+|ko|엎드리다}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|likt}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|likt}}
* Limburgish:
*: Maastrichtian: {{t+|li|lègke}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatāpapa}} {{qualifier|into a flat position}}, {{t|mi|whakatakoto}}, {{t|mi|whakapapa}} {{qualifier|into a flat position}}, {{t|mi|panga}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|cuccà}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|couochi}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|legge}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|colcar}}, {{t+|oc|jaire}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|lecgan}}, {{t|ang|āleċġan}}
* Old Portuguese: {{t|roa-opt|deitar}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kłaść|impf}}, {{t+|pl|położyć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|deitar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|culca}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|класть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|положи́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|укла́дывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|уложи́ть|pf}}
* Sanskrit: {{t+|sa|दधाति}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|položiti}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|połožyś}} {{qualifier|perfective}}, {{t|dsb|połožowaś}} {{qualifier|imperfective}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acostar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lägga}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|วาง}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yatırmak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|кла́сти}}, {{t|uk|ложи́ти}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|coûtchî}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|לייגן}}, {{t|yi|אַוועקלייגן‎}}
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|ʻǃnàhã}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|archaic: to cause to subside or abate}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|laannuttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to leave something somewhere}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|оставям}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jättää}}
* German: {{t+|de|ablegen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lasciare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|panga}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|legge|alt=legge igjen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|deixar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to prepare groundwork, table etc.}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|слагам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valmistaa}} {{qualifier|general}}, {{t+|fi|laskea}} {{qualifier|groundwork}}, {{t+|fi|kattaa}} {{qualifier|table}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|disporre}}
* Norwegian: {{qualifier|lay a plan}} {{t+|no|legge}}, {{qualifier|lay a table}} {{t+|no|dekke}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|preparar}}, {{t+|pt|dispor}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|накрыва́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|накры́ть|pf}} (''table'')
* Slovene: {{t|sl|položiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|poner}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to install certain building materials}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|полагам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tehdä}} {{qualifier|general}}, {{t+|fi|muurata}} {{qualifier|bricks}}, {{t+|fi|laatoittaa}} {{qualifier|tiles}}
* German: {{t+|de|legen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|posare}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|kluot}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|klāt}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|legge}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|assentar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|укла́дывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|уложи́ть|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|položiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|poner}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|döşemek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|уклада́ти}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to deposit an egg}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|وَضَعَ}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|بيّض}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|снасям}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|下蛋，产卵}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|snést|pf}}, {{t+|cs|snášet|impf}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leggen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|munia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pondre}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|ovâ}}, {{t|fur|pondi}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|pór}}, {{t+|gl|poñer}}
* German: {{t+|de|legen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|deporre}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|生む|tr=うむ, umu|sc=Jpan}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|dēt}}
* Maori: {{t+|mi|whānau}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|usa|alt=huusa}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|pondre}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|legge}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|تخم گذاردن|tr=toxm gozardan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|składać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|złożyć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|botar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|oua}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|откла́дывать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|отложи́ть|pf}}
* Samoan: {{t-needed|sm}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zniesť|pf}}, {{t|sk|znášať|impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|poner}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lägga}}
* Tetum: {{t-needed|tet}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ไข่}}, {{t+|th|วางไข่}}
* Tongan: {{t|to|fakatō}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yumurtlamak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|кла́сти}}, {{t|uk|нести́}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|ponder}}, {{t|vec|pondar}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|đẻ trứng}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|ponre}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to wager}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|залагам}}, {{t|bg|басирам се}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|держа́ть пари́|impf}}, {{t+|ru|би́ться об закла́д|impf}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have sex with}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maata}}, {{t+|fi|panna}}
* German: {{t+|de|flachlegen}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|deitar-se com}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пересыпа́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|переспа́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acostarse}}, {{t+|es|tirar}}, {{t+|es|yacer}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ligga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Further reading====
* {{R:OED2}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# Arrangement or relationship; [[layout]].
#: ''the '''lay''' of the land''
# A share of the profits in a business.
#* '''1851''', [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''[[w:Moby Dick|Moby Dick]]'', [[s:Moby-Dick/Chapter 16|chapter 16]]
#*: I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called '''lays''', and that these '''lays''' were proportioned to the degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship’s company.
# A [[lyrical]], [[narrative]] poem written in [[octosyllabic]] [[couplet]]s that often deals with tales of [[adventure]] and [[romance]].
#* '''1945''': "The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun" by JRR Tolkien
#*: Sad is the note and sad the lay,<br> but mirth we meet not every day.
# The direction a [[rope]] is [[twist]]ed.
#: ''Worm and parcel with the '''lay'''; turn and serve the other way.''
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} A [[casual]] [[sexual partner]].
#* '''1996''', JoAnn Ross, ''Southern Comforts'', MIRA (1996), {{ISBN|9780778315254}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=YcHp02_Ou00C&pg=PA166 page 166]:
#*: Over the years she'd tried to tell himself that his uptown girl was just another '''lay'''.
#* '''2000''', R. J. Kaiser, ''Fruitcake'', MIRA (2000), {{ISBN|1551666251}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=X-Ds57eXf_4C&q=%22his+favorite+lay%22 page 288]:
#*: To find a place like that and be discreet about it, Jones figured he needed help, so he went to see his favorite '''lay''', Juan Carillo's woman, Carmen.
#* '''2011''', Kelly Meding, ''Trance'', Pocket Books (2011), {{ISBN|9781451620924}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=eIIuwj2mbH8C&pg=PA205&dq=%22just+another+lay%22 pages 205-206]:
#*: “Because I don't want William to be just another '''lay'''. I did the slut thing, T, and it got me into a lot of trouble years ago. {{…}}
#: ''What was I, just another '''lay''' you can toss aside as you go on to your next conquest?''
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} An act of [[sexual intercourse]].
#* '''1993''', David Halberstam, ''The Fifties'', Open Road Integrated Media (2012), {{ISBN|9781453286074}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=Of2GI6Qgjc0C&pg=PT26 unnumbered page]:
#*: Listening to this dismissal of his work, [Tennessee] Williams thought to himself of Wilder, “This character has never had a good '''lay'''.”
#* '''2009''', Fern Michaels, ''The Scoop'', Kensington Books (2009), {{ISBN|9780758227188}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=vk40d79EZGAC&pg=PA213 pages 212-213]:
#*: {{…}} She didn't become this germ freak until Thomas died. I wonder if she just needs a good '''lay''', you know, an all-nighter?" Toots said thoughtfully.
#* '''2011''', Pamela Yaye, ''Promises We Make'', Kimani Press (2011), {{ISBN|9780373861996}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=KmyBuTwTWCIC&pg=PT50&dq=%22is+a+good+lay%22 unnumbered page]:
#*: “What she needs is a good '''lay'''. If she had someone to rock her world on a regular basis, she wouldn't be such a raging bit—”
# {{lb|en|slang|archaic}} A [[place]] or [[activity]] where someone spends a significant portion of their time.
#*{{RQ:Scott Heart of Midlothian}}
#*:I shall be on that '''lay''' nae mair
#*{{RQ:Dickens Bleak House|passage=Since our people have moved this boy on, and he's not to be found on his old '''lay'''}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1899| title=Blix. Moran of the Lady Letty. Essays on authorship |author=Frank Norris | page=155| passage="Well, you see, son," Kitcell had explained to Wilbur, "os-ten-siblee we are after shark-liver oil— and so we are; but also we are on any '''lay''' that turns up; ready for any game, from wrecking to barratry.}}
# The [[laying]] of [[eggs]].
#: {{ux|en|The hens are off the '''lay''' at present.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[layer]].
#* '''1677''', {{w|Hannah Woolley}}, ''The Compleat Servant-Maid'', London: T. Passinger, p.{{nbsp}}5,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A66839.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}}  lay in the bottom of an earthen pot some dried vine leaves, and so make a '''lay''' of Pears, and leaves till the pot is filled up, laying betwixt each '''lay''' some sliced Ginger {{...}}
#* '''1718''', {{w|Joseph Addison}}, ''Remarks on Several Parts of Italy, &c. in the Years 1701, 1702, 1703'', London: J. Tonson, “Sienna, Leghorne, Pisa,” p.{{nbsp}}300,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004846589.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the whole Body of the Church is chequer’d with different '''Lays''' of White and Black Marble {{...}}
#* '''1724''', Thomas Spooner, ''A Compendious Treatise of the Diseases of the Skin'', London, Chapter 2, p.{{nbsp}}20,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004800562.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} when we examine the Scarf-Skin with a Microscope, it appears to be made up of several '''Lays''' of exceeding small Scales, which cover one another more or less {{...}}
#* '''1766''', {{w|Thomas Amory (author)|Thomas Amory}}, ''The Life of John Buncle, Esq.'', London: J. Johnson and B. Davenport, Volume 2, Section 1, p.{{nbsp}}16, footnote{{nbsp}}1,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004885860.0001.002]</sup>
#*: {{...}} in one particular it exceeds the fen birds, for it has two tastes; it being brown and white meat: under a '''lay''' of brown is a '''lay''' of white meat {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[basis]] or [[ground]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1835| title=The Principles of Practical Perspective|author=Richard architetto Brown | page=122| passage=On this '''lay''' or ground we should also add the finishing colours.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|year=1899|work=The Federal Reporter |title=MacColl v. Crompton Loom works|author=|volume=95 |page=990|passage=In the first MacColl patent the pattern chain and engaging rod were carried on the swinging '''lay''' on which the needle bars are mounted.}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|casual sexual partner}} see also [[Thesaurus:casual sexual partner]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{col4|en
|by the lay
|inlay
|lay of the land
|off the lay
|overlay
}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|arrangement or relationship}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разположение|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ligging|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sijoittelu}}, {{t+|fi|asettelu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|direction a rope is twisted}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[kierteen]] [[suunta]]}}, {{t+|fi|kierre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|скру́тка}}, {{t+|ru|сви́вка}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|casual sexual partner}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|свалка|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[полово́й]] [[партнёр]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|en|enm|laie}}, {{m|enm|lawe}}, from {{inh|en|ang|lagu||sea, flood, water, ocean}}, from {{inh|en|gmw-pro|*lagu||water, sea}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*laguz||water, sea}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*lókus||water, body of water, lake}}. Cognate with {{cog|is|lögur||liquid, fluid, lake}}, {{cog|la|lacus||lake, hollow, hole}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[lake#Etymology_1|lake]].

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|en|enm|lay}}, from {{der|en|fro|lai}}, from {{der|en|la|laicus}}, from {{der|en|grc|λαϊκός}}. {{doublet|en|laic}}.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Not belonging to the [[clergy]], but associated with them.
#: ''They seemed more '''lay''' than clerical.''
#: ''a '''lay''' preacher; a '''lay''' brother''
# Non-professional; not being a member of an organized institution.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1960| author={{w|P. G. Wodehouse}}| title={{w|Jeeves in the Offing}}| section=chapter VII| passage=He hasn't caught a mouse since he was a slip of a kitten. Except when eating, he does nothing but sleep. [...] It's a sort of disease. There's a scientific name for it. Trau- something. Traumatic symplegia, that's it. This cat has traumatic symplegia. In other words, putting it in simple language adapted to the '''lay''' mind, where other cats are content to get their eight hours, Augustus wants his twenty-four.}}
# {{lb|en|card games}} Not [[trumps]].
#: ''a '''lay''' suit''
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Not educated or cultivated; ignorant.

=====Related terms=====
{{col4|en
|laity
|layman
|[[layperson]], [[lay person]]
|laywoman
}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|non-clergy}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|светски}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|laic}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|laický}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|læg}}, {{t|da|læg-}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|leken-}}, {{t+|nl|wereldlijk}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maallikko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laïque|m|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Laien-}}, {{t+|de|laikal}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|laikus}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|laico|m}}, {{t+|it|laica|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Middle English: {{t|enm|lewed}}, {{t|enm|lay}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|leg}}, {{t|nb|leg-}}, {{t+|nb|lek}}, {{t|nb|lek-}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|lek}}, {{t|nn|lek-}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|lǣwede}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|leigo}}, {{t+|pt|laico}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мирско́й}}, {{t+|ru|све́тский}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|laický}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|laico}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|lek-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|non-professional}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|непрофесионален}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|profà}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|laický}}, {{t+|cs|amatérský}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|læg}}, {{t|da|læg-}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|leken-}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maallikko}}
* German: {{t|de|Laien-}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|laikus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|profano|m}}, {{t+|it|profana|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|leg}}, {{t|nb|leg-}}, {{t+|nb|lek}}, {{t|nb|lek-}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|lek}}, {{t|nn|lek-}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|leigo}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|непрофессиона́льный}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|laický}}, {{t|sk|amatérsky}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lego}}, {{t+|es|profano}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|lek-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not being a member of an organized institution}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|leigo}}, {{t+|pt|laico}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|laico}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|laika}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
See {{m|en|lie}}.

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-simple past of|lie}} when pertaining to position.
#: ''The baby '''lay''' in its crib and slept silently.''
# {{lb|en|proscribed}} To be in a [[horizontal]] [[position]]; to [[lie]] (from confusion with [[lie]]).
#* '''1969''' July, Bob Dylan, “'''Lay''' Lady '''Lay'''”, ''Nashville Skyline'', Columbia:
#*: '''Lay''', lady, '''lay'''. / '''Lay''' across my big brass bed.
#* '''1974''', John Denver, “Annie’s Song”, ''Back Home Again'', RCA:
#*: Let me '''lay''' down beside you. / Let me always be with you.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|layabout}}

===Etymology 5===
From {{inh|en|enm|lay}}, from {{der|en|fro|lai||song, lyric, poem}}, from {{der|en|frk|*laih|t=play, melody, song}}, from {{der|en|gem-pro|*laikaz}}, {{m|gem-pro|*laikiz||jump, play, dance, hymn}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*leyg-||to jump, spring, play}}. Akin to {{cog|goh|leih||a play, skit, melody, song}}, {{cog|gmh|leich||piece of music, epic song played on a harp}}, {{cog|ang|lācan||to move quickly, fence, sing}}. See [[lake]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A ballad or sung poem; a short [[poem]] or narrative, usually intended to be sung.
#* '''1742''', [[w:Edward Young|Edward Young]], ''[[w:Night-Thoughts|The Complaint: or Night-Thoughts on Life, Death & Immortality]]'', [[s:The Complaint: or Night-Thoughts on Life, Death & Immortality/Night I|Night I]]
#*: I strive, with wakeful melody, to cheer
#*: The sullen gloom, sweet Philomel! like thee,
#*: And call the stars to listen: every star
#*: Is deaf to mine, enamour’d of thy '''lay'''.
#* '''1805''' ''The '''Lay''' of the Last Minstrel'', Sir Walter Scott.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sung poem}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|балада|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laulu}}
* Norwegian: {{t|nn|kvede|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лэ|f}}, {{t|ru|[[короткий|короткая]] [[песня|песенка]]|f}}, {{t|ru|[[короткий|короткая]] [[балла́да]]|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kväde}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 6===
From {{inh|en|enm|lay}}, {{m|enm|laye}}, {{m|enm|laiȝe}}, {{m|enm|leyȝe}}, from {{inh|en|ang|lǣh}}, {{m|enm|lēh}}, northern (Anglian) variants of {{cog|ang|lēah|t=lea}}. More at {{m|en|lea}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[meadow]]; a [[lea]].
#: {{rfquotek|en|Dryden}}

===Etymology 7===
From {{inh|en|enm|laige}}, {{m|enm|læȝe}}, variants of {{cog|enm|lawe|t=law}}. More at {{m|en|law}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[law]].
#* {{RQ:Spenser Faerie Queene|book=II|canto=X|stanza=42|passage=A woman worthy of immortall prayse, / Which for this Realme found many goodly '''layes'''}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} An [[obligation]]; a [[vow]].
#* {{RQ:Pliny Holland Historie of the World}}
#*: they bound themselues by a sacred '''lay''' and oth to fight it out to the last man

===Etymology 8===
{{calque|en|yi|לייגן|t=to put, lay}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lays|laying|laid}}

# {{lb|en|Judaism|transitive}} To [[don]] or [[put on]] ([[tefilla|tefillin]] {{gloss|[[phylactery|phylacteries]]}}).

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aly|Aly}}

{{cln|en|causative verbs|irregular verbs|terms with multiple etymologies|three-letter words}}

----

==Anguthimri==

===Verb===
{{head|awg|verb}}

# {{lb|awg|transitive|Mpakwithi}} to [[carry]]

===References===
* Terry Crowley, ''The Mpakwithi dialect of Anguthimri'' (1981), page 186

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{der|ht|fr|l'ail|t=the garlic}}

===Noun===
{{head|ht|noun}}

# [[garlic]]

----

==Lashi==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lsi|/laɪ̯/}}

===Postposition===
{{head|lsi|postposition}}

# [[through]]
# [[across]]

===Verb===
{{head|lsi|verb}}

# to [[pass]]

===References===
* {{R:lsi:Luk:2017}}

----

==Malagasy==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|mg|poz-pro|*layaʀ}}, from {{inh|mg|map-pro|*layaʀ}}.

===Noun===
{{head|mg|noun}}

# [[sail]] {{gloss|a piece of fabric attached to a boat}}
# [[tent]]

====References====
* {{R:MGW}}

----

==Mauritian Creole==

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|mfe|fr|ail}}

===Noun===
{{head|mfe|noun}}

# [[garlic]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|mfe|mg|ley}} (butterfly)

===Noun===
{{head|mfe|noun}}

# [[moth]]

===References===
* Baker, Philip & Hookoomsing, Vinesh Y. 1987. ''Dictionnaire de créole mauricien. Morisyen – English – Français''

----

==Middle English==

===Verb===
{{head|enm|verb form}}

# {{alt form|enm|leie}}: {{infl of|enm|lien||simple|past}}

----

==Seychellois Creole==

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|crs|fr|ail}}

===Noun===
{{head|crs|noun}}

# [[garlic]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{der|crs|mg|ley}} (butterfly)

===Noun===
{{head|crs|noun}}

# [[moth]]

===References===
* Danielle D’Offay et Guy Lionnet, ''Diksyonner Kreol - Franse / Dictionnaire Créole Seychellois - Français''

----

==Vietnamese==

===Pronunciation===
{{vi-pron}}

===Verb===
{{vi-verb}}

# to [[shake]]

====Derived terms====
{{vi-der|lung lay}}