{{wikipedia|dab=leader (disambiguation)}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|lead|er}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈliːdɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"li:d@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-leader.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|iːdə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Any person or thing that leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor.
# One who goes first.
#: ''Follow the '''leader'''.''
# One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander.
#: ''We elected her team '''leader'''.''
# One who leads a political party or group of elected party members, as [[w:Leader of the House of Commons|'''Leader''' of the House of Commons]] or [[w:Senate Majority Leader|Senate Majority '''Leader''']]
# A person or thing that leads in a certain field in terms of excellence, success, etc.
#: ''The company is the '''leader''' in home remodeling in the county.''
# {{music}} A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins; a [[conductor]].
# The dominant animal in a pack of animals, such as wolves or lions.
# An animal placed in advance of others, especially on a [[team]]; one of the forward pair of horses.
# {{botany}} A fast-growing terminal shoot of a woody plant.
# A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to the ground; a conductor.
# {{UK}} The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article; a lead story.
# {{context|fishing}} A section of [[line]] between the main fly line and the [[snell]], to which the snell of a [[fly]] [[hook]] is attached.
# A piece of blank tape or film at the beginning or end of a reel to allow the material to the threaded onto something, as a reel of film onto a projector.
# {{marketing}} A [[loss leader]] or a popular product sold at a normal price.
# {{printing}} A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face.
# {{printing|in|_|plural}} A row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.
# {{context|fishing}} A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc.
# {{context|mining}} A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one.
# {{nautical}} A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for leading ropes in their proper places.
# {{engineering}} The drive wheel in any kind of machinery.
{{rfc}}
{{webster}}

====Quotations====
{{seecites}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|one with authority to direct}} [[chief]], [[chieftain]], [[commander]]
* {{sense|engineering}} [[driver]], [[drive wheel]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''leader (noun)''}}
* [[group leader]]
* [[pack leader]]
* [[leaderboard]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[leaderette]]
* [[leaderless]]
* [[leadership]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one having authority}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[قائد]]}} (qaa'id) {{m}}, {{Arab|[[زعيم]]}} (za3iim) {{m}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|vođa|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|領導|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|领导|tr=lǐngdǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|領袖|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|领袖|tr=lǐngxiù|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|首領|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|首领|tr=shǒulǐng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leider|m}}, {{t-|nl|leidster|f}}, {{t+|nl|aanvoerder|m}}, {{t|nl|aanvoerster|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chef|m}}, {{t+|fr|leader|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Anführer|m}}, {{t|de|Anführerin|f}}, {{t+|de|Leiter|m}}, {{t|de|Hauptmann|m}}, {{t+|de|Kopf|m}}, {{t+|de|Führer|m}}, {{t|de|Führerin|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מנהיג|m}}, {{t|he|מנהיגה|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vezető}}; {{t+|hu|vezér}}, {{t+|hu|parancsnok}}; {{t|hu|pártvezér}}, {{t+|hu|vezér}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|chefo|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|capo|m}}, {{t+|it|duce|m}}
* Japanese: [[指導者]] (しどうしゃ, shidōsha), {{t+|ja|リーダー|tr=rīdā}}, {{t|ja|首領|tr=しゅりょう, shuryō}}
* Korean: [[지도자]] (jidoja)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[سه‌رۆک]]}}
* Latin: [[dux|dūx]] {{m}}, [[ductor]] {{m}}, [[ductrix]] {{f}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|naatʼáanii}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|leder|m}}, {{t-|no|fører|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|رهبر|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przywódca|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|líder|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|руководитель|m|tr=rukovodítel’}}, {{t+|ru|вождь|m|tr=vožd’}},  {{t+|ru|лидер|m|tr=líder}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|ceannard|m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|вођа|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: [[vođa]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|líder|m|f}}, {{t-|es|dirigente|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|kiongozi|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ledare|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pipe to conduct water from the roof}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|syöksytorvi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|principal article in a newspaper}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pääkirjoitus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|передовица|f|tr=peredovíca}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
<!--Common Leader titles-->
* [[president]]
* [[king]]/[[queen]]
* [[monarch]]
* [[emperor]]/[[empress]]
* [[baron]]/[[baroness]]
* [[duke]]/[[duchess]]
* [[governor]]
* [[mayor]]
* [[sergeant]]
* [[general]]
* [[conductor]]
* [[follower]] <!-- A spouse, so to speak. -->

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adeelr}}
* [[dealer#English|dealer]]
* [[redeal#English|redeal]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|fr}} [[leader#English|leader]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-leader.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# Leader.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adeelr}}
* [[dealer#French|dealer]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''leader''' {{m|f|inv}}

# [[#English|leader]] (chief; one in front)

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|adeelr}}
* [[lederà#Italian|lederà]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[ang:leader]]
[[zh-min-nan:leader]]
[[de:leader]]
[[et:leader]]
[[el:leader]]
[[fa:leader]]
[[fr:leader]]
[[ko:leader]]
[[io:leader]]
[[id:leader]]
[[it:leader]]
[[kn:leader]]
[[kk:leader]]
[[sw:leader]]
[[ku:leader]]
[[lo:leader]]
[[hu:leader]]
[[ml:leader]]
[[ja:leader]]
[[no:leader]]
[[pl:leader]]
[[pt:leader]]
[[ru:leader]]
[[simple:leader]]
[[fi:leader]]
[[sv:leader]]
[[ta:leader]]
[[te:leader]]
[[tr:leader]]
[[vi:leader]]
[[zh:leader]]