==English==
{{elements|Pb|thallium|Tl|bismuth|Bi}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|leed|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|lēad||lead}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*laudą||lead}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*lAudh-||lead}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|leid|lang=sco}}, {{term|lede||lead|lang=sco}}, {{etyl|frr|-}} {{term|lud|lang=frr}}, {{term|luad||lead|lang=frr}}, {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|lead||lead|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|lood||lead|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Lot||solder, plummet, sounding line|lang=de}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|lod||lead|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|lóð||a plumb, weight|lang=is}}, {{etyl|ga|-}} {{term|luaidhe||lead|lang=ga}}.

Alternative etymology suggests the possibility that Proto-Germanic *''laudan'' may derive from {{etyl|cel-pro|en}} {{m|cel-pro|*loudhom}}, from an assumed Proto-Italo-Celtic *''ploudhom'', from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*plou(d)-||to flow}}. If so, then cognate with {{etyl|la|-}} {{term|plumbum||lead|lang=la}}. More at {{l|en|flow}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{enPR|lĕd}}, {{IPA|/lɛd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-lead-metal.oga|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|led}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} A heavy, pliable, inelastic metal element, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished; both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic number 82, symbol Pb (from Latin ''[[plumbum]]'').
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} A plummet or mass of lead attached to a line, used in [[sounding]] depth at sea or {{context|dated|lang=en}} to estimate velocity in [[knots]].
# A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing.
# {{context|uncountable|typography|lang=en}} Vertical space in advance of a row or between rows of text. Also known as ''[[leading]]''.
#: ''This copy has too much lead; I prefer less space between the lines.''
# Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs.
# {{context|plural '''leads'''|lang=en}} A [[roof]] [[cover]]ed with lead [[sheet]]s or [[terne]] [[plate]]s.
#:* I would have the tower two stories, and goodly leads upon the top. — [[w:Francis Bacon|Bacon]]
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} A thin [[cylinder]] of black lead or [[plumbago]] ([[graphite]]) used in [[pencil]]s.
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[bullet|Bullets]]; [[ammunition]].
#: ''They pumped him full of '''lead'''.''

=====Derived terms=====
<!--Terms derived from the NOUN as defined above-->
{{rel-top3|terms derived from the noun "lead"}}
* [[arm the lead]]
* [[acetate of lead]]
* [[black lead]]
* [[blue lead]]
* [[cast the lead]], [[heave the lead]]
* [[chromate of lead]]
* [[coasting lead]]
* [[cold lead]]
* [[deep-sea lead]]
* [[eka-lead]]
* [[go down like a lead balloon]]
* [[hand lead]]
* [[lap in lead]]
* [[lay in lead]]
* [[lead accumulator]]
* [[lead acetate]]
* [[lead-acid battery]]
* [[lead-arming]]
* [[lead arsenate]]
* [[lead-ash]], [[lead-ashes]]
* [[lead-back]]
* [[lead balloon]]
* [[lead-bath]]
* [[lead-blue]]
* [[lead bronze]]
* [[lead-brown]]
* [[lead bullion]]
* [[lead-burn]]
* [[lead burning]]
* [[lead carbonate]]
* [[lead cell]]
* [[lead chamber]]
* [[lead chloride]]
* [[lead colic]]
* [[lead color]], [[lead colour]]
* [[lead-colored]], [[lead-coloured]]
* [[lead-comb]]
* [[lead crystal]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[lead dichloride]]
* [[lead dinitrate]]
* [[lead dioxide]]
* [[lead distemper]]
* [[lead-eater]]
* [[leaded]]
* [[lead encephalopathy]]
* [[lead-flat]]
* [[lead-foot]]
* [[lead-free]]
* [[lead glance]]
* [[lead glass]]
* [[lead-glaze]]
* [[lead-gray]], [[lead-grey]]
* [[lead hydrogen arsenate]]
* [[lead in one's pencil]]
* [[lead iodide]]
* [[lead-light]]
* [[lead-like]]
* [[lead line]]
* [[lead-man]]
* [[lead-marcasite]]
* [[lead mill]]
* [[lead-nail]]
* [[lead nitrate]]
* [[lead ocher]], [[lead ochre]]
* [[lead oxide]]
* [[lead paint]]
* [[lead palsy]]
* [[lead-paper]]
* [[lead-papered]]
* [[lead paralysis]]
* [[lead pencil]]
* [[lead plant]]
* [[lead-plaster]]
* [[lead peroxide]]
* [[lead-pot]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[lead-poisoning]]
* [[lead ratio]]
* [[lead-reeve]]
* [[lead selenide]]
* [[lead-sinker]]
* [[leadsman]]
* [[lead-soap]]
* [[lead-spar]]
* [[lead-sugar]]
* [[lead sulfide]], [[lead sulphide]]
* [[lead-swing]]
* [[lead-swinger]]
* [[lead-swinging]]
* [[lead tetraethyl]]
* [[lead tetroxide]]
* [[lead-tin]]
* [[lead-tree]]
* [[lead vanadate]]
* [[lead-vitriol]]
* [[lead-wash]]
* [[lead-water]]
* [[lead wool]]
* [[lead-work]]
* [[lead-works]]
* [[lead-wort]]
* [[mock lead]]
* [[pencil lead]]
* [[red lead]]
* [[red lead ore]]
* [[sugar of lead]]
* [[swing the lead]]
* [[telluride of lead]]
* [[tetraethyl lead]]
* [[thorium lead]]
* [[throw the lead]]
* [[unleaded]]
* [[uranium lead]]
* [[uranium-lead dating]]
* [[white lead]]
{{rel-bottom}}

<!--
* [[black lead]], {{qualifier|colloquial}}: graphite or plumbago — so called from its leadlike appearance and streak.
* [[coasting lead]], a sounding lead intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead
* [[deep-sea lead]], the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water exceeding a hundred [[fathom]]s in depth. — [[Hamersley, Naval Encyclopaedia]]
* [[hand lead]]: a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.
* [[Krems lead]], or '''Kremnitz lead''', [so called from Krems or Kremnitz, in Austria]: a pure variety of white lead, formed into tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.
* [[lead arming]]: tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See '''To arm the lead''' (below).
* [[lead colic]]: See under [[Colic]]
* [[lead colour]]: a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead
* [[lead glance]], ''(Mineralogy):'' Same as Galena
* [[lead line]]
*:: (a) ''(Medicine):'' A dark line along the gums produced by a deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning.
*:: (b) ''(Nautical):'' A sounding line
* [[lead mill]]: a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries
* [[lead ocher]], ''(Mineralogy):'' a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same as [[Massicot]]
* [[lead pencil]], a pencil of which the marking material is graphite (black lead)
* [[lead plant]], ''(Botany):'' a low, leguminous plant, ''Amorpha canescens'', found in the northwestern United States, where its presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. — [[w:|Asa Gray|Asa Gray]]
* [[lead tree]]:
*:: (a) ''(Botany):'' A West Indian name for the tropical leguminous tree, ''Leucæna glauca''; — probably so called from the glaucous color of the foliage.
*:: (b) ''(Chemistry):'' Lead crystallized in arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending a strip of zinc in lead acetate
* [[mock lead]]: a miner’s term for [[blende]]
* [[red lead]]: a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of flint glass
* [[red lead ore]], ''(Mineralogy):'' [[crocoite]]
* [[sugar of lead]], acetate of lead
* To [[arm the lead]], to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the substances adhering. — [[Hamersley, Naval Encyclopaedia]]
* To cast, or heave, the lead: to cast the sounding lead for ascertaining the depth of water; or to cast the lead so that as it goes aft [[by the board]] the knots in the line can be counted to estimate the vessel's velocity.
* [[white lead]], hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white, amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint.
-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|chemical element}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|lood}}
* Alabama: {{t|akz|ɬaki}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|plumb}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|رصاص|m|tr=raṣāṣ}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կապար}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|plomu|m}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ҡурғаш}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|berun}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|цвінец|m|tr=tsvinéts}}
* Berber:
*: Tashelhit: {{t|shi|aldun|m}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|plom|m}}, {{t|br|plomoù|p}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|олово|n}}
* Campidanese Sardinian: {{t|sc|prumu|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|plom|m}}
* Central Melanau: {{t|mel|timah bilem}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鉛|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|铅|tr=qiān|sc=Hani}}
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|鉛|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|plom}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|olovo}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|bly}}
* Dhivehi: {{t|dv|މަގުދިލުން|sc=Thaa}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lood|n}}, {{t+|nl|blij|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|plumbo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|plii}}, {{t|et|seatina}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|blýggj}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyijy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plomb|m}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|plomp|m}}, {{t|fur|plomb|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|chumbo|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ტყვია|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Blei|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μόλυβδος|m}}
* Greenlandic: {{t+|kl|aqerloq}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|עופרת|tr=‘oferet}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|सीसा|tr=sīsā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ólom}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|blý}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|timbel}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|luaidhe}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|piombo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|鉛|tr=[[なまり]], namari}}
* Kashubian: {{t|csb|òłów|m}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|қорғасын|sc=Cyrl}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|납|sc=Hang}}, {{t+|ko|연|sc=Hang}} ({{t+|ko|鉛|sc=Hani}})
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|قورقوشم|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|plumbum}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|svins}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|švinas|m}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|bläi}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|олово|n}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|plumbum}}, {{t|ms|timah hitam}}, {{t|ms|timbel}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|കറുത്തീയം|sc=Mlym}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ċomb}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|leoaie}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|matā}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|хар|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|dilyį́hí}}
* Neapolitan: {{t|nap|cchiummo|n}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|bly}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|سرب|tr=sorb}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ołów|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chumbo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|plumb|n}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|plum|m}}, {{t|rm|plùn|m}}, {{t|rm|plùm|m}}, {{t|rm|plom|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|свинец|m|tr=svinéc}}, {{t|ru|плюмбум|m|tr=pljúmbum}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|peumu}}, {{t|sc|piumbu}}, {{t|sc|piumu}}, {{t|sc|plumbu}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|leid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|luaidhe}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|олово|n|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|olovo|n}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|olovo}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|svinec|m}}
* Sicilian: {{t|scn|chiummu|m}}, {{t|scn|ghiummu|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|plomo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bly}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|surb}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|సీసము|sc=Telu}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ตะกั้ว|tr=tàgûa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kurşun}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|свинець|m|tr=svynéts’}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|кўогъшсин|tr=kŭog”şsin|sc=Cyrl}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|piònbo|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|chì}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|plumbin}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|plwm}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|lead|n}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|בלײַ|tr=blay|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|plummet to measure depth of water}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dieplood}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|sondilo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luoti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sonde|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Senkblei|n}}, {{t+|de|Lot|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|βυθομετρητής|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|scandaglio|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|prumo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|грузило|n|tr=gruzílo}}, {{t|ru|свинцовый отвес|m|tr=svintsóvyj otvés}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|sonda|f}}, {{t+|es|escandallo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lod|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|separator line in print}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|interlinie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riviväli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шпон|m}}, {{t+|ru|шпона|tr=špóna|f}}, {{t|ru|шпоны|p|tr=špóny}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|regleta|f}}, {{t|es|interlínea|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|typography: vertical space}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|riviväli}}
* German: {{t+|de|Durchschuss|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|интерлиньяж|tr=interlinjáž|m}}, {{t|ru|межстрочное расстояние|tr=mežstróčnoje rasstojánije|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sheets or plates covering a roof}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lyijylevy}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μολυβδοταινία|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|lyijykatto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μολυβδοσκεπή|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|refill for writing tool}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stift}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyijy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mine|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mine|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mina|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|芯|tr=shin|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|പെന്‍സില്‍ മുന|sc=Mlym}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mina|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|графит|m|tr=grafít}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mina|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|stift|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uç}}, {{t|tr|kalem ucu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bullets}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ҡурғаш}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyijy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|plomb|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μολύβι|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{qualifier|slang}} {{t+|pl|ołów|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chumbo|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|balas|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bly|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle.
# {{context|transitive|printing|lang=en}} To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter.

=====Usage notes=====
Note carefully these two senses are verbs derived from the noun referring to the metallic element, and are unrelated to the [[heteronym]] defined below under [[#Etymology 2]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to cover, fill, or affect with lead}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|verloden}}
* Finnish: [[täyttää]] [[lyijy]]llä, [[peittää]] [[lyijy]]llä, [[täyttyä]] [[lyijy]]yn, [[peittyä]] [[lyijy]]yn
* German: {{t|de|verbleien}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|επιμολυβδώνω}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chumbar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|свинцевать|tr=svintsevát’}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|printing: place leads between the lines of}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|odsadit}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|interliniëren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Esperanto {{t-check|eo|plumbi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
{{rel-top4|terms related to the element lead}}
* [[anglesite]]
* [[aplomb]]
* [[cerussite]]
* [[galena]]
* [[litharge]]
* [[plumb]]
* [[plumb-]], [[plumbo-]]
* [[plumbagin]]
* [[plumbago]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[plumballophane]]
* [[plumbane]]
* [[plumbary]]
* [[plumbate]]
* [[plumbator]]
* ''[[plumb dulcis]]''
* [[plumbean]]
* [[plumbeous]]
* [[plumber]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[plumbian]]
* [[plumbic]]
* [[plumbicon]]
* [[plumbiferous]]
* [[plumbine]]
* [[plumbing]]
* [[plumbism]]
* [[plumbisolvency]]
* [[plumbisolvent]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[plumbite]]
* [[plumb-joint]]
* [[plumbless]]
* [[plumbly]]
* [[plumbous]]
* [[plumby]]
* [[plummet]]
* [[TEL]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{pedialite}}

===Etymology 2===
{{wikipedia|Lead off}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|leden|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|lǣdan||sc=Latinx|to lead|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*laidijaną||to cause one to go, lead}}, causative of {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*līþaną||to go}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*leit-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*leith-||to leave, die}}. Cognate with {{etyl|fy|-}} {{term|liede||to lead|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|leiden||to lead|lang=nl}}, German {{term|leiten||to lead|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|lede||to lead|lang=da}}, Swedish {{term|leda||to lead|lang=sv}}. Related to {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|līþan||to go, travel}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{enPR|lēd}}, {{IPA|/liːd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-lead-guide.oga|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|leed|lede}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|leads|leading|led}}

#{{label|en|heading|transitive}} ''To [[guide#Verb|guide]] or [[conduct#Verb|conduct]].''
##To [[guide]] or [[conduct]] with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection.
##:{{ux|en|a father '''leads''' a child;&emsp; a jockey '''leads''' a horse with a halter;&emsp; a dog '''leads''' a blind man}}
##*{{w|John Wycliffe}} on ''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/Matthew#Chapter_15|Matthew 15:14]]''
##*:If a blind man '''lead''' a blind man, both fall down in the ditch.
##*''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/Luke#Chapter_4|Luke 4:29]]''
##*:They thrust him out of the city, and '''led''' him unto the brow of the hill.
##*{{w|John Milton}} (1608-1674)
##*:In thy right hand '''lead''' with thee&nbsp;/ The mountain nymph, sweet Liberty.
##To [[guide]] or conduct in a certain [[course]], or to a certain place or end, by making the way known; to show the way, especially by going with or going in advance of, to lead a pupil; to [[guide]] somebody somewhere or to [[bring]] somebody somewhere by means of.[[instruction]]s. Hence, figuratively: To [[direct]]; to [[counsel]]; to [[instruct]]; as, to lead a traveler.
##*''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/Exodus#Chapter_13|Exodus 13:21]]''
##*:The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to '''lead''' them the way.
##*''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/Psalms#Psalm_23|Psalms 23:2]]''
##*:He '''leadeth''' me beside the still waters.
##*{{w|John Milton}} (1608-1674)
##*:This thought might '''lead''' me through the world’s vain mask. Content, though blind, had I no better guide.
##*{{quote-book|year=1913|author={{w|Joseph C. Lincoln}}|chapter=1
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5535161W Mr. Pratt's Patients]|chapter=1
|passage=I stumbled along through the young pines and huckleberry bushes. Pretty soon I struck into a sort of path that, I cal'lated, might '''lead''' to the road I was hunting for. It twisted and turned, and, the first thing I knew, made a sudden bend around a bunch of bayberry scrub and opened out into a big clear space like a lawn.}}
##To conduct or [[direct]] with [[authority]]; to have direction or charge of; as, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a political party; to [[command]], especially a [[military]] or [[business]] unit.
##*{{w|Robert South}} (1634–1716)
##*:Christ took not upon him flesh and blood that he might conquer and rule nations, '''lead''' armies, or possess places.
##To guide or conduct oneself in, through, or along (a certain course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to [[follow]] the [[path]] or [[course]] of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or follow in (a certain course).
##:{{ux|en|The evidence '''leads''' me to believe he is guilty.}}
##*''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/1_Timothy#Chapter_2|1 Timothy 2:2]]''
##*:That we may '''lead''' a quiet and peaceable life.
##*'''1849''', {{w|Alfred Tennyson}}, {{w|In Memoriam A.H.H}}, {{w|In Memoriam A.H.H#XXXIII|XXXIII}}
##*:Nor thou with shadow'd hint confuse / A life that '''leads''' melodious days.
##*'''1849-50''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''{{w|David Copperfield}}, Chapter 61
##*:You remember{{...}}the life he used to '''lead''' his wife and daughter.
#{{label|en|intransitive}} To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing, influencing, [[directing]] with authority, etc.; to have [[precedence]] or preeminence; to be first or [[chief]]; — used in most of the senses of the transitive verb.
#{{label|en|heading}} ''To begin, to be ahead.''
##{{label|en|transitive}} To go or to be [[in advance]] of; to [[precede]]; hence, to be foremost or chief among.
##:{{ux|en|the big sloop '''led''' the fleet of yachts;&emsp; the Guards '''led''' the attack;&emsp; Demosthenes '''leads''' the orators of all ages}}
##*'''1600''', {{w|Edward Fairfax}}, The ''{{w|Jerusalem Delivered}}'' of {{w|Torquato Tasso|Tasso}}
##*:As Hesperus, that '''leads''' the sun his way.
##*{{w|Leigh Hunt}} (1784-1859)
##*:And lo! Ben Adhem's name '''led''' all the rest.
##*{{quote-book|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}
|title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=4
|passage=“Well,” I answered, at first with uncertainty, then with inspiration, “he would do splendidly to '''lead''' your cotillon, if you think of having one.” &para; “So you do not dance, Mr. Crocker?” &para; I was somewhat set back by her perspicuity.}}
##{{label|en|intransitive}} To lead off or out, to go first; to [[begin]].
##{{label|en|intransitive}} To be more advanced in [[technology]] or [[business]] than others.
##{{label|en|heading|sport}}
###{{label|en|transitive|cards|dominoes}} To [[begin]] a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps.
###:{{ux|en|He '''led''' the ace of spades.}}
###{{label|en|intransitive}} To be [[ahead]] of others, e.g., in a [[race]].
###{{label|en|intransitive}} To have the highest interim [[score]] in a [[game]].
###{{label|en|baseball}} To step off [[base]] and move towards the next base.
###:{{ux|en|The batter always '''leads''' off base.}}
###{{label|en|shooting}} To aim in front of a moving [[target]], in order that the [[shot]] may hit the target as it passes.
#{{label|en|transitive}} To draw or direct by [[influence]], whether good or bad; to prevail on; to [[induce]]; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a righteous cause.
#*'''1649''', King {{w|Charles I of England}}, ''{{w|Eikon Basilike}}''
#*:He was driven by the necessities of the times, more than '''led''' by his own disposition, to any rigor of actions.
#*''[[s:Bible_%28King_James%29/2_Timothy#Chapter_3|2 Timothy 3:6]]''.
#*:Silly women, laden with sins, '''led''' away by divers lusts.
#*{{quote-magazine|date=2013-06-28|author={{w|Joris Luyendijk}}
|volume=189|issue=3|page=21|magazine={{w|The Guardian Weekly}}
|title=[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/joris-luyendijk-banking-blog/2013/jun/19/banking-britain-beyond-control Our banks are out of control]
|passage=Seeing the British establishment struggle with the financial sector is like watching an alcoholic&nbsp;[&hellip;].&nbsp; Until 2008 there was denial over what finance had become. When a series of bank failures made this impossible, there was widespread anger, '''leading''' to the public humiliation of symbolic figures.}}
#{{label|en|intransitive}} To tend or reach in a certain [[direction]], or to a certain place.
#:{{ux|en|the path '''leads''' to the mill;&emsp; gambling '''leads''' to other vices}}
#*'''ca. 1590''', {{w|William Shakespeare|Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:The Two Gentlemen of Verona|Two Gentlemen of Verona]]'', [[s:The_Two_Gentlemen_of_Verona#SCENE_2._The_same._A_room_in_the_DUKE.27S_palace.|V-ii]]
#*:The mountain-foot that '''leads''' towards Mantua.
#*{{quote-magazine|date=2013-08-10|volume=408|issue=8848|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21583277-worlds-biggest-polluter-going-green-it-needs-speed-up-transition-can-china Can China clean up fast enough?]
|passage=All this has '''led''' to an explosion of protest across China, including among a middle class that has discovered nimbyism. That worries the government, which fears that environmental activism could become the foundation for more general political opposition. It is therefore dealing with pollution in two ways—suppression and mitigation.}}
#To [[produce]].
#:{{ux|en|The shock '''led''' to a change in his behaviour.}}
#*{{quote-magazine|date=2013-08-03|volume=408|issue=8847|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21582516-worlds-thirst-oil-could-be-nearing-peak-bad-news-producers-excellent Yesterday’s fuel]
|passage=The dawn of the oil age was fairly recent. Although the stuff was used to waterproof boats in the Middle East 6,000 years ago, extracting it in earnest began only in 1859 after an oil strike in Pennsylvania.{{...}}It was used to make kerosene, the main fuel for artificial lighting after overfishing '''led''' to a shortage of whale blubber. Other liquids produced in the refining process, too unstable or smoky for lamplight, were burned or dumped.}}
#{{misspelling of|led|lang=en}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from the verb "to lead"}}
* [[belead]]
* [[inlead]]
* [[lead astray]]
* [[lead captive]]
* [[leader]]
* [[leading]] {{pos_a}}
* [[lead the way]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[mislead]]
* [[offlead]]
* [[onlead]]
* [[outlead]]
* [[overlead]]
* [[take the lead]]
* [[underlead]]
{{rel-bottom}}
<!--
* To [[lead astray]], to guide in a wrong way, or into error; to seduce from truth or rectitude
* To [[lead captive]], to carry or bring into captivity
* To [[lead the way]], to show the way by going in front; to act as guide. — [[w:Oliver Goldsmith|Oliver Goldsmith]]
-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|قاد|tr=qāda}}
* Belarusian: {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t|be|вадзі́ць|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|павадзі́ць|pf|sc=Cyrl}}; {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t|be|весці́|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|павесці́|pf|sc=Cyrl}}; {{t|be|право́дзіць||impf|sc=Cyrl}} {{t|be|праве́сці|pf|sc=Cyrl}} 
* Breton: {{t+|br|ren}}, {{t+|br|kas}}, {{t+|br|bleinañ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|водя|tr=vódja}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|引導|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|引导|tr=yǐndǎo|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vést}}, {{t|cs|vodit}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|menur}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|konduki}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|johdattaa}}, {{t+|fi|opastaa}}, {{t+|fi|ohjata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|guider}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|menâ}}, {{t|fur|condusi}}
* German: {{t+|de|führen}}, {{t+|de|leiten}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἄγω|sc=polytonic}}, {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vezet}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|duktar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|guidare}}, {{t+|it|condurre}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|導く|tr=[[みちびく]], michibiku}}
* Ladin: {{t|lld|condujer}}, {{t|lld|mener}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|vest}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|vesti}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|води|tr=vódi|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|നയിയ്ക്കുക|sc=Mlym}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|вєсти|sc=Cyrs}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wodzić}}, {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}, {{t|pl|poprowadzić}}, {{t|pl|zaprowadzić}}, {{t+|pl|doprowadzać}}, {{t+|pl|przeprowadzać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guiar}}, {{t+|pt|conduzir}}
* Romanian: a {{t+|ro|duce}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|водить|impf|tr=vodítʹ}}, {{t+|ru|вести|impf|tr=vestí}}, {{t+|ru|приводить|impf|tr=privodítʹ|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|привести|pf|tr=privestí|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|водити}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|voditi}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|vodiť}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Sorbian:
*: Upper Sorbian: {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t|hsb|wodźić|impf}}, {{t|hsb|powodźić|pf}}; {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t|hsb|wjesć|impf}}, {{t|hsb|zawjesć|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|guiar}}, {{t+|es|llevar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}, {{t+|sv|föra}}
* Ukrainian: {{qualifier|abstract}} {{t|uk|води́ти|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|поводи́ти|pf|sc=Cyrl}}; {{qualifier|concrete}} {{t|uk|вести́|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|повести́|pf|sc=Cyrl}}; {{t|uk|проводити|tr=provódyty|sc=Cyrl}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|liede}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|guide or conduct in a certain course}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|dirigir}}, {{t+|ca|conduir}}, {{t+|ca|portar}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|menur}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|konduki}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|johdattaa}}, {{t+|fi|opastaa}}, {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}, {{t+|fr|conduire}}, {{t+|fr|guider}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|menâ}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἄγω|sc=polytonic}}, {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|duktar}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|condurre}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|案内する|tr=[[あんないする]], annai suru}}, {{t|ja|率いる|tr=[[ひきいる]], hikiiru}}, {{t|ja|導く|tr=[[みちびく]], michibiku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
* Ladin: {{t|lld|mener}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kierować}}, {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}, {{t|pl|poprowadzić}}, {{t|pl|zaprowadzić}}, {{t+|pl|doprowadzać}}, {{t+|pl|przeprowadzać}}, {{t+|pl|wskazywać}}, {{t+|pl|pokazywać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guiar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|водить|tr=vodít’}}, {{t+|ru|вести|tr=vestí}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conducir}}, {{t+|es|llevar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|liede}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|conduct or direct with authority}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|estri}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}, {{t+|fi|vetää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|diriger}}, {{t+|fr|commander}}
* German: {{t+|de|leiten}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}, {{t|he|הנהיג|tr=hinhíg}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|condurre}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|率いる|tr=[[ひきいる]], hikiiru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|നയിയ്ക്കുക|sc=Mlym}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kierować}}, {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}, {{t+|pl|dowodzić}}, {{t+|pl|przewodzić}}, {{t|pl|poprowadzić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|liderar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|conduce}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|руководить|tr=rukovodít’}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|liede}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|go or be in advance of; precede}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|encapçalar}}, {{t|ca|anar al capdavant}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|antaŭiri}} {{qualifier|go}}, {{t|eo|antaŭi}} {{qualifier|be}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}, {{t|he|הנהיג|tr=hinhíg}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|elöl megy}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
* Lojban: {{t+|jbo|lidne}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}, {{t+|pl|przewodzić}}, {{t+|pl|poprzedzać}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|возглавлять|tr=vozglavlját’}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|liderar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|draw or direct by influence}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|logi}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|johdattaa}}, {{t+|fi|ajaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|amener}} à, {{t+|fr|pousser}} à, {{t+|fr|conduire}} à
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}, {{t|he|הנהיג|tr=hinhíg}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|convincere}}, {{t|it|influenzare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|引く|tr=[[ひく]], hiku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|склонять|tr=sklonját’}}, {{t+|ru|приводить|tr=privodít’}}, {{t+|ru|привести|tr=privestí}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|guide or conduct oneself}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|sekvi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viedä}}, {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}, {{t|he|הנהיג|tr=hinhíg}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comportarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|導く|tr=[[みちびく]], michibiku}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić się}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|водиться|tr=vodít’s’a}}, {{t+|ru|вестись|tr=vestís’}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|llevar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|begin a game of cards or dominoes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitkomen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|komenci}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aloittaa}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
* Italian: {{t|it|essere di mano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wychodzić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|sair}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ходить}} [[с#Russian|с]] (xodít’ s) +''genitive pl'', {{t+|ru|пойти}} [[с#Russian|с]] (pojtí s) +''genitive pl''
* Spanish: {{t+|es|partir}}, {{t+|es|comenzar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: to guide or conduct}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiden}}, {{t+|nl|begeleiden}}, {{t+|nl|meevoeren}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|konduki}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}, {{t|he|הנהיג|tr=hinhíg}}
* Italian: {{t|it|comportarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|案内する|tr=[[あんない]]する, annai-suru}}, {{t|ja|率いる|tr=[[ひきいる]], hikiiru}}, {{t|ja|導く|tr=[[みちびく]], michibiku}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|안내하다|sc=Hang}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|проводить|tr=provodít’}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: be ahead of others}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanvoeren}}, {{t+|nl|vooroplopen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|antaŭi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|führen}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἡγέομαι|sc=polytonic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|andare avanti}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}, {{t+|pl|przewodzić}}, {{t+|pl|poprzedzać}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лидировать|tr=lidírovat’}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|liderar}}, {{t|es|ir a la cabeza}}, {{t|es|ir en cabeza}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: have the highest interim score in a game}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanvoeren}}, {{t+|nl|vooroplopen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
* Italian: {{t|it|essere in testa}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|リード|alt=リードする|tr=rīdo-suru}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вести|tr=vestí}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|voditi}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|liderar}}, {{t|es|ir a la cabeza}}, {{t|es|ir en cabeza}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: be more advanced}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voorlopen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}, [[olla]] [[edellä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הוביל|tr=hovíl}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|przodować}}, {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|опережать}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|liderar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|leda}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: tend or reach in a certain direction}}
* Dutch: [[leiden]] naar
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johtaa}}, {{t+|fi|viedä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mener}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|達する|tr=たっする, tassuru}}, {{t+|ja|到達|alt=到達する|tr=とうたつする, tōtatsu-suru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|m'ner}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|проводить|tr=provodít’}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intransitive: to go first}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|komenciĝi}}
* German: {{t|de|anführen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|התחיל|tr=hitkhíl}}
* Italian: {{t|it|andare avanti}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzić}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|liderar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|начинать|tr=načinát’}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|ir a la cabeza}}, {{t|es|ir en cabeza}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|ongoza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|transitive: to step off base}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kärkkyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
[[transitive]]:
* Latin: {{t-check|la|ducere}}
{{trans-mid}}
[[intransitive]]:
* Breton: {{t-check|br|bezañ e penn}}, {{t-check|br|bezañ o charreat}}
* Catalan: {{t-check|ca|guiar}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[poentantaŭi]] or [[antaŭi poente]] (10), [[antaŭeniriĝi]] (11)
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|pimpin}}, {{t-check|id|bimbing}}, {{t-check|id|tffuntun}}
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|a conduce}}, {{t-check|ro|a îndruma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|lead (news)}}
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction, [[course]]; as, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another.
#:* At the time I speak of, and having a momentary '''lead''', . . . I am sure I did my country important service. — {{w|Edmund Burke}}
# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} Precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat’s length, or of half a second; the state of being ahead in a race; the highest score in a game in an incomplete game.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 28
|author=Kevin Darlin
|title=West Brom 1 - 3 Blackburn
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9308862.stm
|page=
|passage=Blackburn then regained the '''lead''' with a simplest of set-piece goals}}
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} a metallic wire for electrical devices and equipments
# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} When a runner steps away from a base while waiting for the pitch to be thrown
#: ''The runner took his '''lead''' from first.''
# {{context|uncountable|card games|dominoes|lang=en}} The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.
# {{context|countable|lang=en}} A [[channel]] of [[open]] [[water]] in an [[ice]] [[field]].
# {{context|countable|mining|lang=en}} A [[lode]].
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} The course of a rope from end to end.
# A rope, leather strap, or similar device with which to lead an animal; a [[leash]]
# In a steam engine, The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke.
#* '''Usage note''': When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the admission of steam. ''Inside lead'' refers to the release or exhaust.
# charging lead
# {{context|civil engineering|lang=en}} The distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.
# {{context|horology|lang=en}} The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet. — Claudias Saunier
# Hypothesis that has not been pursued
#: ''The investigation stalled when all '''leads''' turned out to be dead ends.''
# Information obtained by a detective or police officer that allows him or her to discover further details about a crime or incident.
# {{context|marketing|lang=en}} Potential opportunity for a sale or transaction, a potential customer.
#: ''Joe is a great addition to our sales team, he has numerous '''leads''' in the paper industry.''
# Information obtained by a news reporter about an issue or subject that allows him or her to discover more details.
# {{context|curling|lang=en}} The player who throws the first two rocks for a team.
# {{context|newspapers|lang=en}} A [[teaser]]; a [[lead in]]; the start of a newspaper column, telling who, what, when, where, why and how. (Sometimes spelled as [[lede]] for this usage to avoid ambiguity.)
# An important news story that appears on the front page of a newspaper or at the beginning of a news broadcast
# {{context|engineering|lang=en}} The axial distance a screw thread travels in one revolution. It is equal to the [[pitch]] times the number of [[starts]].
# {{context|music|lang=en}} In a [[barbershop quartet]], the person who sings the [[melody]], usually the second [[tenor]]

=====Usage notes=====
Note that these noun (attributive) uses are all derived from the verb, '''not''' the chemical element in [[#Etymology 1]].

=====Derived terms=====
<!--Terms derived from the NOUN in the senses above-->
{{rel-top|terms derived from the noun "lead"}}
* [[bury the lead]]
* [[lead angle]]
* [[lead in]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[lead role]]
* [[lead screw]]
* [[take the lead]]
{{rel-bottom}}
<!--
* [[lead angle]], ''(Steam Engine):'' the angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam
* [[lead screw]], ''(Machines):'' the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which gives the feed motion to the carriage.
-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|act of leading or conducting}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiding|f}}, {{t+|nl|begeleiding|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johto}}, {{t+|fi|johtaminen}}
* German: {{t+|de|Führung|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|guida|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzenie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conduzir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ledning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|precedence; advance position}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leiding|f}}, {{t+|nl|voorsprong|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|johto}}, {{t+|fi|johtoasema}}, {{t|fi|kärkipaikka}}, {{t+|fi|kärki}}
* German: {{t+|de|Führung|f}}, {{t+|de|Leitung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|προβάδισμα|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prowadzenie|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|liderança|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лидерство|n|tr=líderstvo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ventaja|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ledning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in cards and dominoes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitkomst|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajo}}, {{t+|fi|lähtö}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wyjście|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ход|m|tr=khod}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|förhand|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|channel of open water in an ice field}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vaargeul}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väylä}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mining: lode}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lood|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ader|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|жила|f|tr=žíla}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: course of a rope from end to end}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lengte|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pituus}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|leash}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lijn}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|talutushihna}}, {{t|fi|hihna}}, {{t+|fi|lieka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laisse|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Leine|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|smycz|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|привязь|tr=prívjaz’|f}}; {{t+|ru|повод|tr=póvod|m}}; {{t+|ru|поводок|tr=povodók|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|iall|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in a steam engine}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|charging lead}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|varausjohto}}, {{t|fi|latausjohto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|civil engineering: distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|horology: action of a tooth}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|information obtained by a detective or police officer}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanwijzing|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|johtolanka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|piste|f}}, {{t+|fr|tuyau|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spur|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|nyom}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|trop|m}}, {{t+|pl|cynk|m}} {{qualifier|slang}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|наводка|f|tr=navódka}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ledtråd|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|information obtained by a news reporter}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|leidraad|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vihje}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tuyau|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spur|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|trop|m}}, {{t+|pl|cynk|m}} {{qualifier|slang}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|potential customer}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prospect|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|br}}: [[roll#Breton|roll]] {{g|m}}, rolloù {{g|p}}, delc’her en e roll / gant ar roll
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|not comparable|lang=en}} [[foremost|Foremost]].
#: ''The contestants are all tied; no one has the '''lead''' position.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|foremost}} [[first]], [[front]], [[head]], [[leader]],<!-- adjective derived from the noun, not comparative --> [[leading]]

===Etymology 3===

===Verb===
{{head|en|misspelling}}

# {{misspelling of|led|lang=en}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|spite|built|lower|902|lead|wouldn't|success|instance}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Adel#English|Adel]]
* [[dale#English|dale]], [[Dale#English|Dale]]
* [[deal#English|deal]]
* [[E.D. La.#English|E.D. La.]]
* [[lade#English|lade]]

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:en:Chemical elements]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
{{hu-prefix|le|ad}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈlɛɒd/|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|le|ad|lang=hu}}

===Verb===
{{head|hu|verb|infinitive|leadni}}

# To [[pass down]], to [[hand down]], to [[turn]] in, to [[drop]] off.
# To lose weight, usually as a result of some kind of training or exercise.

====Conjugation====
{{hu-conj-ok|le|a|d}}

====Derived terms====
* [[leadja a voksát]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|ang}} {{m|gem-pro|*laudą}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|lē|ad|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|head=lēad|n}}

# [[lead]] {{gloss|metal}}

====Descendants====
* English: {{l/en|lead}}
* Scots: {{l|sco|leid}}

[[ar:lead]]
[[zh-min-nan:lead]]
[[cs:lead]]
[[cy:lead]]
[[de:lead]]
[[et:lead]]
[[el:lead]]
[[es:lead]]
[[eu:lead]]
[[fa:lead]]
[[fr:lead]]
[[gl:lead]]
[[ko:lead]]
[[hy:lead]]
[[hr:lead]]
[[io:lead]]
[[it:lead]]
[[kn:lead]]
[[kk:lead]]
[[ku:lead]]
[[lo:lead]]
[[la:lead]]
[[lv:lead]]
[[lb:lead]]
[[lt:lead]]
[[li:lead]]
[[hu:lead]]
[[mg:lead]]
[[ml:lead]]
[[my:lead]]
[[nl:lead]]
[[ja:lead]]
[[no:lead]]
[[oc:lead]]
[[pl:lead]]
[[pt:lead]]
[[ro:lead]]
[[ru:lead]]
[[sm:lead]]
[[sa:lead]]
[[simple:lead]]
[[sk:lead]]
[[sh:lead]]
[[fi:lead]]
[[sv:lead]]
[[tl:lead]]
[[ta:lead]]
[[te:lead]]
[[th:lead]]
[[chr:lead]]
[[tr:lead]]
[[uk:lead]]
[[vi:lead]]
[[vo:lead]]
[[zh:lead]]