==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|en|leapyear}}

===Etymology===
From Late {{inh|en|enm|lepe yeer}}, {{m|enm|lep ȝere}}, {{m|enm|lyp ȝere}}, equivalent to {{compound|en|leap|year}}. Probably from a much older formation related to the {{cog|non|hlaup-ár|t=leap year}}, {{cog|ang|mōnan hlȳp|t=moon's leap}} (compare {{cog|la|saltus lunae}} used in reckoning lunar months on a 19-year cycle). The name is presumably related to the phenomenon that any fixed date of a 365-day calendar advances one weekday each year but every date of a 366-day year after February 29  (often seen as the [[leap day]]) advances by two weekdays instead.<ref>[http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/106711 "'leap year, ''n.''"], in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'', Oxford: Oxford University Press.</ref><ref>{{R:Etymonline}}</ref><ref>{{R:Lexico|pos=n}}</ref> For example, Christmas (December 25) fell on a Saturday in 2004, a Sunday in 2005, a Monday in 2006, and a Tuesday in 2007 but then "leapt" over Wednesday to fall on a Thursday in 2008.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˈliːpˌjɪə/|nocount=1}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|en|/ˈliːpˌjɪɹ/|nocount=1}}
* {{i|obsolete}} {{IPA|en|/ˈlɛpˌjɪɹ/|/ˈlɛpˌjiːɹ/|nocount=1}}<ref>{{R:Jespersen MEGoHP|I|4.36|124}}</ref>
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[year]] in the [[Julian calendar|Julian]] or [[Gregorian calendar]]s with an [[intercalary]] [[day]] [[add]]ed to [[February]], [[use]]d to [[adjust]] for the [[extra]] [[hour]]s of the [[solar year]]; a 366-day year.
#* '''1878''', [[w:Wesley S. B. Woolhouse|W.S.B. Woolhouse]] & al., "[[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition/Calendar|Calendar]]" in the [[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition|''Encyclopædia Britannica'', 9th ed.]], [[:s:Encyclopædia Britannica, Ninth Edition/Volume IV|Vol. IV]], p. 666–7:
#*: The additional day which occurred every fourth year [after the [[w:Julian Reform|Julian Reform]]] was given to February, as being the shortest month, and was inserted in the calendar between the 24th and 25th day. February having then twenty-nine days, the 25th was the 6th of the calends of March, ''sexto calendas''; the preceding, which was the additional or intercalary day, was called ''bis-sexto calendas'',—hence the term ''[[bissextile]]'', which is still employed to distinguish the year of 366 days. The English denomination of '''''leap-year''''' would have been more appropriate if that year had differed from common years in ''defect'', and contained only 364 days. In the ecclesiastical calendar the intercalary day is still placed between the 24th and 25th of February; in the civil calendar it is the 29th.
# {{lb|en|inexact}} Any [[other]] [[year]] [[featuring]] [[intercalation]], [[such as]] a [[year]] in a [[lunisolar]] [[calendar]] with 13 [[month]]s [[instead of]] 12, [[use]]d to [[maintain]] its [[alignment]] with the [[season]]s of the [[solar year]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Julian & Gregorian}} {{l|en|bissextile}}, {{l|en|bissext}}

====Meronyms====
* {{l|en|leap day}}
* {{l|en|leap second}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|common year}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|366-day year in the Gregorian calendar}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|skrikkeljaar}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سَنَة كَبِيسَة}}
* Breton: {{t|br|bloavezh bizeost|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|високосна година|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|ရက်ထပ်နှစ်}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|any de traspàs|m}}, {{t+|ca|any bixest|m}}, {{t+|ca|any bissextil|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|閏年|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|闰年|tr=rùnnián|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přestupný rok|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|skudår|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schrikkeljaar|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|superjaro}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|liigaasta}}, {{t|et|bisekstiiliaasta}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|leypár|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|karkausvuosi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|année bissextile|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ნაკიანი წელიწადი|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|ნაკიანი წელი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schaltjahr|n}}
* Greek: {{t|el|δίσεκτο έτος|n|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|שנה מעוברת|m|tr=shaná meubéret}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|अधिवर्ष}}, {{t|hi|लीप वर्ष}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szökőév}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hlaupár|n}}
* Ido: {{t|io|bisextila yaro}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tahun kabisat}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|anno bissextil}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|bliain bhisigh|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|anno bisestile|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|閏年|tr=[[うるうどし]], urūdoshi; [[じゅんねん]], junnen|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ឆ្នាំ​បង្គ្រប់}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|윤년(閏年)}}
* Lao: {{t-needed|lo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|keliamieji metai|m-p}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Schaltjoer|n}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|престапна година|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tahun lompat}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|sena biżestili}}
* Minangkabau: {{t|min|tahun kabisat}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|өндөр жил|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|année bissextile|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|no|skuddår|n}}, {{t|no|skottår|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|no|skottår|n}}, {{t|no|skotår|n}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|سال انباشته|tr=sâl-e ambâšte}}, {{t+|fa|سال کبیسه|tr=sâl-e kabise}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Schaultjoa|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rok przestępny|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ano bissexto|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|an bisect|m}}, {{t|ro|an bisectil|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|високо́сный год|m}}
* Samoan: {{t|sm|puna ifo tausaga}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|bliadhna-leum|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|преступна година|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|prestupna godina|f}}, {{t|sh|prijestupna godina|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|priestupný rok|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|prestopno leto|n}}
* Southern Altai: {{t|alt|кату јыл}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bisiesto|m}}, {{t+|es|año bisiesto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skottår|n}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|taong bisyesto}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|соли кабиса}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ปีอธิกมาส}}, {{t|th|ปีอธิกสุรทิน}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|artık yıl}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|високо́сний рік|m}}, {{t|uk|пере́ступний рік}} {{qualifier|dated}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|سال کبیسہ|tr=sāl-e kabīsā}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|năm nhuận}}, {{t|vi|năm nhuần}}
* Waray-Waray: {{t|war|tuig bisyesto}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|blwyddyn naid}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|עיבור־יאָר|n|tr=iber-yor}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Calendar terms]]
[[Category:en:Years]]