==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|lû(r)n}}, {{IPA|/lɜː(r)n/}}, {{SAMPA|/l3:(r)n/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-learn.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɜː(r)n}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|leornian||lang=ang|to acquire knowledge}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|learns|learning|'''[[learned]]''' ''or'' '''[[learnt]]'''}}

# To [[acquire]], or attempt to acquire [[knowledge]] or an ability to do something.
# To [[attend]] a course or other [[educational]] activity.
#* '''1719:''' [[w:Daniel Defoe|Daniel Defoe]], ''[[w:Robinson Crusoe|Robinson Crusoe]]''
#*: ''For, as he took delight to introduce me, I took delight to '''learn.'''''
# To make use of a bad [[experience]].
# To [[improve]], maybe used in an order.
#: '''''Learn''' how to do it better!''
# To be studying.
# To come to [[know]]; to become [[inform]]ed of; to [[find out]].
#: ''He just '''learned''' that he will be sacked.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[study]]

=====Antonyms=====
* [[forget]]
* [[teach]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[learned]]
* [[learner]]

=====Usage notes=====
;History
In some regions there are people who do not distinguish between learn and teach.  It is a fairly recent distinction.  As recently as the 18th century it was acceptable to say ''The teacher learned the students their lessons.''  Then for no understood reason ''learn'' in the sense of ''teach'' discontinued in all but the south of the United States, where it is still in use today.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to acquire knowledge or ability}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|leer|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[تعلم]]}} {{IPAchar|(taʕálama)}}
* Armenian: [[սովորել]] (sovorel)
* Chinese: [[学]] (xué)
* Danish: {{t-|da|lære}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leren}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|lerni|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õppima}}, {{t-|et|omandama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oppia}}, {{t-|fi|opetella}}
* French: {{t+|fr|apprendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|lernen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ללמוד|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|सीखना|sc=Deva|xs=Hindi}} (sīkhnā)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tanul}}
* [[Ido]]: [[lernar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|belajar|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[apprender]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|imparare}}, {{t-|it|apprendere}}
* Japanese: [[習う]] ([[ならう]], narau); [[学ぶ]] ([[まなぶ]], manabu)
* Korean: [[배우다]] (baeuda)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[فێربوون]]}}
* Lao: {{Laoo|[[ຮຽມ]]}} (hian)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aprender}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|învăţa}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|учиться|tr=učít’s’a|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aprender}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|lära sig}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|నేర్చుకొను|sc=Telu}} (nErchukonu)
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|سیکھنا|sc=ur-Arab|xs=Urdu}} (sīkhnā)
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|leare|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to attend educational activity}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|lære}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õppima}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oppia}}, {{t+|fi|opiskella}}
* German: {{t+|de|lernen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|belajar|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imparare}}, {{t-|it|apprendere}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|studearre|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make use of a bad experience}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õppima}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oppia}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imparare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[فێر بوون]]}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|învăţa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to improve}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|arenema}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oppia}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be studying}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|lære}}, {{t-|da|studere}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leren}}, {{t+|nl|studeren}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õppima}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|opiskella}}, {{t-|fi|opetella}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|belajar|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imparare}}, {{t+|it|studiare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[勉強する]]　([[べんきょうする]], benkyô suru)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[خوێندن]]}}, {{KUchar|[[سه‌عی کردن]]}}
* Romanian: [[învăţa]], [[studiu]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|estudiar}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|studearre|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to come to know; to become informed of; to find out}}
* Danish: [[erfare]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ervaren}}, {{t+|nl|te weten komen}}, {{t+|nl|op de hoogte gesteld worden}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|õppima}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saada}} {{t+|fi|tietää}}
* German: {{t+|de|erfahren}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|apprendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|geascian|alt=ġeāscian|xs=Old English}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|afla}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aprender}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|తెలుసుకొను|sc=Telu}} (telusukonu)
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|leare|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[mëson]]
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[يتعلم]]}}
* {{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[učiti]]
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[aprendre]]
* {{Chinese}}: [[学]] (xué)
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[učiti]]
* {{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[ñembo'euka]]
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: ([[ללמוד]], leel-mod)
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[belajar]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[배우다]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[discere]]
* {{ttbc|Latvian}}: [[mācīties]]
* {{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[mokytis]]
* {{ttbc|Manchu}}: ([[tacimbi]])
* {{ttbc|Maori}}: [[ako]]
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[uczyć|uczyć się]]
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[aprender]]
* {{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[ionnsaich]], [[foghlaim]], [[teagaisg]]
* {{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*: Cyrillic: [[учити#Serbian|учити]]
*: Roman: [[učiti#Serbian|učiti]]
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[učiti se]], [[izučiti]] (3)
* {{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[nhembo'e]] (thing learned indicated with postposition [[esé]] (r-))
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[lära sig]] (1,4,5)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|læran||lang=ang|to teach}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|learns|learning|'''[[learned]]''' ''or'' '''[[learnt]]'''}}

# To teach.

=====Usage notes=====
* Formerly a correct usage, through the 19th century.
* No longer considered correct in standard English.
* Sometimes used in dialects.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[learned#Etymology 1|learned]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[larn]]
* [[lore]]

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* ''Family Word'' Finder Readers Digest Association Inc. NY 1975

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:learn]]
[[el:learn]]
[[es:learn]]
[[fa:learn]]
[[fr:learn]]
[[gl:learn]]
[[ko:learn]]
[[hi:learn]]
[[io:learn]]
[[id:learn]]
[[is:learn]]
[[it:learn]]
[[ku:learn]]
[[lo:learn]]
[[lt:learn]]
[[hu:learn]]
[[nl:learn]]
[[ja:learn]]
[[pl:learn]]
[[pt:learn]]
[[ru:learn]]
[[simple:learn]]
[[fi:learn]]
[[sv:learn]]
[[ta:learn]]
[[te:learn]]
[[vi:learn]]
[[tr:learn]]
[[uk:learn]]
[[zh:learn]]