==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|lether|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|leþer||leather|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*leþrą||leather}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*letrom||leather}}. Cognate with West Frisian {{term|leare||leather|lang=fy}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|leder|lang=nl}}, {{term|leer||leather|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Leder||leather|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|läder||leather|lang=sv}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|leður||leather|lang=is}}. The Celtic forms ({{etyl|cy|-}} {{term|lledr|lang=cy}}, {{etyl|ga|-}} {{term|lethar|lang=ga}}) ultimately derive from the Germanic.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈlɛðɚ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-leather.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛðə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# A tough material produced from the [[skin]] of [[animal]]s, by [[tan]]ning or similar process, used e.g. for [[clothing]].
# A piece of the above used for [[polish]]ing.
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} A [[cricket]] ball or [[football]].
# (''plural'': '''leathers''') clothing made from the skin of animals, often worn by [[motorcycle]] riders.
# {{context|baseball|lang=en}} A good defensive play
#: ''Jones showed good '''leather''' to snare that [[liner]].''
# {{context|dated|humorous|lang=en}} The [[skin]].

====Hyponyms====
{{sense|types of leather}} [[chagrin]], [[cordovan]], [[cordwain]], [[galuchat]], [[maroquin]], [[morocco]], [[morocco leather]], [[shagreen]], [[sharkskin]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|material produced by tanning animal skin}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|lëkurë}}
* Ancient Greek: {{tø|grc|βύρσα|f|tr=búrsa|sc=polytonic}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|جلد|tr=jild|m}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կաշի|tr=kaši}}
* Asturian: {{t-|ast|cueru|m}}
* Avestan: {{tø|ae|carəman-}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|cuir|m}}
* Chamicuro: {{tø|ccc|shama}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|皮革|tr=pí gé|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kůže|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|læder|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leer|n}}, {{t+|nl|leder|n}} {{qualifier|formal}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ledo}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|leður|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nahka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cuir|m}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|coiro|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ტყავი|tr=tqavi|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Leder|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δέρμα|n|tr=dérma|sc=Grek}}
* Guaraní: {{t-|gn|pire}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|עור|tr=iver|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|चमड़ा|tr=camaṛā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bőr}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|leður|n}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|ledro}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kulit}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|leathar|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cuoio|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|皮|tr=かわ, kawa}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|가죽|tr=gajuk}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|cutis|f}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|āda|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|oda|f}}
* Malayalam: {{t-|ml|തോല്‍]]|tr=thOl}}
* Mongolian: {{t-|mn|савхи|tr=savkhi|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian Bokmål: {{t-|nb|lær|n}}
* Ojibwe: {{tø|oj|bashkwegin}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|кожа|f|tr=koža|sc=Cyrs}}
* Old Persian: {{tø|peo|čarman-|sc=Xpeo}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|چرم|tr=čarm}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|skóra|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|couro|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|piele|f}}, {{t-|ro|piele de animal|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кожа|f|tr=kóža}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|koža|f}}
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|кожа|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|koža|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|usnje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cuero|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|läder|n}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|หนัง|tr=năng}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|deri}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|da thuộc}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|cur|m}}
* Zulu: {{t+|zu|isikhumba|c7|c8}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|piece of leather used for polishing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|säämiskä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: cricket ball or football}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nahkakuula}} (''football'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bőr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|leather clothing}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|nahkavaatteet}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball: good defensive play}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-|-}}

# Made of leather.
# Referring to one who wears leather clothing (motorcycle jacket, chaps over 501 jeans, boots), especially as a sign of sadomasochistic homosexuality.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|made of leather}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|kožený}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|læder-}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leren}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|leda}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|leður-}}
* Finnish: [[nahka]]-, [[nahkainen]]
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|odinis}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|چرمی|tr=charmi}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|skórzany}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: din [[piele]] (fabricat)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кожаный|tr=kóžanyj}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|кожни|m}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|kožni|m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|kožený}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|usnjen}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|deri}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To cover with leather.
# To strike  forcefully.
#: He ''leathered'' the ball all the way down the street.

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adjective, noun, or verb ''leather''}}
* [[hell-for-leather]]
* [[leatherback]]
* [[leatherette]]
* [[leatherhead]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[leatherjacket]]<!--a type of fish-->
* [[leather jacket]]<!--a jacket made of leather-->
* [[leather-lunged]]
* [[leathern]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[leathery]]
* [[wash-leather]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[haltere#English|haltere]]
* [[lethera#English|lethera]]
* [[Tar Heel#English|Tar Heel]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:en:Fabrics]]

[[ar:leather]]
[[cs:leather]]
[[cy:leather]]
[[da:leather]]
[[de:leather]]
[[et:leather]]
[[el:leather]]
[[es:leather]]
[[eo:leather]]
[[eu:leather]]
[[fr:leather]]
[[ko:leather]]
[[io:leather]]
[[id:leather]]
[[it:leather]]
[[kn:leather]]
[[kk:leather]]
[[ku:leather]]
[[lo:leather]]
[[li:leather]]
[[hu:leather]]
[[mg:leather]]
[[ml:leather]]
[[my:leather]]
[[nl:leather]]
[[ja:leather]]
[[oc:leather]]
[[pl:leather]]
[[pt:leather]]
[[ru:leather]]
[[simple:leather]]
[[fi:leather]]
[[sv:leather]]
[[ta:leather]]
[[te:leather]]
[[tr:leather]]
[[uk:leather]]
[[vi:leather]]
[[zh:leather]]