==English==

===Pronunciation===

From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|leven}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|sc=Latinx|lǣfan||to leave}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*laibijaną||to let stay, leave}}, causative of {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*lībaną||to stay, remain}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*leyp-||to stick, fat}}. Cognate with {{cog|ofs|lēva||to leave}}, {{cog|osx|lēvian}}, , {{cog|non|leifa||leave over}} (whence Icelandic {{m|is|leifa||to leave food uneaten}}),  (whence Danish ). More at [[lave#Etymology_2|lave]], [[belive#Etymology_1|believe]].

====Verb====

# ''To have a consequence or remnant.''
## To cause or allow (something) to [[remain]] as [[available]]; to [[refrain]] from taking (something) away; to stop short of consuming or otherwise depleting (something) entirely
##: 
##* 
##* 
##: 
##* 
##* 
##* 
## To put; to place; to deposit; to deliver, with a sense of withdrawing oneself.
##: 
##* Bible, {{w|Gospel of Matthew|Matthew}} v. 24
##*: '''Leave''' there thy gift before the altar and go thy way.
##* (1564-1616)
##*: The foot / That '''leaves''' the print of blood where'er it walks.
# {{lb|en|heading}} ''To depart; to separate from.''
## To let be or do without interference.
##: 
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[depart]] from; to end one's connection or [[affiliation]] with.
##: 
##* 
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[end]] one's [[membership]] in (a group); to terminate one's affiliation with (an organization); to [[stop]] participating in (a project).
##: 
## My{{lb|en|intransitive}} To depart; to [[go away]] from a certain place or state.
##: 
# {{lb|en|heading}} ''To transfer something.''
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[transfer]] [[possession]] of after death.
##: {{ux|en|When my father died, he '''left''' me the house.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[give]] (something) to someone; to [[deliver]] (something) to a repository; to [[deposit]].
##: {{ux|en|I'll '''leave''' the car in the station so you can pick it up there.}}
## {{lb|en|transitive}} To transfer [[responsibility]] or [[attention]] of (something) (to someone); to [[stop]] being [[concerned]] with.
##: 
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[remain]] (behind); to [[stay]].
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|20.11|2|XVIII|xj}}:
#*: And whanne sire launcelot sawe them fare soo / he gat a spere in his hand / and there encountred with hym al attones syr bors sir Ector and sire Lyonel / and alle they thre smote hym atte ones with their speres /{{...}}/ and by mysfortune sir bors smote syre launcelot thurgh the shelde in to the syde / and the spere brake / and the hede '''lefte''' stylle in his syde
<!--Prior quote:And by myssefortune Sir Bors smote Sir Launcelot thorow the shylde into the syde, and the speare brake and the hede '''leffte''' stylle in the syde.-->
#*: Carried somehow, somewhither, for some reason, on these surging floods, were these travelers,{{nb...}}. Even such a boat as the ''Mount Vernon'' offered a total deck space so cramped as to '''leave''' secrecy or privacy well out of the question, even had the motley and democratic assemblage of passengers been disposed to accord either.
# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To [[stop]], desist from; to "[[leave off]]" (+ noun / gerund).
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', {{w|Gospel of Luke|Luke}} V:
#*: When he had '''leeft''' speakynge, he sayde vnto Simon: Cary vs into the depe, and lett slippe thy nette to make a draught.
#* {{w|Alexander Pope}} (1688-1744)
#*: Now '''leave''' complaining and begin your tea

=====Translations=====
====Noun====

# {{lb|en|cricket}} The action of the [[batsman]] not attempting to play at the ball.
# {{lb|en|billiards}} The arrangement of balls in play that remains after a shot is made (which determines whether the next shooter — who may be either the same player, or an opponent — has good options, or only poor ones).
#* '''1890''' February 27, [http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F00A17FF3E5F10738DDDAE0A94DA405B8085F0D3 "Slosson's Close Shave"], in ''[[w:New York Times|The New York Times]]'':
#*: Having counted 38 points he tried a beautiful [[massé]] out of the corner, hit the first ball just a trife too hard and kissed his own ball off just when victory seemed to be his. The '''leave''' was unfortunate for Ives. Slosson played brilliantly and ran the game out, a close winner, with 22 points.

===Etymology 2===
{{PIE root|en|lewbʰ}}
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|leve}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|lēaf||permission, privilege}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} , {{m|gem-pro|*laubą||permission, privilege, favour, worth}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*lewbʰ-||to love, hold dear}}. Cognate with obsolete German {{m|de|Laube||permission}}, {{cog|sv|lov||permission}}, {{cog|is|leyfi||permission}}. Related to {{cog|nl|verlof}}, {{cog|de|Erlaubnis}}. See also {{l|en|love}}.

====Noun====

# Permission to be absent; [[time|for time]] away from one's for [[work]].
#: ''I've been given three weeks' '''leave''' by my boss.''
# Farewell, [[departure]].
#: ''I took my '''leave''' of the gentleman without a backward glance.''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|leaves|leaving|leaved}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To give leave to; [[allow]]; [[permit]]; [[let]]; [[grant]].

===Etymology 4===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} , from . More at {{l|en|leaf}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|leaves|leaving|left}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|rare}} To produce [[leaf|leaves]] or [[foliage]].<ref>''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed.</ref>
#*: 
#*: 
Privacy settings 

#*:  Privacy settings 

[[Category:English 1-syllable words]]
[[Category:English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]