==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[lecanomancie]]
* [[lecaunomancy]]
* [[leconomancy]]
* [[leucanomancy]]
* [[licanomancy]]

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|NL.}} {{term|lecanomantia|lang=la}} < {{etyl|LL.}} {{term|lecanomantia|lang=la}} < {{etyl|grc}} {{term|λεκανομαντεία|tr=lekanomanteia|lang=grc}} < {{etyl|grc}} {{term|λεκάνη|tr=lekanē||dish, pan|lang=grc}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[divination|Divination]] by interpreting the sound or effect of an object or substance falling into a body of water. [[gem|Gem]]s are commonly used.

===Quotations===
* '''1533''' Cornelius Agrippa De Occult Philosophia lvii.
*: Erat etiam olim apud Assyrios in magno precio Hydromantiæ species, '''Lecanomantia''' nuncupata, a pelvi aquæ plena, cui imponebantur aureæ at argenteæ laminæ et lapides preciosi, certis imaginibus, nominibus et characteribus inscriptæ

* '''1610''' Vives in J. Healey Saint Augustine of the Citie of God
*: Diuination generally was done by diuers means..Hydromancy..done..in a basen of water, which is called '''Lecanomancie''', in which Strabo sayth the Asians are singular.

* '''1660''' Urquhart tr. Rabelais Gargantua & Pantagruel iii. xxv.
*: Have you a mind (quoth Her Trippa) to have the truth of the matter yet more fully and amply disclosed unto you..by '''Leconomancy''', of old in prime request amongst the Assyrians, and thoroughly tried by Hermolaus Barbarus.

* '''1893''' Howitt tr. Ennemoser Hist. Magic ii.
*: Among the various other kinds of divination not here mentioned may be enumerated Chilomancy performed with keys; Alphitomancy or Aleuromancy, by flour; Keraunoscopia, by the consideration of thunder; Eychnomancy, by lamps; Ooscopy, by eggs; '''Licanomancy''' by a basin of water; Palpitatim, Salisatio, by the pulsation or motion of some member etc.

* '''1931''' Lock tr. de Givry Picture Museum of Sorcery
*: I may mention further '''lecanomancy''', which was performed by letting precious stones drop into water; a mysterious little whistling resulted which announced the thing desired.

[[Category:Divination]]