{{also|Leet|le'et}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/liːt/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːt|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-ca-leet.oga|Audio (CA)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
Compare {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|hlēte}}, {{m|ang|*hlīete||share, lot}}, cognate with {{cog|non|hleyti||share, portion}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Scotland}} A portion or list, especially a list of candidates for an office; also the candidates themselves.<ref name= "isbn0-19-861271-0">Brown, Lesley. The New shorter Oxford English dictionary on historical principles. Clarendon Oxford 1993 isbn=0-19-861271-0</ref>

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|lēt}}, past tense of {{m|ang|lǣtan||to let}}.

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} {{en-simple past of|let}}

===Etymology 3===
Originated 1400–50 from late {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|lete||[[meeting]]}}, from {{etyl|xno|en}} {{m|fro|lete}} and {{etyl|ML.|en}} {{m|la|leta}}, possibly from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|gelǣte||[[crossroads]]}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|British|obsolete}} A regular [[court]], more specifically a [[court-leet]], in which certain [[lord]]s had jurisdiction over local disputes, or the physical area of this jurisdiction.<ref name= "isbn0-19-861271-0"/>

===Etymology 4===
Jamieson mentions the alternative spellings ''lyth'', ''lythe'', ''laid'', and ''laith'', and connects it to a erb {{m|en|lythe||to shelter}}, as it "is frequently caught ... in deep holes among the rocks".<ref>John Jamieson, ''Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish Language'' ([https://archive.org/stream/anetymologicald01jamigoog link]): [[Wikipedia:Common name|Common name]] in Scotland and North Country England, that varies regionally and confuses several species. Scottish lythe, laid, laith. Pollack. "...called leets on the coast near Scarborough... the lyth, or ly-fish, is frequently caught ... in deep holes among the rocks". ''cf.'' "To LYTHE, v. a. To shelter..."</ref>

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|UK}} The [[European]] [[pollock]].
#* '''1854''', William Hughes, ''A Practical Treatise on the Choice and Cookery of Fish'' [https://books.google.com/books?id=w_opAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA27] (Longman, Brown, Green and Longmans), page 27:
#*: The whiting pollock sometimes, ''par excellence'' is styled pollock only. On the Yorkshire coast it is called a leet, and in Scotland a lythe.

===Etymology 5===

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{alt form|leat|lang=en||watercourse}}

===Etymology 6===
An [[aphetic]] form of {{m|en|elite}}, respelled according to leetspeak conventions.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|1337}}, {{l|en|eleet}}, {{l|en|el337}}, {{l|en|l33t}}, {{l|en|31337}}, and [[3l33t]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Internet slang}} {{abbreviation of|leetspeak|lang=en}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er}}

# Of or relating to [[leetspeak]].
# {{lb|en|slang}} Possessing outstanding skill in a field; [[expert]], [[masterful]].
# {{lb|en|slang}} Having superior social rank over others; [[upper class]], [[elite]].
# {{lb|en|slang}} [[awesome|Awesome]], typically to describe a feat of skill; [[cool]], [[sweet]].
#* '''2006''', ''Maximum PC'' (Autumn, page 26)
#*: Powered by leetness! You can have the '''leetest''' hardware imaginable in your gaming rig, but it won't matter if you run it with a cheap power supply.

===References===
<references/>
* {{R:Dictionary.com|leet}}
* {{R:Webster 1996|leet}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=eelt|Teel|Tele|teel|tele|tele-}}

[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:en:Gadiforms]]

----

==Luxembourgish==

===Verb===
{{head|lb|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|leeden||3|s|pres|ind|;|2|p|pres|ind|;|2|s|and|p|imp|lang=lb}}

===Verb===
{{head|lb|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|leeën||3|s|pres|ind|;|2|p|pres|ind|;|2|p|imp|lang=lb}}

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|dum|odt|lēth}}, from {{inh|dum|gem-pro|*laiþaz}}.

====Adjective====
{{dum-adj|head=lêet}}

# [[loathsome]], [[abhorrent]]

=====Inflection=====
{{rfinfl|dum|adjective}}

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{l|dum|leit}} {{q|Limburgish}}

=====Descendants=====
* Dutch: {{l|nl|leed}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|dum|odt|*lēth}}, from {{inh|dum|gem-pro|*laiþą}}.

====Noun====
{{dum-noun|head=lêet|n}}

# [[damage]], [[harm]]
# [[suffering]], [[sadness]]
# [[sickness]]

=====Inflection=====
{{rfinfl|dum|noun}}

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{l|dum|leit}} {{q|Limburgish}}

=====Descendants=====
* Dutch: {{l|nl|leed}}
* Limburgish: {{l|li|leidj}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:VMNW|ID66133|II}}
* {{R:VMNW|ID47133|III}}
* {{R:MNW|25448|I}}
* {{R:MNW|25449|II}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Verb===
{{head|no|verb form}}

# {{form of|Past tense and past participle|lee|lang=no}}

----

==Saterland Frisian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ofs|stq}} {{m|ofs|let}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|stq}} {{m|gem-pro|*lataz}}. More at {{l|en|late}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|stq|adjective}}

# [[late]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|stq|lääst}}
* {{l|stq|leeter}}

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
Compare {{etyl|ang|sco}} {{m|ang|hlēte||[[share]], [[lot]]}}.

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# a [[list]]