{{wikipedia|dab=Left}}
==English==

{{rank|ever|saw|things|158|left|part|off|took}}

===Etymology===
From [[Middle English]], ''[[left]]'', ''[[lift]]'', ''[[luft]]''; from [[Anglo-Saxon]], ''[[left]]'', ''[[lyft]]'' lit. ''worthless, weak'' allied to [[Anglo-Saxon]] ''lyft-ádl'', a palsy.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɛft/}}, {{SAMPA|/lEft/}}
* {{audio|en-us-left.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛft}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|more left|leftmost}}

# The [[west]] side of the body when one is facing north.
# [[remaining]].
# {{politics}} Pertaining to the political left; [[liberal]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|direction}}
* Albanian: [[majtë]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[يسار]]}} (yasār)
* Armenian: [[ձախ]] (dzax)
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|ляв|tr=ljav|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[esquerre]]
* Chinese: [[左]] (zuǒ)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|lijevi}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|levý|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|venstre}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|links}}, {{t|nl|linkse}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|maldekstra|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|liva|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: [[vasak]], [[pahem]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vasen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gauche}}
* German: {{t+|de|link|alt=links}}
* [[Hiligaynon]]: [[wala]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bal}}
* [[Ido]]: [[sinistra]]
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kiri|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|sinistro}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[左]] ([[ひだり]], hidarí)
* Korean: [[왼쪽의]] (oenjjokui)
* [[Lakota]]: [[catkayata]]
* Latin: {{t-|la|sinister}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|лев|tr=lev|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|kiri|xs=Malay}}
* Maltese: [[xellug]] {{m}}
* [[Mi'kmaq]]: [[inaganeq]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|venstre}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[namanjinik]], [[namanjinikan]] {{p}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|lewy|m}}, {{t+|pl|lewa|f}}, {{t+|pl|lewe|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esquerdo}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|stâng}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|левый|tr=lévyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|levo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|izquierdo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vänster}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఎడమ]] (eDama)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|remaining}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|останал|tr=ostanal|sc=Cyrl}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|preostali}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|zbývající|m}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|achtergelaten}}
* Esperanto: [[restaĵo]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jäljelle}}, {{t-|fi|jäljellä}}
* German: {{t-|de|übrig}}
* Hungarian: [[hátralévő]]
* Japanese: [[残って]] ([[のこって]], nokótte)
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|ماوه‌|sc=KUchar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maltese: [[fdal]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|igjen}}, {{t|no|til overs}}
* Polish: [[pozostały]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|deixado}}
* Romanian: [[rămas]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|оставшийся|tr=ostášijsja|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|остальной|tr=ostal’nój|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|sobrado|m}}, {{t-|es|sobras|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kvar}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[మిగిలిన]] (migilina)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to the political left; liberal}}
* Armenian: [[ձախ]] (dzax)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|venstre}}
* Polish: [[lewicowy]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[de esquerda]], [[liberal#Portuguese|liberal]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|левый|tr=lévyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|либеральный|tr=liberál’nyj|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* [[port]]

====Antonyms====
* [[right]]

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# On or towards the left side.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The left side.
# {{politics}} The [[ensemble]] of [[left-wing]] [[political]] [[party|parties]]. Political liberals as a group.
#: ''The political '''left''' is not holding enough power.''
# {{boxing}} A punch delivered with the left fist.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|The left side (1)}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[یسار]]}}
* [[Basque]]: [[ezker]]
* Bulgarian: [[левица]] (levitsa)
* [[Catalan]]: [[esquerra]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|linkerkant|m}}
* Finnish: [[vasen]] [[puoli]]
* French: {{t+|fr|gauche|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Linke|f}}
* Hungarian: [[bal]][[oldal]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|sinistra|f}}
* Japanese: [[左側]] ([[ひだりがわ]], hidarí-gawá)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t-|ku|چه‌پ|sc=KUchar}}
* [[Lakota]]: [[catkayatan]]
* Norwegian: {{t|no|venstresiden|c}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|lewa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esquerda|f}}
* Romanian: [[stângă]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|левый|tr=lévyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|izquierda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vänster|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఎడమ]] (eDama)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The ensemble of left-wing political parties}}
* Bulgarian: [[левица]] (levitsa)
* [[Catalan]]: [[esquerra]] {{f}}
* Croatian: [[ljevica]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|linkerkant|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vasemmisto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gauche|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Linke|f}}
* Hungarian: [[bal]][[oldal]]
* Indonesian: [[sayap]] [[kiri]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|sinistra|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[左翼]] ([[さよく]], sayokú)
* Norwegian: {{t|no|venstresiden|c}}
* Polish: [[lewica]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esquerda|f}}
* Romanian: [[stângă]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|левый|tr=lévyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: [[levica]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|izquierda|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vänster|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|sol}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[links]]
* {{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[majta]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[左]] (zuǒ)
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[maldekstra]]
* {{ttbc|Sardinian}}: [[manca]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[వామ పక్షం]] (vaama pakshaM)
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[trái]], [[phía bên trái]] (1); [[cánh tả]] (2)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[to the left]]
* [[left-handed]]
* [[two left feet]]

===Verb===
'''left'''

# {{past of|[[leave]]}}
# {{Ireland}} {{colloquial}} permitted, allowed to proceed.
#: We were not '''left''' go to the beach after school except on a weekend.

===References===
* The Concise Dictionary of English Etymology, Walter W. Skeat.

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:Contranyms]]
[[Category:Directions]]
[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:English adverbs]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English nouns]]

[[ar:left]]
[[et:left]]
[[el:left]]
[[es:left]]
[[fr:left]]
[[ko:left]]
[[io:left]]
[[id:left]]
[[it:left]]
[[kk:left]]
[[ku:left]]
[[lo:left]]
[[hu:left]]
[[ja:left]]
[[no:left]]
[[pl:left]]
[[ru:left]]
[[simple:left]]
[[fi:left]]
[[sv:left]]
[[ta:left]]
[[te:left]]
[[tr:left]]
[[uk:left]]
[[zh:left]]