==English==

===Etymology===
Apparently from the Usenet newsgroup ''alt.usage.english'' circa 1997. [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.usage.english/browse_frm/thread/f0a61071e7d33b56]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{slang}} From or of [[Leftpondia]].
#* '''1999''' December 29, Garry J. Vass <Garry@gvass.demon.co.uk>, "London Boink -> update (Leftpondian)", ''alt.usage.english, uk.culture.language.english'', Usenet.
#* '''2001''' January 4, Mark Brader <msb@vex.net>, "Re: Twenty-six-hundred", ''alt.usage.english'', Usenet,
#*: As has been pointed out here before, '''Leftpondian''' check forms typically have a blank for the amount in words followed by "/100 dollars", to be filled in in the style "Forty-five and 37/100 dollars".
#* '''2003''' February 5, Harvey V <harvey.news@ntlworld.com>, "Re: preference preference", ''alt.possessive.its.has.no.apostrophe'', Usenet,
#*: Or is there perhaps some Leftpondian region where "rather" is used as an intensifier?
#* '''2006''' August 10, Dr Peter Young <pnyoung@ormail.co.uk>, "'''Leftpondian''' circumlocution.", ''alt.possessive.its.has.no.apostrophe'', Usenet.
# {{slang}} Like a Leftpondian [[person]].
#* '''2000''' March 12, Polgara The Sorceress <laureleeNOlaSPAM@hotmail.com.invalid>, "Re: Nouns as Verbs", ''alt.possessive.its.has.no.apostrophe'', Usenet,
#*: I may be *so* '''Leftpondian''', but you love me anyway!
#* '''2000''' August 3, John Ward <johnward@argonet.co.uk>, "Re: Point this friday ( 28th July)", ''uk.media.tv.sf.babylon5.social'', Usenet,
#*: How very '''Leftpondian''' of you to refer to them thus...

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s}}

# {{slang}} A Leftpondian [[person]].
#* '''2003''' June 20, Jacqui <sirlawrenceoblivion@hotmail.com>, "Nu Salford displaces Real Manc [was Re: Between X to Y]", ''alt.usage.english'', Usenet,
#*: No, not particularly. That's why I offered it as an example of a large place well known to Brits but not to '''Leftpondians'''. It is very close to Manchester.
#* '''2005''' July 5, Peter Boulding <pjb@UNSPAMpboulding.co.uk>, "Attention '''Leftpondians''': you're older than you think", ''alt.fan.cecil-adams'', Usenet,
#*: '''Leftpondians''' are at least 24,000 years older than previously thought, according to an article in today's Independent.
#* '''2006''' August 10, Dr Peter Young <pnyoung@ormail.co.uk>, "Leftpondian circumlocution.", ''alt.possessive.its.has.no.apostrophe'', Usenet,
#*: Just heard a '''Leftpondian''', on the radio news and in relevance to airport security, refer to "specially trained canine units".

====Antonyms====
* [[Rightpondian]]