==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
< {{etyl|enm}} {{term|legende}} < {{etyl|fro}} {{term|legende}} < {{etyl|ML.}} {{term|legenda||a legend, story, esp. the lives of the saints, orig. things to be read}}, neut. pl. of fut. pass. part. of {{term|legere||to read}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈlɛʤ.ənd/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[story]] of unknown origin describing [[plausible]] but [[extraordinary]] past [[events]].  Also [[historical legend]].
#: ''The '''legend''' of Troy was discovered to have historical basis.''
# A story in which a [[kernel of truth]] is [[embellish]]ed to an unlikely degree.
#: ''The 1984 Rose Bowl prank has spawned many '''legends'''.  Here's the real story.''
# A leading [[protagonist]] in a historical legend.
#: ''Achilles is a '''legend''' in Greek culture.''
# Any person of extraordinary [[accomplishment]].
#: ''Michael Jordan stands as a '''legend''' in basketball.''
# A [[key]] to the symbols and color codes on a [[map]], [[chart]], etc.
#: ''According to the '''legend''' on the map, that building is a school.''
# The text on a coin.
# A fabricated backstory for spies, complete with appropriate documents and records.
#: ''According to his '''legend''', he once worked for the Red Cross, spreading humanitarian aid in Africa.''
#* '''1992''', [[w:Ronald Kessler|Ronald Kessler]], ''Inside the CIA'', 1994 [[w:Pocket Books|Pocket Books]] edition, ISBN 067173458X, page 115:
#*: If the documents are needed to establish "a light '''legend'''," meaning a superficial cover story, no steps are taken to make sure that if someone calls the college or motor vehicle department, the name on the document will be registered.
#* '''2003''', Rodney Carlisle, ''[[w:Complete Idiot's Guides|The Complete Idiot's Guide to]] Spies and Espionage'', [[w:Alpha Books|Alpha Books]], ISBN 0028644182, page 105:
#*: Sorge solidified his own position by returning to Germany and developing a new '''legend'''. He joined the Nazi Party{{...}}.
#* '''2005''', [[w:Curtis Peebles|Curtis Peebles]], ''Twilight Warriors'', [[w:Naval Institute Press|Naval Institute Press]], ISBN 1591146607, page 25:
#*: Both the agent's '''legend''' and documents were intended to stand up against casual questions from Soviet citizens, such as during a job interview, or a routine police document check, such as were made at railway stations.
# {{Australia|slang}} A worthy friend.
#: ''Cheers mate for fixing my car, you're a '''legend'''.''

====Synonyms====
* [[key]] (5)
* [[guide]] (5)
* [[myth]] (1, 2)
* [[hero]] (3, 4)
* tall [[tale]] (2)
* [[inscription]] (6)

====Derived terms====
* [[campus legend]]
* [[legend in one's own mind|legend in one’s own mind]]
* [[legend in one's own time|legend in one’s own time]]
* [[urban legend]]

====Related terms====
* [[lege]]
* [[legendary]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|story of unknown origin describing plausible but extraordinary past events}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|llegenda|f}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|legenda|f|alt=lègēnda}}, {{t-|hr|predaja|f|alt=prȅdaja}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|pověst|f}}, {{t+|cs|legenda|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|legende|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|legenda}}
* French: {{t+|fr|légende}}
* German: {{t+|de|Legende|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θρύλος|m|tr=thr&yacute;los}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אגדה|tr=agada}}
* Japanese: [[伝説]] (でんせつ, densetsu)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|legenda|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lenda|f}}
* Serbian: [[gatka]] {{f}}, [[kaža]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|leyenda|f}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|efsane}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|any person of extraordinary accomplishment}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|legenda|f|alt=lègēnda}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|θρύλος|m|tr=thr&yacute;los}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|legenda|f}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|efsane}},  {{t+|tr|kahraman}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|key to the symbols and color codes on a map}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|επεξήγηση|f|tr=epeks&iacute;gisi}}, {{t+|el|λεζάντα|f|tr=lez&aacute;nta}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|凡例|tr=はんれい, hanrei}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|legenda|f}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|lejant}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

----

==German==

===Verb===
'''legend'''

# {{de-verb form of|legen|pr}}


[[ar:legend]]
[[bg:legend]]
[[co:legend]]
[[de:legend]]
[[et:legend]]
[[el:legend]]
[[fr:legend]]
[[ko:legend]]
[[io:legend]]
[[it:legend]]
[[kn:legend]]
[[kk:legend]]
[[sw:legend]]
[[lo:legend]]
[[hu:legend]]
[[ml:legend]]
[[nl:legend]]
[[pl:legend]]
[[ru:legend]]
[[scn:legend]]
[[fi:legend]]
[[sv:legend]]
[[ta:legend]]
[[te:legend]]
[[th:legend]]
[[uk:legend]]
[[vi:legend]]
[[zh:legend]]