==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|af}} {{term|lekker|lang=af}}, from {{etyl|nl}} {{term|lekker|lang=nl}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|South Africa}} [[tasty|Tasty]], [[nice]], [[fun]], [[great]].
# {{context|South Africa}} [[good|Good]] in a generic sense, [[worthy]], [[functional]].
#* {{quote-book
|year=1998
|author=Leon Schuster
|title=Leon Schuster's lekker, thick South African joke book‎
|page=164
|passage=}}The other men ask why he's crying, when he's got such a '''lekker''' car. The guy shakes his head and says, "I just saw my wife, and she was driving a skateboard."

====Derived terms====
* [[lekker lewe]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|nl|af}} {{term|lekker|lang=nl}}, akin to German {{term|lecker|lang=de}}.

===Adjective===
'''lekker'''

# Having a nice [[taste]], [[tasty]], [[good]].
#: ''Die kos het '''lekker''' gesmaak '' &mdash; The food was very tasty.
# Good, [[nice]] in a more generic sense.
#: ''Ons het '''lekker''' gespeel'' &mdash; We had a great time playing.

[[Category:Afrikaans adjectives]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈlɛ.kər/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-lekker.ogg|Audio}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj}}

# Having a nice [[taste]], [[tasty]], [[delectable]].
#: ''Het eten is weer '''lekker''' vandaag, mam!'' &mdash; The dinner is tasty again today, mum!
# Good, [[nice]], [[pleasant]] in a more generic sense.
#: '''''Lekker''' weertje!'' &mdash; Nice weather!
# {{colloquial|lang=nl}} [[hot|Hot]], [[sexy]], physically attractive.
#: ''Hij is zo'n '''lekker''' dier!'' He's such a hottie!
#: ''He, '''lekkere''' meid!'' &mdash; Hey, sexy girl!

====Declension====
{{nl-decl-adj}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[lekker belangrijk]]
* [[lekkerbek]]
* [[lekkernij]]
* [[lekkers]] {{n}}
* [[lekker stuk]] {{n}}
* [[verlekkerd]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj-comp}}

# {{nl-adj form of|d=comp|lek}}

===Anagrams===
* [[krekel#Dutch|krekel]]

[[fr:lekker]]
[[id:lekker]]
[[it:lekker]]
[[li:lekker]]
[[hu:lekker]]
[[mg:lekker]]
[[nl:lekker]]
[[no:lekker]]
[[pl:lekker]]
[[sv:lekker]]
[[vi:lekker]]