{{wikipedia|dab=lever (disambiguation)|lever}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Canada}} {{IPA|/ˈliːvɜr, ˈlɛvɜr/}}
* \Lev"er\
*: {{rhymes|ɛvə(r)|iːvə(r)}}
* {{audio|en-uk-lever.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{audio|II US lever.ogg‎|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro}} ''[[levier]]''.

===Adverb===
'''lever'''

# {{obsolete}} Rather. &mdash;Chaucer.
#: ''For lever had I die than see his deadly face.'' &mdash;Spenser

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# {{mechanics}} A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where forces are applied; &mdash; used for transmitting and modifying force and motion. Specif., a  bar of metal, wood, or other rigid substance, used to exert a pressure, or sustain a weight, at one point of its length, by receiving a force or power at a second, and turning at a third on a fixed point called a fulcrum. It is usually named as the first of the six mechanical powers, and is of three kinds, according as either the fulcrum F, the weight W, or the power P, respectively, is situated between the other two, as in the figures.
# {{mechanics}} A bar, as a capstan bar, applied to a rotatory piece to turn it.
# {{mechanics}} An arm on a rock shaft, to give motion to the shaft or to obtain motion from it.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rigid thing turning about an axis, used for transmitting and modifying force and motion}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|poluga|alt=pòluga|f}}
* Czech: [[páka]] {{f}}
* Dutch: [[hendel]] 
* French: [[levier]] {{m}}
* German: [[Hebel]] {{m}}
* Italian: [[leva]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[dźwignia]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: [[alavanca]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[рычаг]] (ryčág) {{m}}
* Serbian: [[poluga]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[hefboom]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[hefboom]] {{m}}
* [[Ido]]: [[levero]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|levers|levering|levered|levered}}

# To move with a [[lever]].
#: ''With great effort and a big crowbar I managed to '''lever''' the beam off the floor.''

====Derived terms====
* [[Compound lever]]: a machine consisting of two or more levers acting upon each other.
* [[Lever escapement]]: See [[escapement]].
* [[Lever jack]]: See [[Jack]]
* [[Lever watch]]: a watch having a vibrating lever to connect the action of the escape wheel with that of the balance.
* [[Universal lever]]: a machine formed by a combination of a lever with the wheel and axle, in such a manner as to convert the reciprocating motion of the lever into a continued rectilinear motion of some body to which the power is applied.

[[Category:Pronunciations wildly different across the pond]]
[[Category:Simple machines]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
'''lever'''

# [[liver]]

[[Category:Danish nouns]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''lever'''

# [[liver]]

===Verb===
'''lever'''

# simple present 1st person singular of [[leveren]]
# imperative of [[leveren]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|levo#Latin|levare|to elevate}} < {{term|levis||light, not heavy}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-lever.ogg|audio}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb}}

# to [[raise]], to [[lift]]

====Conjugation====
{{fr-conj-e-er|l|v}}

====Antonyms====
* [[baisser]]

====Related terms====
* [[levage]]
* [[levant]]
* [[levé]]
* [[se lever]]
* [[lever du soleil]]
* [[lève-tard]]
* [[lève-tôt]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
{{hu-prefix|le|ver}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈlɛvɛr/|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|le|ver}}

===Verb===
{{infl|hu|verb}}

# [[knock down]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|lēver}}

# {{conjugation of|[[levo#Latin|lēvō]]||1|s|pres|pass|sub}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-m2}}

# [[liver]]

===Verb===
'''lever'''

# ''present tense'' of [[leve]]

[[Category:Norwegian verb forms]]

----

==Swedish==
{{sv-noun|gender=Common|lever|levern|levrar|levrarna|levers|leverns|levrars|levrarnas}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-lever.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
'''lever'''

# [[liver]]

===Verb===
'''lever'''

# ''present tense'' of [[leva]]

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]
[[Category:Swedish verb forms]]

[[de:lever]]
[[et:lever]]
[[el:lever]]
[[es:lever]]
[[fr:lever]]
[[fy:lever]]
[[gl:lever]]
[[ko:lever]]
[[hy:lever]]
[[io:lever]]
[[id:lever]]
[[it:lever]]
[[ku:lever]]
[[hu:lever]]
[[nl:lever]]
[[ja:lever]]
[[nds:lever]]
[[pl:lever]]
[[pt:lever]]
[[ro:lever]]
[[ru:lever]]
[[fi:lever]]
[[ta:lever]]
[[te:lever]]
[[vi:lever]]
[[tr:lever]]
[[zh:lever]]