{{also|Appendix:Variations of "li"}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/liː/}}
*: {{rhymes|iː}}

===Etymology 1===
From Chinese '''[[里]]''' ([[lǐ]]).

====Noun====
{{en-noun|li}}

# A traditional [[Chinese]] [[unit]] of [[distance]], now standardized to 500 [[metre]]s.

=====Translations=====
* Chinese: [[里]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|li}}
* French: {{t+|fr|li|m}}

===Etymology 2===
From Chinese '''[[市厘]]''' ([[lí]]).

====Noun====
{{en-noun|li}}

# A traditional Chinese unit of weight, equal to one-thousandth of a [[liang]], or fifty [[milligrams]].

===Etymology 3===
From Chinese '''[[禮]]''' ([[lǐ]]).

====Noun====
{{en-noun|li}}

# {{context|Chinese philosophy}} A meaningful [[ceremony]] or [[ritual]]; [[etiquette]], [[behaviour]].

===Etymology 4===
From Chinese '''[[鬲]]''' ([[lì]]).

====Noun====
{{en-noun|li}}

# An ancient Chinese [[cauldron]] having three hollow legs.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[IL#English|IL]]}} 

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Albanian==

===Noun===
'''li''' {{f}}

# [[smallpox]].

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''li'''

# li (''Chinese unit of distance'').

----

==Esperanto==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/li/|lang=eo}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|eo|pronoun|accusative|lin}}

# (''personal pronoun'') [[he]], [[him]].

{{eo BRO|1}}

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/li/}}, {{SAMPA|/li/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# li (''Chinese unit of distance'').

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[il#French|il]]}} 

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ht|pronoun}}

# [[he]]
# [[him]]
# [[she]]
# [[her]]
# [[it]]

----

==Ido==
===Pronoun===
{{io-pron}}
# [[they]]

----

==Interlingue==
===Article===
{{infl|ie|article}}
#[[the]]

----

==Italian==

===Pronunciation===
*{{homophones|lì}}

===Pronoun===
'''li'''

# [[them]].

====Related terms====
* [[gli]]
* [[i#Italian|i]]
* [[le#Italian|le]]
* [[loro]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[il#Italian|il]]}} 

----

==Kurdish==

===Preposition===
{{infl|ku|preposition}}

# [[in]]: <br>''li Kurdistanê'' (in Kurdistan)
# '''li ser''': [[on]]: <br>''li ser maseyê'' (on the table)


----

==Lojban==

===Cmavo===
{{jbo-cmavo}}

# indicates that the next word is a number used as a [[sumti]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Preposition===
{{cmn-prep|p|pin=lǐ|pint=li3|tra=裏|sim=里}}

# [[in]]; [[inside]]
#:''Simplified: [[这]][[间]][[医院]]'''[[里]]'''[[有]][[很]][[多]][[病人]]。''
#:''Traditional: [[這]][[間]][[醫院]]'''[[裡]]'''[[有]][[很]][[多]][[病人]]。''
#:''[[zhe|zhè]] [[jian|jiān]] [[yiyuan|yīyuàn]] '''[[li|lǐ]]''' [[you|yǒu]] [[hen|hěn]] [[duo|duō]] [[bingren|bìngrén]].'' 
#::There are many patients '''in''' this hospital.

====Derived terms====
* [[xinli|xīnli]]

===Noun===
{{infl|cmn|noun|Pinyin|lì|tra&sim|力}}

# {{physics|lang=cmn}} [[force]]

===See also===
* [[-li]]

===Pinyin===
{{cmn-alt-pinyin|li|li0|li5}}

# [[哧]]:
# [[瑿]]: a [[black]] [[stone]] like [[jade]]; [[jet]]

===Pinyin syllable===
'''li'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|[[lī]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|[[lí]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|[[lǐ]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|[[lì]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Miskito==

===Noun===
{{infl|miq|noun}}

# [[water]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|no}} {{term|hlíð|lang=non}}

===Pronunciation===
{{rfp|Norwegian|Norwegian}}
{{rfap|Norwegian|Norwegian}}

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun}}

# A sloping [[mountainside]] or [[hillside]] covered with [[grass]] or [[forest]].

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m1|nb-class2=f1|nn-class=f1}}

====References====
*{{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet}}
*{{R:Ordnett}}

----

==Old French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fro}} {{term|ille||that|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/li/|lang=fro}}

===Article===
{{infl|fro|article}}

# [[the]] (masculine nominative singular and plural definite article)
#:'''circa 1170''', {{w|Chrétien de Troyes}}, ''[[s:fr:Érec et Énide|Érec et Énide]]'':
#::'''Li''' rois respont: "N'est pas mançonge"
#:::The king replied "this is no lie"

====Inflection====
{{fro-definite-article}}

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fro|pronoun}}

# third-person singular indirect object pronoun; to him, to her, to it

====Descendants====
* French: [[le#French|le]], [[lui#French|lui]]

----

==Polish==

===Suffix===
'''li'''

# (marks the [[past tense]] when added to the end of a verb).

----

==Romanian==

===Pronoun===
'''li''' (''dative form of '''[[ele]]'''; form of '''[[le#Romanian|le]]''')

# to [[them]]

====Usage notes====
This word is used when ''le'' (which is dative) is combined with the following accusatives:
* '''[[îl]]''' (''the accusative of [[el]], contracted as '''[[li-l]]''''')
* '''[[îi]]''' (''the accusative of [[ei]], contracted as '''[[li-i]]''''')
* '''[[le]]''' (''the accusative of [[ele]]'')
* '''[[se]]''' (''the reflexive accusative of all third-person pronouns'')

====See also====
* [[vi]]
* [[ni]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|li|lang=sh}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/li/|lang=sh}}

===Particle===
{{sh-particle|r|ли}}

# question-forming interrogative particle
#: ''da li me poznaješ?'' — do you know me?
#: ''jesi li stigao na odredište?'' — did you reach the destination?
#: ''jeste li ga vid(j)eli'' — have you seen him?
#: ''gd(j)e li se samo nalazimo?'' — where could we be?
#: ''kad li će doći?'' — when will they come?
#: ''je li?'' — Is it? (Is that so? Isn't that so?)
# used as conjunction with {{term|da|lang=sh}}
#: ''da li'' — whether
#: ''nemam pojma da li je došao'' — I have no idea if he came
# (as a conjunction) [[if]]
#: ''pokušaš li me napasti, ja ću ti uzvratiti'' — if you try to attack me, I'll retaliate
# used as an emphatic intensifier
#: ''a sn(ijeg) pada li pada'' — the snow just keep falling on and on...
#: ''d(ij)ete plače li plače'' — the child just keeps crying

[[Category:Serbo-Croatian interrogative particles]]
----

==Sicilian==

===Article===
'''li''' {{m}}, {{f}} ''pl.''

# [[the]]

{|style="background-color:#FFFAFA; color: #8B795E; text-align:center; border: 1px solid #EEE9BF; font-size:11px; line-height:14px; font-stretch:extra-expanded;" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1"
|- style="background-color:#EEE9BF; "
|colspan=3|'''The [[Sicilian]] Definite Article'''
|-
|colspan=1 style="background-color:#EEE9BF;"|
|colspan=1 style="background-color:#EEE9BF;"|'''Masculine'''
|colspan=1 style="background-color:#EEE9BF;"|'''Feminine'''
|-
|colspan=1 style="background-color:#EEE9BF;"|'''Singular'''
| [[lu#Sicilian|lu]], [[û#Sicilian|û]]
| [[la#Sicilian|la]], [[â#Sicilian|â]]
|-
|colspan=1 style="background-color:#EEE9BF;"|'''Plural'''
| [[li]], [[î#Sicilian|î]]
| [[li]], [[î#Sicilian|î]]
|}

[[Category:Sicilian articles]]

[[af:li]]
[[br:li]]
[[el:li]]
[[es:li]]
[[eo:li]]
[[fo:li]]
[[fr:li]]
[[gl:li]]
[[ko:li]]
[[io:li]]
[[ie:li]]
[[it:li]]
[[ku:li]]
[[lt:li]]
[[hu:li]]
[[nl:li]]
[[ja:li]]
[[no:li]]
[[oc:li]]
[[pl:li]]
[[pt:li]]
[[ru:li]]
[[scn:li]]
[[sl:li]]
[[fi:li]]
[[sv:li]]
[[tr:li]]
[[vi:li]]
[[vo:li]]
[[wa:li]]
[[zh:li]]