{{also|Libertarian|libertarían}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|liberty|arian}}, dating from 1789.
{{rel-top|sense changes}}
{{m|fr|libertaire||anarchist}} formed from {{m|fr|liberté||freedom}}, from Latin {{m|la|libertas}} and the suffix {{m|fr|-aire}}, from Latin {{m|la|-arius}}.

The word first appeared in English in 1789 in [[w:William Belsham|William Belsham]]'s ''[https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=fg4WAAAAYAAJ Essays].'' This was contrasted with [[necessitarian]], in the context of [[w:free will|free will]], and was not used in the current sense.

The French word is first attested in a letter in May 1857 by French
[[w:Anarchist communism|anarcho-communist]] [[w:Joseph Déjacque|Joseph Déjacque]] to anarchist philosopher [[w:Pierre-Joseph Proudhon|Pierre-Joseph Proudhon]], reading:<ref>{{cite-web|author=Joseph Déjacque|authorlink=Joseph Déjacque|title=De l'être-humain mâle et femelle: Lettre à P.J. Proudhon|url=http://joseph.dejacque.free.fr/ecrits/lettreapjp.htm|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20160303175652/http://joseph.dejacque.free.fr/ecrits/lettreapjp.htm|archivedate=3 March 2016|publisher=Le Libertaire: Journal du Mouvement Social|month=May|year=1857}}.</ref>
: “Anarchiste juste-milieu, libéral et non LIBERTAIRE…”
In translation:
: “A centrist anarchist, liberal and not LIBERTARIAN…”
hence the sense is of “extreme [[left-wing]]”.

The French term was popularized as a euphemism for [[anarchist]] in the 1890s, following the [[w:lois scélérates|lois scélérates]], when anarchist publications were banned by law in France.

The sense of “pro-property individualist” developed in the US in the 1940s, and was popularized in the 1950s. In the 1940s, [[w:Leonard Read|Leonard Read]] began calling himself “libertarian” to contrast with “classical liberal”.<ref>{{cite-book|author=David Boaz|authorlink=David Boaz|chapter=A Note on Labels: Why ‘Libertarian’?|title=Libertarianism: A Primer|url=http://www.libertarianism.org/ex-3.html|archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20121210200655/http://www.libertarianism.org/ex-3.html|archivedate=10 December 2012|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher=[[w:Free Press (publisher)|Free Press]]|year=1997|isbn=978-0-684-83198-5}}.</ref> In 1955, [[w:Dean Russell|Dean Russell]] also promoted use of the word, writing: “Let those of us who love liberty trademark and reserve for our own use the good and honorable word ‘libertarian’.”<ref>{{cite-journal|author=Dean Russell|title=Who is a Libertarian?|url=http://www.boogieonline.com/revolution/politics/name.html|journal=[[w:The Freeman|Ideas on Liberty]] (reproduced on Revolution)|publisher={{w|Foundation for Economic Education}}|month=May|year=1955}}.</ref>
{{rel-bottom}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˌlɪbəˈtɛəɹjən/|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|li|ber|ta|rian|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One who advocates liberty, either generally or in relation to a specific issue.
#: {{ux|en|civil '''libertarian'''}} (one who favors [[civil liberties]])
# {{lb|en|chiefly|US}} A believer in a political doctrine that emphasizes individual liberty and a lack of governmental regulation, intervention, and oversight both in matters of the economy (‘free market’) and in personal behavior where no one’s rights are being violated or threatened; ''also'', a ‘classical liberal’, akin to an ‘[[anarcho-capitalist]]’.
# {{lb|en|chiefly|UK|Ireland}} A [[left-libertarian]], an [[antiauthoritarian]] believer in both individual freedom and [[social justice]] (social equality and {{w|mutual aid}}), such as a [[social anarchist]]<!--see WP-->.
#* '''1973''' Eugene Lunn, ''Prophet of Community: The Romantic Socialism of Gustav Landauer'' (Univ. of California Press) page 200:
#*: Landauer's reorientation of anarchist theory and practice in the direction of idealist and völkisch thought was often incomprehensible to the more traditional '''libertarians''', and in the period of the second ''Sozialist'' Landauer no longer felt entirely comfortable with the simple "anarchist" label. For Landauer anarchism and socialism had always been different expressions of the same view; now he regarded anarchism as "merely the negative side of what is positively called socialism."
#* '''2009''' Peter Marshall, ''Demanding the Impossible: A History of Anarchism'', page 641:
#*: For a long time, '''libertarian''' was interchangeable in France with anarchist but in recent years, its meaning has become more ambivalent. Some anarchists like David Guérin will call themselves 'libertarian socialists', partly to avoid the negative overtones still associated with anarchism, and partly to stress the place of anarchism with the socialist tradition. Even Marxists of the New Left like E. P. Thompson call themselves ''''libertarian'''' to distinguish themselves from those authoritarian socialists and communists who believe in revolutionary dictatorship and vanguard parties.
#* '''2012''' Wilbur R. Miller, ''The Social History of Crime and Punishment in America: An Encyclopedia'' (SAGE Publications) page 1008:
#*: While anarchism and socialist '''libertarians''' have a rich history of revolutionary thinkers ranging from Emma Goldman to George Orwell, the best-known socialist '''libertarian''' thinker of today is probably Noam Chomsky.
# {{lb|en|philosophy}} A believer in the freedom of thinking beings to choose their own destiny, ''i.e.'' a believer in [[free will]] as opposed to those who believe the future is predetermined.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|A person in favor of freedom}} {{l|en|eleutheromaniac}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A person in favor of freedom}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|自由意志主義者|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|自由意志主义者|tr=zìyóu yìzhì zhǔyìzhě|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|行動自由論者|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|行动自由论者|tr=xíngdòng zìyóu lùnzhě|sc=Hani}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|liberecano}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|libertaristi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libertaire|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ლიბერტარიანელი}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having the [[belief]]s of libertarians; having a [[relative]] [[tendency]] towards [[liberty]].
#* {{quote-journal|lang=en|date=2012-01
|author=Steven Sloman
|title=The Battle Between Intuition and Deliberation
|volume=100|issue=1|page=74
|magazine=[[w:American Scientist|American Scientist]]
|url=http://www.americanscientist.org/bookshelf/pub/the-battle-between-intuition-and-deliberation
|passage='''Libertarian''' paternalism is the view that, because the way options are presented to citizens affects what they choose, society should present options in a way that “nudges” our intuitive selves to make choices that are more consistent with what our more deliberative selves would have chosen if they were in control.}}
#* ''He has '''libertarian''' views.''
#* ''A '''libertarian''' capitalist.''
# {{lb|en|dated}} Relating to [[liberty]], or to the doctrine of free will, as opposed to the doctrine of necessity. <!--Webster 1913-->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Having the beliefs of libertarians}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|自由|alt=自由的|tr=zìyóu de|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|自由論者|alt=自由論者的|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|自由论者|alt=自由论者的|tr=zìyóu lùnzhě de|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libertaire|m|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ლიბერტარიანული}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite|Libertarianism}}
* {{pedialite|Anarchism}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:en:Anarchism]]
[[Category:en:People]]
[[Category:en:Politics]]