{{also|Liberal|libéral}}
==English==

===Etymology===
The adjective is from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|liberal|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|liberalis||befitting a freeman|lang=la}}, from {{m|la|liber||free}}; it is attested since the 14th century. The noun is first attested in the 1800s.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|lĭ'brəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈlɪbɹəl/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|lĭ'bərəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈlɪbəɹəl/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-liberal.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|now|_|rare|_|outside of set phrases|lang=en}} Pertaining to those arts and sciences the study of which was considered "worthy of a free man" (as opposed to {{term|servile|lang=en}}, {{term|lang=en|vocational}}, {{term|mechanical|lang=en}}); [[worthy]], befitting a gentleman.
#* '''1983''', David Leslie Wagner, ''The Seven '''liberal''' arts in the Middle Ages''
#* '''1997''', Gordon D. Morgan, ''Toward an American Sociology: Questioning the European Construct'' (ISBN 0275949990), page 45:
#*: Americans remain enamored with Europe's ability to produce the consequential thought for America. It was the same in nearly every '''liberal''' field. Education sought its roots in such Europeans as Froebel, Frobenius, and Rousseau. Political science tried to connect to Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, Nietzsche, Machiavelli, and Otto von Bismarck, for instance. Economics copied the thought of Adam Smith, {{...}}
#* '''2008''', Donal G. Mulcahy, ''The Educated Person: Toward a New Paradigm for Liberal Education'' (ISBN 0742561224)
#: {{usex|He had a full education studying the '''liberal''' arts.|lang=en}}
# [[generous|Generous]], willing to give unsparingly.
#* '''2005''', John Gardner, ''Assessment and Learning'' (ISBN 141291051X), page 50:
#*: When he shows improvement she is '''liberal''' with her praise and then moves on to the next set of skills to be learnt.
#* '''2007''', Helena Page Schrader, ''The English Templar'' (ISBN 0595432719), page 309:
#*: Queen Isabella was already being called Santa Isabella by many of her subjects because she was '''liberal''' with her alms.
#* '''2010''', Simon Guillebaud, ''More Than Conquerors: A Call to Radical Discipleship'' (ISBN 1854249738), page 142:
#*: Was it because the believers were so '''liberal''' with their possessions that God was so '''liberal''' with his grace?
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-06-14|author={{w|Jonathan Freedland}}
|volume=189|issue=1|page=18|magazine={{w|The Guardian Weekly}}
|title=[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2013/jun/07/obama-apple-google-facebook-tainted-prism Obama's once hip brand is now tainted]
|passage=Now we are '''liberal''' with our innermost secrets, spraying them into the public ether with a generosity our forebears could not have imagined. Where we once sent love letters in a sealed envelope, or stuck photographs of our children in a family album, now such private material is despatched to servers and clouds operated by people we don't know and will never meet.}}
#: {{usex|He was '''liberal''' with his compliments.|lang=en}}
# [[ample|Ample]], [[abundant]]; [[generous]] in quantity.
#* '''1896''', in ''Ice and refrigeration'', volume 11, page 93:
#*: For this reason a '''liberal''' amount of piping should be used. If a '''liberal''' supply of piping is provided at first, the first cost will of course be greater, but the extra expenditure is called for but once.
#* '''2009''', R. Furman Kenney, ''Chesterville: The Village at the End of the Road'' (ISBN 1438960344), page 102:
#*: The result was usually that such helpers got a '''liberal''' sprinkling of mud over their clothing.
#* '''2011''', Marlene Perez, ''Dead Is Not an Option'' (ISBN 0547345933), page 37:
#*: Rose put a steaming cup of mint tea in front of me and spooned a '''liberal''' helping of honey into it.
#: {{usex|Add a '''liberal''' sprinkling of salt.|lang=en}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[unrestrained|Unrestrained]], [[licentious]].
#* '''1599''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[w:Much Ado About Nothing|Much Ado About Nothing]]'', [[s:Much Ado About Nothing (Shakespeare)|Act 4 Scene 1]]
#*: Myself, my brother, and this grieved count,
#*: Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night,
#*: Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window;
#*: Who hath indeed, most like a '''liberal''' villain,
#*: Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
#*: A thousand times in secret.
# Widely open to new ideas, willing to depart from established opinions or conventions; [[permissive]].
#: {{usex|Her parents had '''liberal''' ideas about child-rearing.|lang=en}}
# {{context|politics|lang=en}} Open to political or social changes and [[reforms]] associated with either classical or modern liberalism.
#: ''Younger people tend to be more '''liberal''' than older people.''

====Antonyms====
* [[conservative]]

====Hyponyms====
* [[small-l liberal]]

====Derived terms====
* [[liberal arts]]
* [[Liberal]]
* [[Liberal Democrat]]
* [[Liberal Party]]

====Related terms====
* [[liberalism]]
* [[liberalist]]
* [[liberate]]
* [[liberation]]
* [[libertarian]]
* [[liberty]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|pertaining to the arts the study of which is considered worthy of a free man}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vapaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libéral|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|generous, willing to give unsparingly}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|avokätinen}}, {{t+|fi|antelias}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libéral|m}}, {{t+|fr|large|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ще́дрый}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ample, abundant, generous in quantity}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|runsas}}
* French: {{t+|fr|généreux|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γενναιόδωρος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kaimarire}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|оби́льный}}, {{t+|ru|ще́дрый}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|pailt-làmhach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: unrestrained, licentious}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|estoton}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|widely open to new ideas, willing to depart from established opinions, conventions etc}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vrijzinnig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liberaali}}, {{t|fi|vapaamielinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|large|m|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|либера́льный}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|open to political or social reforms}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liberaali}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libéral|m}}, {{t+|fr|[[de]] [[gauche]]}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|либера́льный}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
; These glosses don't correspond to senses: 
{{trans-top|political description, following liberalism}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|liberaal}}
* Greek: {{t-check|el|φιλελεύθερος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|liberal|m|n}}, {{t|ro|liberală|f}}
* Russian: {{t-check|ru|либера́льный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-check|gd|libearalach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|open-minded, favoring social freedom; permissive}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|open}}, {{t+|nl|liberaal}}
* Greek: {{t-check|el|ελευθέριος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|liberal|m|n}}
* Russian: {{t-check|ru|либера́льный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-check|gd|libearalach}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|politically liberal}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|libertaire|m|f}}
* Greek: {{t-check|el|φιλελεύθερος|m}}
* Polish: {{t-check|pl|liberalny|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|liberal|m|n}}
* Russian: {{t-check|ru|либера́льный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-check|gd|libearalach}}
* Yiddish: {{t-check|yi|ליבעראַל|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Catalan: {{t-check|ca|liberal}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|liberala}}
* Estonian: {{t-check|et|liberaalne}}
* German: {{t+check|de|liberal}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|liberal}}, {{t+check|id|bebas}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|liberale}}
* Japanese: {{t-check|ja|リベラル|tr=riberaru|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+check|ja|自由|tr=[[じゆう]], jiyū|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+check|ko|자유|sc=Kore}}
* Romanian: {{t+check|ro|liberal|m|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|liberal}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One with liberal views, supporting individual liberty (see [[w:liberalism|Wikipedia's article on Liberalism]]).
# {{context|US|lang=en}} Someone [[left-wing]]; one with a left-wing ideology.
# A supporter of any of several liberal parties.
# {{context|UK|lang=en}} One who favors individual voting rights, human and civil rights, and [[laissez-faire]] markets {{qualifier|also called "classical liberal"; compare [[libertarian]]}}.

====Coordinate terms====
* [[moderate]], [[conservative]], [[progressive]], [[libertarian]], [[centrist]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one with liberal views, supporting individual liberty}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|liberulo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liberaali}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libéral|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|либера́л|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|libearalach|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top-also|someone left-wing|progressive|left-winger}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vasemmistolainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|libearalach|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top-also|supporter of a liberal party|progressive}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liberaali}}
* French: {{t+|fr|libéral}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φιλελεύθερος|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|либера́л|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|libearalach|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who favors individual voting rights, human and civil rights, individual gun rights and laissez-faire markets}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φιλελεύθερος|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|libearalach|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|libertario|m}}, {{t|es|libertaria|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

===Anagrams===
* [[Braille#English|Braille]]

----

==Catalan==

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|mf}}

# {{l|en|liberal}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˌlibəˈʁaːl/|/ˌlɪ-/|lang=de}}

===Adjective===
{{de-adj|liberaler|liberalsten}}

# [[liberal]]; [[permissive]]; allowing personal freedoms
#: ''Seine Eltern waren streng katholische Kirchgänger, aber '''liberal''' gegenüber den Kindern.''
#:: His parents were strict Catholic church-goers, but were '''liberal''' towards their children.
# {{lb|de|politics}} [[liberal]]; [[libertarian]] {{i|see usage notes below}}
#: ''Die FDP ist die wichtigste '''liberale''' Partei in Deutschland.''
#:: The [[w:FDP|FDP]] is Germany’s most important '''liberal''' party.

====Usage notes====
* The most prominent, though not the only, association with political liberalism in German-speaking Europe is support for [[free market]] economy and rejection of state [[interventionism]]. Both of these policies regularly put liberals in sharp opposition to the [[Marxism]]-based left. Liberal parties most often represent the centre or even the centre-right of the political spectrum.

====Declension====
{{de-decl-adj|liberal|liberaler|liberalst}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|de|Liberalismus}}

----

==Old French==

===Adjective===
{{head|fro|adjective|g=m}}

# appropriate for a [[free]] person
# [[generous]]; [[giving]]

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|liberal}} {{qualifier|borrowed}}
* French: {{l|fr|libéral}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|pt}} {{term|liberalis||befitting a freeman|lang=la}}, from {{m|la|liber||free}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|PT}} {{IPA|/li.βɨ.ˈɾaɫ/|lang=pt}}
* {{hyphenation|li|be|ral|lang=pt}}

===Adjective===
{{pt-adj|libera|l}}

# [[#English|liberal]], [[generous]], [[tolerant]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{term|lȉberālan|lang=sh}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/liběraːl/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|li|be|ral|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=libèrāl|r|либерал|либѐра̄л}}

# {{l|en|liberal}}

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|libèrāl|liberali
|liberála|liberala
|liberalu|liberalima
|liberala|liberale
|liberale|liberali
|liberalu|liberalima
|liberalom|liberalima
}}

===References===
* {{R:sh:HJP|e19gWBY%3D}}

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|pl=liberales}}

# {{l|en|liberal}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-liberal.ogg|Audio|lang=sv}}

===Adjective===
{{head|sv|adjective}}

# {{l|en|liberal}}

====Declension====
{{sv-adj-reg}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# a {{l|en|liberal}}

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}

[[cs:liberal]]
[[cy:liberal]]
[[de:liberal]]
[[et:liberal]]
[[el:liberal]]
[[fa:liberal]]
[[fr:liberal]]
[[gl:liberal]]
[[ko:liberal]]
[[hy:liberal]]
[[io:liberal]]
[[id:liberal]]
[[it:liberal]]
[[kn:liberal]]
[[kk:liberal]]
[[ku:liberal]]
[[li:liberal]]
[[hu:liberal]]
[[mg:liberal]]
[[ml:liberal]]
[[my:liberal]]
[[nl:liberal]]
[[ja:liberal]]
[[uz:liberal]]
[[pl:liberal]]
[[pt:liberal]]
[[ro:liberal]]
[[ru:liberal]]
[[sq:liberal]]
[[simple:liberal]]
[[sh:liberal]]
[[fi:liberal]]
[[sv:liberal]]
[[tl:liberal]]
[[ta:liberal]]
[[te:liberal]]
[[th:liberal]]
[[chr:liberal]]
[[tr:liberal]]
[[vi:liberal]]
[[zh:liberal]]