==English==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|en|fr|liberticide}}, coined around the time of the French Revolution. Equivalent to {{suffix|en|liberty|cide}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Causing the destruction of [[liberty]]; [[oppressive]], [[liberticidal]]
#* '''1798''', translation of [[w:Madame Roland|Madame Roland]], ''An Appeal to Impartial Posterity'', First American Edition—Corrected, Volume I, A. Van Hook (publisher), [http://books.google.com/books?id=adsRAAAAIAAJ&pg=RA1-PA152&dq=liberticide pages 151–152]:
#*: {{...}} by aſſembling at her houſe, in ſecret council, the principal chiefs of that conſpiracy, and by keeping up a correſpondence tending to facilitate their '''liberticide''' deſigns.
#* '''1811''' January 26, [[w:Thomas Jefferson|Thomas Jefferson]], letter to M. D. Destutt Tracy, in [[w:Thomas Jefferson Randolph|Thomas Jefferson Randolph]] (editor), ''Memoirs, Correspondence, and Private Papers of Thomas Jefferson'', Volume IV, Henry Colburn and Richard Bentley (publishers, 1829), [http://books.google.com/books?id=E_5sgeh0NzkC&pg=PA166&dq=liberticide page 166]:
#*: The conservative body you propose might be so constituted, as, while it would be an admirable sedative in a variety of smaller cases, might also be a valuable sentinel and check on the '''liberticide''' views of an ambitious individual.
#* '''1823''', ''Public Characters of All Nations'', Volume II, Sir Richard Phillips and Co. (publisher), [http://books.google.com/books?id=0LIBAAAAYAAJ&pg=RA2-PA502&dq=liberticide page 502]:
#*: M. Labriffe is a member of the Chamber of Deputies, and has, of course, voted for the '''liberticide''' laws.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|causing the destruction of liberty}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|lliberticida|m|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|liberticide|m|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|liberticida|m|f}}
* German: {{t|de|freiheitsfeindlich}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|liberticida|m|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|liberticida|m|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|liberticida}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# The destruction of liberty.
#* '''1819''', “[[w:Ouida|Ouida]]” (pseudonym), “An Impeachment of Modern Italy”, in ''The American Monthly Review of Reviews'', Volume 18, Number 5 (1819 November), [http://books.google.com/books?id=hWPrsFidW0AC&pg=PA557&dq=liberticide page 557]:
#*: All that has been done by the state since the revolt of May is '''liberticide''' of the most violent character.
#* '''1976''', [[w:Lance Banning|Lance Banning]], “Jeffersonian Ideology and the French Revolution: A Question of '''Liberticide''' at Home”, in ''Studies in Burke and His Time'', Volume 17, Number 1,<sup >[http://books.google.com/books?id=u5ghAQAAIAAJ ]</sup> Texas Tech Press, page 20:
#*: In the hands of a designing executive, a standing army was the classic instrument of '''liberticide'''.
#* '''1981''', [[w:Thomas Szasz|Thomas Szasz]], quoted in Margot Joan Fromer, ''Ethical Issues in Health Care'',<sup >[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=IGFtAAAAMAAJ ]</sup> Mosby, {{ISBN|9780801617287}}, page 399:
#*: In language and logic we are the prisoners of our premises, just as in politics and law we are prisoners of our rules.<!-- Elsewhere, “rules” is given as “rulers”, but “rules” seems more likely, especially in the context of law and logic. --> Hence we had better pick them well. For if suicide is an illness because it terminates in death, and if the prevention of death by any means necessary is the physician’s therapeutic mandate, then the proper remedy for suicide is '''liberticide'''.
# One who causes the destruction of liberty.
#* '''1821''', [[w:Percy Bysshe Shelley|Percy Bysshe Shelley]], "[[wikisource:Adonais|Adonais]]":
#*: Blind, old, and lonely, when his country's pride, / The priest, the slave, and the '''liberticide''' / Trampled and mocked with many a loathed rite / Of lust and blood; he went, unterrified, /

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the destruction of liberty}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|lliberticidi|m}}
* French: {{t+|fr|liberticide|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|liberticidio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|liberticidio}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|liberticídio|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|liberticidio|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who causes the destruction of liberty}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|lliberticida|m|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|liberticide|m|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|liberticida|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|liberticida |m|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|liberticida|m|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|liberticida|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
1791. From {{af|fr|liberté|-cide}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|fr|LL-Q150 (fra)-WikiLucas00-liberticide.wav|France (Lyon)}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj}}

# {{l|en|liberticide}}, {{l|en|liberticidal}}
#* {{quote-book|fr|author={{w|Georges Bernanos}}|title=Dialogues des Carmélites|year=c. 1948|passage=Le tribunal prononce la condamnation à mort des seize carmélites {{...}} « pour avoir formé des conciliabules contre-révolutionnaires, entretenu des correspondances fanatiques et conservé des écrits '''liberticides'''.»|translation=The court pronounces the death sentence of the sixteen Carmelites {{...}} "for having formed counter-revolutionary conciliabules, for having maintained fanatical correspondences and possessing '''liberticidal''' writings.}}
#* {{quote-web|fr|work=Le Monde|date=2020-09-29|title=En Europe, l’exaspération grandit face aux mesures anti-Covid 19|url=https://www.lemonde.fr/international/article/2020/09/29/en-europe-l-exasperation-grandit-face-aux-mesures-anti-covid-19_6053989_3210.html|passage=Si la peur persistante de la pandémie, qui a fait à ce jour plus d’un million de morts dans le monde, contribue globalement au respect des dispositifs visant à freiner sa propagation, partout en Europe des mouvements antimasque et des manifestations d’exaspération sont apparus contre les actions des gouvernements, jugées tantôt '''liberticides''', tantôt incohérentes.}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|mfbysense}}

# {{l|en|liberticide}} {{gloss|one who causes the destruction of liberty}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|liberticide}} {{gloss|the destruction of liberty}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|crédibilité}}

----

==Italian==

===Pronunciation===
{{it-pr|liberticìde}}

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form}}

# {{feminine plural of|it|liberticida}}