{{wikipedia}}
{{see|LIE|liē|liě|liè|lié}}
==English==

{{rank|turning|village|quickly|814|lie|supposed|original|provide}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/laɪ̯/}}
* {{SAMPA|/laI_^/}}
* {{audio|en-us-lie.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪ}}

====Homophones====
* [[lye]]
* [[lai]]

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}} {{term|licgan}}, from Germanic *{{term||ligjan-}}, from Indo-European *{{term||legh-}}.  Cognate with Dutch {{term|liggen}}, German {{term|liegen}}, Swedish {{term|ligga}}; and with Latin {{term|lectus||bed}}, Irish {{term|luighe}}, Russian {{term|лежать}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lies|lying|lay|lain}}

# {{intransitive}} To be in a [[horizontal]] [[position]].
# {{intransitive}} To be placed or situated.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[lie down]] (in bed)
* [[lie back]] (sit back).

=====Related terms=====
* [[lier]]  lying

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|be in horizontal position}}
* Chinese: [[躺]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|ležet}}
* Danish: [[ligge]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|liggen}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[mlɔ anyi]]
* Filipino: [[humiga]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se coucher}}
* German: {{t+|de|liegen}}
* Greek: [[κείτομαι]] (kítome)
* Hebrew: [[לשכב]] (Lish'kav)
* Icelandic: [[Liggja]]
* [[Ido]]: [[jacar]]
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|baring|alt=berbaring|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|baring|alt=membaringkan|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[giacere]], essere [[disteso]]
* Japanese: [[横になる]] ([[よこになる]], yoko ni naru)
* Korean: [[놓이다]] (nohIda, noida)
* Latin: {{t-|la|iacere|alt=iacēre}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[കിടക്കുക]] (kitakkuka)
* Navajo: [[sitą́]] (a slender stiff object lies)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ligge}}
* Old English: {{t-|ang|licgan|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|leżeć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|deitar}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[laigh]]
* Slovak: [[ležať]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|ležati}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|echarse}}, {{t-|es|yacer}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ligga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be situated}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|ležet}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|olla}}, {{t+|fi|sijaita}}
* German: {{t+|de|liegen}}
* Old English: [[licġan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[jazer]]
* Spanish: [[estar]] [[ubicado]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ligga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{OE.}} {{term|leogan|lēoġan}}, from Germanic.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lies|lying|lied}}

# {{intransitive}} To give [[false]] [[information]] [[intentional]]ly.
# {{intransitive}} To [[convey]] a [[false]] [[image]] or [[impression]].
#: ''Photos often '''lie'''.''

=====Related terms=====
* [[liar]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|tell an untruth}}
* Chinese: [[說謊]], [[说谎]] (shuōhuǎng)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|lhát}}
* Danish: [[lyve]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|liegen}}
* Estonian: [[valetama]]
* [[Ewe]]: [[da alakpa]], [[ka aʋatso]]
* Filipino: [[magsinungaling]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|valehdella}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mentir}}
* German: [[lügen]] (1, 2), [[täuschen]] (2)
* Greek: {{t+|el|ψεύδομαι|tr=psevdome|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[לשקר]] (Le'sha'ker)
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|ljúga}}
* [[Ido]]: [[mentiar]]
* Indonesian:
** [[bohong]], [[bohong|berbohong]], [[bohong|membohongi]]
** [[dusta]], [[dusta|berdusta]], [[dusta|mendustai]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mentire}}
* Japanese: [[嘘を吐く]] ([[うそをつく]], usowotsuku)
* Korean: [[거짓말하다]] geojitmal hada
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[درۆ کردن]]}}, {{KUchar|[[درۆ گوتن]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|mentiri}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[നുണ]] (nuNa), [[കള്ളം]] (kaLLam)
* [[Northern Sami]]: [[gielistit]]
* Norwegian: [[lyve]], [[ljuge]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kłamać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mentir}}
* Russian: [[лгать]] (lgat’)
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|lagati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mentir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ljuga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Old English ''[[lyġe]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An intentionally [[false]] [[statement]]; a [[falsehood]].
# A statement intended to deceive, even if literally true; a [[half-truth]]

===Etymology 4===
From the verb ''lie''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{golf}} The terrain and conditions surrounding the ball before it is struck.
# {{medicine}} The position of a [[fetus]] in the [[womb]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|untruth}}
* [[Cebuano]]: [[bakak]]
* Chinese: [[谎言]] (huǎngyán), [[假话]] (jiǎhuà)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|lež|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|løgn}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|leugen|f}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[alakpadada]], [[aʋatsokaka]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vale}}, {{t+|fi|valhe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mensonge|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Lüge|f}}
* Greek: [[ψέμμα]] (psema) {{n}}
* Hebrew: [[שקר]] (She'ker) {{m}}
* Hindi: [[झूठ]] (jhūtth)
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|lygi}}
* [[Ilocano]]: [[ulbod]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[mendacio]], [[mentita]]
* Irish: {{t-|ga|bréag|f|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|bugia|f}}
* Japanese: [[嘘]] ([[うそ]], uso), [[虚言]] (きょげん, kyogen)
* Korean: [[거짓말]] (geojitmal)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[درۆ]]}}
* [[Marathi]]: [[खोट]] (khota)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|løgn|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kłamstwo|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mentira|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|minciună|f}}
* Russian: [[ложь]] (lož’) {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|laž|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mentira|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lögn|c}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[kasinungalingan]]
* [[Waray Waray]]: [[kaga']]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|golf term}}
* Dutch: [[ligging]] {{f}}, [[terreinligging]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|position of fetus}}
* Dutch: [[ligging]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Kindslage]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Finnish==

===Verb===
'''lie'''

# {{context|nonstandard|lang=fi}} {{fi-form of|olla|type=verb|pr=third-person|pl=singular|mood=potential|tense=present}}
#: ''Se on missä '''lie'''.''
#:: ''It's somewhere.'' / ''I wonder where it is.''

====Usage notes====
* This form is used mostly in the expression above.

====Synonyms====
* (''3rd-pers. sg. potent. pres. of olla; standard'') [[lienee]]

===Anagrams===
* [[eli#Finnish|eli]]
* [[lei#Finnish|lei]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From a Celtic language

===Noun===
'''lie'''

# [[dregs]] (of wine, of society)

===Verb===
'''lie'''

# First-person singular indicative present of [[lier]].
# First-person singular subjunctive present of [[lier]].
# Third-person singular indicative present of [[lier]].
# Third-person singular subjunctive present of [[lier]].
# Second-person singular imperative present of [[lier]].

[[Category:French nouns]]
[[Category:French verb forms]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin===
{{cmn-alt-pinyin|lie|lie0|lie5}}

# [[咦]]: [[expression]] of [[surprise]]

===Pinyin syllable===
'''lie'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of three tones, [[liē]], [[liě]], or [[liè]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''lie''' {{c}}
{{sv-noun-reg-ar|2=li}}

# [[scythe]]; an instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like.

[[de:lie]]
[[et:lie]]
[[el:lie]]
[[es:lie]]
[[fa:lie]]
[[fr:lie]]
[[gl:lie]]
[[ko:lie]]
[[io:lie]]
[[it:lie]]
[[kk:lie]]
[[ku:lie]]
[[lo:lie]]
[[hu:lie]]
[[nl:lie]]
[[ja:lie]]
[[pl:lie]]
[[pt:lie]]
[[ru:lie]]
[[simple:lie]]
[[fi:lie]]
[[sv:lie]]
[[ta:lie]]
[[te:lie]]
[[vi:lie]]
[[tr:lie]]
[[uk:lie]]
[[zh:lie]]