{{wikipedia|dab=Lightning (disambiguation)|Lightning}}
==English==

===Etymology===
[[lighten|light(e)n]] + [[-ing]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈlaɪt.nɪŋ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"laIt.nIN/}}
* {{audio|En-us-lightning.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# The [[flash]] of [[light]] caused by the discharge of atmospheric [[electrical]] charge.
# The [[discharge]] of atmospheric [[electrical]] charge itself.
#: ''That tree was hit by '''lightning'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|flash of light}}
* [[Amharic]]: {{tø|am|መብረቅ|tr=mäbräq|sc=Ethi}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|برق|m|tr=barq}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܒܪܩܐ]] (barqā, barqo) {{m}}
*: Hebrew: [[ברקא]] (barqā, barqo) {{m}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կայծակ|tr=kayçak}}, {{t-|hy|շանթ|tr=šant'}}
*: Old Armenian: {{tø|xcl|կայծակն|tr=kaycakn|sc=Armn|xs=Old Armenian}}
* [[Azeri]]: {{t+|az|şimşək|xs=Azeri}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|tximistargi|xs=Basque}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|маланка|f|tr=malanka|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|бліскавіца|tr=bliskavica|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|munja|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|мълния|f|tr=mǎlnija}},  {{t|bg|светкавица|f|tr=svetkávica}}
* [[Caddo]]: [[kǝhaudíːn-unǝ]]
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|llampec|m}}
* [[Ch'orti']]: [[hihƥ]]
* [[Chamicuro]]: {{tø|ccc|yaple'ti}}
* Cherokee: {{t-|chr|ᎠᎾᎦᎵᏍᎩ|tr=anagalisgi|sc=Cher|xs=Cherokee}}
* [[Cheyenne]]: [[évóˀhoˀȧseˀha]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|閃電|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|闪电|tr=shǎndiàn|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|munja|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|blesk|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|lyn|n}},  {{t|da|lynglimt|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bliksem|m}}
* [[Egyptian]]: (ŧɵḥɵn)
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|fulmo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|salama}}
* [[Flathead]]: [[ʔesuˀwéʧiʔ]]
* French: {{t+|fr|éclair|m}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|raio|xs=Galician}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ელვა|tr=elva|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Blitz|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αστραπή|f|tr=astrapí}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[aratiri]]
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ברק}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|villám}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|elding|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|kilat|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|geledek|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t+|id|petir|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|halilintar|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[fulmine]], [[fulgure]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|fulmine|m}}, {{t-|it|folgore|m}}, {{t+|it|saetta|f}}, {{t+|it|lampo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|稲妻|tr=いなずま, inazuma}},  {{t|ja|雷光|tr=らいこう, raikō}},  {{t+|ja|雷|tr=かみなり, kaminari}}
* [[Javanese]]: [[geledek]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Kansa]]: [[galéleze]]
* [[Klallam]]: [[ƛ̕əmƛ̕əmcínəŋ]]
* Korean: [[번개]] (beongae), [[벼락]] (byeorak) (''for the stroke'')
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|بروسکه‌|tr=bruske|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|تریشقه‌|tr=trishqe|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|fulgur|n}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|žaibas|m|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[മിന്നല്‍]] (minnal)
* [[Mohawk]]: [[tewennineˀkarahwanyonˀs]]
* [[Nahuatl]]: {{t|nah|tlapetlānilli}}, {{t|nah|tlapetlantli}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|lynglimt}}, {{t|no|blink}}
* [[O'odham]]: {{tø|ood|wepgih|xs=O'odham}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[wazimog]], [[waasamowin]]
* [[Old Church Slavonic]]: [[блискъ]] (bliskŭ) {{m}}
* [[Old High German]]: [[blic]]
* Old Norse: [[leiptr]]
* [[Old Saxon]]: [[bliksmo]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[آذرخش]]}} (âzaraxš), {{fa-Arab|[[صاعقه]]}} (sâeqe)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|błyskawica|f}}, {{t+|pl|piorun|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|relâmpago|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|fulger|n}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t|rm|chametg|m}}, {{t|rm|cametg|m}}, {{t|rm|tgametg|m}}, {{t|rm|sajetta|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|молния|f|tr=mólnija}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[dealanach]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[муња#Serbian|муња]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[munja#Serbian|munja]] {{f}}, [[bljesak]] {{m}}
* [[Seri]]: [[æɑmxʷ]]; [[iʃɑ́ːʔoχ inóɸtx]]
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|blesk|m}}, {{t-|sk|hrom|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|strela|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|relámpago|m}}, {{t+|es|rayo|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|radi|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blixt}}
* [[Taos]]: [[upę́lena]], [[phàc’íene]]
* [[Tatar]]: {{t+|tt|яшен|sc=Cyrl|xs=Tatar}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[మెరుపు]] (merupu)
* [[Thracian]]: [[zbel]]
* [[Tocharian A]]: [[wasir]]
* [[Tocharian B]]: [[wasir]]
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[tupã beraba]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yıldırım}},  {{t|tr|şimşek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|блискавка|f|tr=blýskavka|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Welsh: [[mellt]], [[lluched]]
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[ʻmála]], [[ǁnáa]]
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|בליץ|tr=blits|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|discharge}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|tximista|xs=Basque}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|llamp|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|lyn|n}},  {{t|da|lynnedslag|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|salama}}, {{t|fi|salamanisku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|foudre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κεραυνός|m|tr=keravnós}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|fulmen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|raio|m}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t|rm|chametg|m}}, {{t|rm|cametg|m}}, {{t|rm|tgametg|m}}, {{t|rm|sajetta|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|rayo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[ball lightning]]
* [[Jewish lightning]]
* [[greased lightning]]
* [[lightning bug]]
* [[lightning bolt]]
* [[lightning conductor]]
{{mid2}}
* [[lightning detector]]
* [[lightning fast]]
* [[lightning rod]]
* [[lightning round]]
* [[lightning strike]]
* [[sheet lightning]]
{{bottom2}}

====Related terms====

* [[thunder]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Extremely [[fast]] or [[sudden]].
# Moving at the speed of lightning.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{impersonal|childish|or|nonstandard}} To produce lightning.
#* '''1916''', Dorothy Canfield Fisher, ''Understood Betsy''
#*: Or if it thundered and '''lightninged''', Aunt Frances always dropped everything she might be doing and held Elizabeth Ann tightly in her arms until it was all over.
#* '''1968''', Dan Greenburg, ''Chewsday: a sex novel''
#*: The next day, though it is not only raining but thundering and '''lightninging''' as well, antiquing is seen by three-fourths of those present as a lesser evil than free play.
#* '''1987''', Tricia Springstubb, ''Eunice Gottlieb and the unwhitewashed truth about life''
#*: "Hey!" yelled Reggie, pulling her back. "Get in here! It's '''lightninging'''. I don't want a charcoal-broiled friend!"
#* '''1988''', Carlo Collodi, Roberto Innocenti, ''The adventures of Pinocchio''
#*: I don't know, Father, but believe me, it has been a horrible night — one that I'll never forget. It thundered and '''lightninged''', and I was very hungry.

====Usage notes====
* [[bolt]], [[flash]], [[strike]] are some of the words used to count lightning.
* The standard, but rare, verb for "lightning occurs'' is [[lighten]], used only in the impersonal form "it lightens".

[[Category:Weather]]

[[cs:lightning]]
[[de:lightning]]
[[et:lightning]]
[[el:lightning]]
[[eo:lightning]]
[[eu:lightning]]
[[fa:lightning]]
[[fr:lightning]]
[[ko:lightning]]
[[hy:lightning]]
[[io:lightning]]
[[id:lightning]]
[[iu:lightning]]
[[it:lightning]]
[[kn:lightning]]
[[kk:lightning]]
[[lo:lightning]]
[[hu:lightning]]
[[ml:lightning]]
[[my:lightning]]
[[nl:lightning]]
[[ja:lightning]]
[[oc:lightning]]
[[pl:lightning]]
[[pt:lightning]]
[[ru:lightning]]
[[simple:lightning]]
[[fi:lightning]]
[[ta:lightning]]
[[te:lightning]]
[[vi:lightning]]
[[zh:lightning]]