==English==

{{rank|act|la|further|483|line|added|toward|feeling}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''[[#Middle English|line]]'' < {{OE.}} ''[[līne]]'' "[[cable]], [[hawser]]"; both probably from {{L.}} ''[[linea]]'' "a [[linen]] [[thread]]", "[[string]]", "line" and from ''[[linum]]'' "[[flax]]", "thread", "linen", "cable". The English word was influenced by the {{F.}} ''[[ligne]]'' "line" from the same Latin word ''[[linea]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/laɪn/}}
*{{audio|en-us-line.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|aɪn}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[rope]], [[cord]], or [[string]]. (''fishing '''line''''', ''anchor '''line''''')
# A path through two or more points. (See also [[segment]].)
# {{geometry}} An infinitely extending one-dimensional [[figure]] that has no [[curvature]].
# {{context|geometry|informal}} A [[line segment]]; a continuous finite segment of such a figure.
# {{math}} That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.
# A sentence of [[dialogue]] in a [[script]] or [[screenplay]], or delivered by an [[actor]] or [[performer]].
#* It's a small part, I have 12 '''lines''' in the movie. - Geneveve Bujold in ''Earthquake''
# The official, stated position of an individual or political faction.
#: ''Remember, your answers must match the party '''line'''.''
# A [[telephone]] or network [[connection]].
#: ''I tried to make a call, but the '''line''' was dead.''
# A more-or-less straight sequence of people, objects, etc, waiting to be processed or dealt with, a [[queue]].
#: ''The '''line''' forms on the right.''
# A single horizontal [[row]] of [[text]] on a [[CRT]] [[screen]], printed [[paper]], etc.
# The [[product]]s or [[service]]s sold by a [[business]]. (Also called '''''line''' of business''.)
# From the services a business sells, the business itself.
#: ''How many buses does the '''line''' have?''
#: ''The airline is in danger of bankruptcy.''
#: ''A ship of the '''line'''.''
# {{fencing}} The position in which the [[fencer]]s hold their [[swords]]. (Also called '''''line''' of engagement''.)
# A [[letter]], a written form of communication.
#: ''Drop me a '''line'''.''
# {{graphtheory}} An [[edge]] of a graph.
# {{cricket}} the [[horizontal]] [[path]] of a [[ball]] towards the [[batsman]] (see also [[length]])
# {{context|baseball|slang}} an 1800s baseball term meaning the batter's box, often used with "the"
# {{obsolete}} Flax; linen.
#* Garments made of line. --Spenser
# {{obsolete}} The longer and fiber of flax.
# Linen thread or string; a slender, strong cord; also, a cord of any thickness; a rope; a hawser; as, a fishing line; a line for snaring birds; a clothesline; a towline.
#* Who so layeth lines for to latch fowls. --Piers Plowman
# A more or less threadlike mark of pen, pencil, or graver; any long mark; as, a chalk line.
# The course followed by anything in motion; hence, a road or route; as, the arrow descended in a curved line; the place is remote from lines of travel.
# Direction; as, the line sight or vision.
# A row of letters, words, etc., written or printed; esp., a row of words extending across a page or column.
# A short letter; a note; as, a line from a friend.
# {{poetic}} A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet, according to the measure.
#* In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. --Broome
# Course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy; method of argument; department of industry, trade, or intellectual activity.
#* He is uncommonly powerful in his own line, but it is not the line of a first-rate man. --Coleridge
# The exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary; contour; outline.
#* Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia. --Milton
# A threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence, characteristic mark.
#* Though on his brow were graven lines austere. --Byron
#* He tipples palmistry, and dines On all her fortune-telling lines. --Cleveland
# Lineament; feature; figure.
#* The lines of my boy's face. --Shak.
# A straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses, or of soldiers; a line of barriers.
#* Unite thy forces and attack their lines. --Dryden
# A series or succession of ancestors or descandants of a given person; a family or race; as, the ascending or descending line; the line of descent; the male line; a line of kings.
#:Of his lineage am I, and his offspring By very line, as of the stock real. --Chaucer
# A connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc.; as, a line of stages; an express line.
# {{geography}} A circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map.
# {{geography}} The equator (usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as, to cross the line)
# A long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline.
# {{context|Bible}} A measuring line or cord.
#* He marketh it out with a line. --Is. xliv. 13
# {{context|Bible}} That which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of land set apart; hence, allotted place of abode.
#* The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yes. I have a goodly heritage. --Ps. xvi. 6
# {{context|Bible}}) Instruction; doctrine.
#* Their line is gone out through all the earth. -- Ps. xix. 4
# {{engineering}} The proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working; as, the engine is in line or out of line or out of line.
# The track and roadbed of a railway; railroad.
# {{military}} A row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side or some distance apart; -- opposed to column.
# {{military}} The regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia, guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.
# {{context|fortifications}} A [[trench]] or [[rampart]].
# {{music}} One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes on and between which the notes are placed.
# {{context|Stock Exchange}} A number of shares taken by a jobber.
# {{context|trade}} A series of various qualities and values of the same general class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery; a line of merinos, etc. (McElrath)
# The wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name.
# A measure of length; one twelfth of an inch.
#* Hard lines, hard lot. --C. Kingsley

====Synonyms====
*(''row of text''): [[row]]
*(''letter''): [[epistle]], [[letter]], [[note]]
*(''geometry: infinite one-dimensional figure''): [[straight line]]
*(''geometry: continuous segment of an infinite line''): [[line segment]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a rope, cord, or string}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[naru]], [[nuora]], [[nyöri]]
*German: [[Leine]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[corda]] {{f}}, [[fune]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[fio]] {{m}}, [[linha]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[верёвка]] (v'er'óvka) {{f}}, [[шнур]] (šnur) {{m}}, [[линь]] (lin') {{m}}
*Swedish: [[lina]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a path through two or more points}}
*Dutch: [[rechte]] {{f}}, [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[viiva]]
*German: [[Linie]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[линия]] (línija) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geometry: an infinite one-dimensional figure}}
*Dutch: [[rechte]] {{f}}, [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[suora]]
*French: [[droite]] {{f}}
*German: [[Gerade]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[reta]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[линия]] (línija) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geometry: a continuous finite segment of such a figure}}
*Dutch: [[rechte]] {{f}}, [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[jana]]
*German: [[Strecke]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[segmento]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[отрезок]] (otr'ézok) {{m}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a sentence of dialogue in a script or screenplay}}
*Finnish: [[vuorosana]], [[rivi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[verso]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[реплика]] (r'éplika) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[replik]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the official, stated position of an individual or political faction}}
*Finnish: [[mielipide]], [[näkökanta]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[линия]] (línija) {{f}}, [[курс]] (kurs) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a telephone or network connection}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}, [[aansluiting]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[linja]]
*French: [[ligne]] {{f}}
*German: [[Leitung]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[линия связи]] (línija sv'ázi) {{f}}, [[линия]] (línija) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[anslutning]] {{c}}, [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a queue}}
*Dutch: [[rij]] {{f}}, [[file]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[jono]]
*German: [[Schlange]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[coda]] {{f}}, [[fila]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[fila]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[очередь]] (óčer'ed') {{f}}
*Swedish: [[kö]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a single horizontal row of text on a screen, printed paper, etc.}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}, [[regel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]]
*French: [[ligne]] {{f}}
*German: [[Zeile]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[riga]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[linha]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[строка]] (stroká) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[rad]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the products or services sold by a business}}
*Dutch: [[produktlijn]] {{f}}
*French: [[ligne]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}, [[ramo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[produktlinje]] {{c}}, [[sortiment]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|from the services a business sells, the business itself}}
*Finnish: [[linja]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fencing: the position in which the fencers hold their swords}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a letter, a written form of communication}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]], [[kirje]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|graph theory: an edge of a graph}}
*German: [[Kante]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[aresta]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cricket: the horizontal path of a ball towards the batsman}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|baseball slang: an 1800s baseball term meaning the batter's box, often used with "the"}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: flax; linen}}
:''See'' '''[[flax]]''' ''and'' '''[[linen]]'''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: the longer and fiber of flax}}
:''See'' '''[[flax]]''' ''and'' '''[[linen]]'''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|linen thread or string; a slender, strong cord}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a more or less threadlike mark of pen, pencil, or graver; any long mark; as, a chalk line}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[viiva]]
*French: [[trait]] {{m}}
*German: [[Linie]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[risco]] {{m}}, [[traço]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[линия]] (línija) {{f}}, [[черта]] (čertá) {{f}}, [[штрих]] (štriχ) {{m}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the course followed by anything in motion}}
*Dutch: [[trajekt]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[reitti]], [[rata]]
*German: [[Weg]] {{m}}, [[Pfad]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[курс]] (kurs) {{m}}, [[путь]] (put') {{m}}, [[направление]] (napravlénije) {{n}}
*Swedish: [[bana]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|direction; as, the line sight or vision}}
*Finnish: [[suunta]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a row of letters, words, etc.}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[строка]] (stroká) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a short letter; a note; as, a line from a friend}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''poetic'') a verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet, according to the measure}}
*Dutch: [[stanza]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy}}
*French: [[ligne de conduite]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mathematics: that which has length, but not breadth or thickness}}
*Dutch: [[rechte]]
*Finnish: [[suora]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[линия]] (línija) {{g}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary; contour; outline}}
*Portuguese: [[contorno]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[граница]] (granícz) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence, characteristic mark}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[viiva]]
*French: [[ride]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[морщина]] (morš'ína) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lineament; feature; figure}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses, or of soldiers}}
*Dutch: [[rij]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]]
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[fileira]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[ряд]] (r'ad) {{m}}, [[строй]] (stroj) {{m}}
*Swedish: [[led]] {{c}}, [[rad]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a series or succession of ancestors or descendants of a given person}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[linja]], [[sukulinja]], [[jälkeläinen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[linje]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc.}}
*Finnish: [[linja]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geography: a circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map}}
*Finnish: [[piiri]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|geography: the equator (usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as, to cross the line)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline}}
*Finnish: [[mittanauha]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[corda]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[линейка]] (lin'éjka) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bible: a measuring line or cord}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bible: that which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of land set apart}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bible: instruction; doctrine}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|engineering: the proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the track and roadbed of a railway; railroad}}
*Dutch: [[spoorlijn]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[rata]], [[rautatie]]
*French: [[ligne]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[binario]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[trilho]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: a row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side or some distance apart}}
*Dutch: [[lijn]] {{f}}, [[rij]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[rivi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}, [[fila]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[щеренга]] (šer'énga) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[led]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|military: the regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia, guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fortifications: a trench or rampart}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: one of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes on and between which the notes are placed}}
*Dutch: [[regel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[viiva]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[линейка]] (lin'éjka) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|stock Exchange: a number of shares taken by a jobber}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trade: a series of various qualities and values of the same general class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name}}
*Finnish: [[linja]]
*Italian: [[linea]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[linje]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a measure of length; one twelfth of an inch}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[линия]] {{f}} (1, 2, 5), [[реплика]] {{f}} (3), [[опашка]] {{f}} (6), [[въже]] {{n}} (7), [[позиция]] {{f}} (10)
*{{ttbc|Chinese Characters}}: [[排]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[rechte]] {{f}} (1,2), [[lijn]] {{f}} (1,2,4,7), [[aansluiting]] {{f}} (5), [[rij]] {{f}} (6), [[file]] (6), [[vislijn]] {{f}} (8)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[linea]] (1,2,4,5,6,7,8); [[fila]], [[cauda]] (6); [[littera]] (10)
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[líne]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[줄]] (jul), [[Hanja]]: [[선]] (seon) (1, 2, 7)
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[lineo]]
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[linia]] {{f}} (1,2,5,10), [[lina]] {{f}} (8)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[čiara]] (1), [[priamka]] (2), [[linka]] (5,7), [[rad]] (6)

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from the noun "line"}}
*[[airline]]
*[[beeline]]
*[[bloodline]]
*[[borderline]]
*[[branch line]]
*[[breadline]]
*[[Brocard line]]
*[[Cayley lines]]
*[[cell line]]
*[[critical line]]
*[[Euler line]]
*[[flow line]]
*[[front line]]
*[[Gergonne line]]
*[[Green Line]]
*[[hairline]]
*[[imaginary line]]
*[[isogonal line]]
*[[isotropic line]]
*[[line graph]]
*[[line manager]]
*[[line of fire]]
*[[line of sight]]
*[[line segment]]
*[[line up]]<!--verb-->
*[[line-up]]<!--noun-->
*[[mainline]]
*[[offline]]
*[[online]]
*[[on the line]]
*[[outline]]
*[[ordinary line]]
*[[party line]]
{{rel-mid}}
*[[Pascal lines]]
*[[pedal line]]
*[[Philo line]]
*[[pipeline]]
*[[Plücker lines]]
*[[polar line]]
*[[power line]]<!--also a mathematical term-->
*[[punchline]]
*[[racing line]]
*[[radical line]]
*[[real line]]
*[[redline]]
*[[rhumb line]]
*[[secant line]]
*[[shoreline]]
*[[sign on the dotted line]]
*[[Simson line]]
*[[Soddy line]]
*[[Solomon's seal lines]]
*[[straight line]]
*[[streamline]]
*[[Sylvester's line problem]]
*[[tangent line]]
*[[timeline]]
*[[toe the line]]<!--note: not "tow"-->
*[[transversal line]]
*[[trilinear line]]
*[[waterline]]
*[[world line]]
*[[yellow line]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|lin|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[cover]] the [[inside]] [[surface]] of (something)
#: ''The bird '''lines''' its nest with soft grass.''
# {{transitive}} To place (objects) into a line (usually used with "up")
# {{transitive}} To mark with a line
# {{transitive}} To cover the inner surface of; as, to line a cloak with silk or fur; to line a box with paper or tin.
#* The inside lined with rich carnation silk. --W. Browne
# {{transitive}} To put something in the inside of; to fill; to supply, as a purse with money.
#* The charge amounteth very high for any one man's purse, except lined beyond ordinary, to reach unto. --Carew.
#* Till coffee has her stomach lined. --Swift
# {{transitive}} To place persons or things along the side of for security or defense; to strengthen by adding; to fortify; as, to line works with soldiers.
#* Line and new repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant. --Shak.
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To impregnate (applied to brute animals. Creech.)
# {{transitive}} To mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a copy book.
#* He had a healthy color in his cheeks, and his face, though lined, bore few traces of anxiety. --Dickens
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To represent by lines; to delineate; to portray.
#* Pictures fairest lined. --Shak.
# {{transitive}} To read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn.
#:Etymological note: This custom of reading or lining, or, as it was frequently called [[deaconing]] the hymn or psalm in the churches, was brought about partly from necessity. -- N.D. Gould
# {{transitive}} To form into a line; to align; as, to line troops.
# {{intransitive}} To form or enter into a line (usually used with "up")
# {{intransitive}} (baseball) To hit a [[line drive]]; to hit a [[line drive]] which is caught for an out.  Compare [[fly]] (verb (regular)) and [[ground]] (verb).
#* Jones lined to left in his last at-bat.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to cover the inside surface of (something)}}
*Dutch: [[voeren]], [[een voering in maken]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[forrar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place (objects) into a line}}
*Dutch: [[uitlijnen]]
*Portuguese: [[enfileirar]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[выстраивать]]/[[выстроить]] (vystráivat'/výstroit') ''trans.'', [[выстраиваться]]/[[выстроиться]] (vystráivat's'a/výstroit's'a) ''intrans.''
*Swedish: [[rada upp]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mark with a line}}
*Portuguese: [[traçar]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[линовать]], [[отмечать чертой]]
*Swedish: [[linjera]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cover the inner surface of}}
*Swedish: [[fodra]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to place persons or things along the side of for security or defense}}
*Swedish: [[rada upp]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[выстраивать]]/[[выстроить]] (vystráivat'/výstroit') ''trans.'', [[выстраиваться]]/[[выстроиться]] (vystráivat's'a/výstroit's'a) ''intrans.''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: to impregnate}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a copy book}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: to represent by lines; to delineate; to portray}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to form into a line; to align; as, to line troops}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to form or enter into a line}}
*Bulgarian: [[строявам се]]
*German: sich [[eingliedern]], sich [[aufreihen]]
*Interlingua: [[alinear]] [[se]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[alinhar]]-[[se]]
*Swedish: [[bilda]] [[linje]]
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[подплатявам]] (1), [[нареждам]] (2)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[auslegen]] (1), [[aufreihen]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[foderar]] (1); [[alinear]] (2)

===See also===
*[[curve]]
*[[point]]
*[[segment]]

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

{{webster}}

[[ar:line]]
[[fa:line]]
[[fr:line]]
[[ko:line]]
[[io:line]]
[[it:line]]
[[kk:line]]
[[hu:line]]
[[pl:line]]
[[pt:line]]
[[ru:line]]
[[sr:line]]
[[fi:line]]
[[ta:line]]
[[vi:line]]
[[uk:line]]
[[zh:line]]