{{selfref|For Wiktionary's links, see [[Wiktionary:Links]]}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/lɪŋks/}}, {{SAMPA|/lINks/}}
* {{audio|en-us-links.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋks}}
* {{homophones|lynx}}

===Etymology 1===
See [[link]].

====Noun====
'''links'''

# {{plural of|[[link]]}}

====Verb====
'''links'''

# {{third-person singular of|[[link]]}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|sco|en}} {{term|link||lang=sco|sandy, rolling ground near seashore}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|hlinc||lang=ang|rising ground}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|links}}

# A [[golf course]], especially one situated on dunes by the sea.
#* '''1894''', “The Golfer in Search of a Climate”, in ''Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine'', page 570
#*: but what worthy golf '''links''' is not intolerably hard of access?
#* '''1919''', Harold H. Hilton, “Golf Courses at Home and Abroad”, in ''The Windsor Magazine'', no. 296, p. 173.
#*: The royal and ancient game of golf may now claim to be the universal game of the world, as in every part of the habitable globe '''links''' are to be found.
#* '''1920''', Walter Hines Page, ''The World’s Work'', page 393
#*: All over the country, '''links''' are scattered — club links, public links, and private links — and every year the number grows.
#* '''1967''', Litellus Russell Muirhead, ''Scotland'', page 278
#*: The '''links''' are the property of the town, the Courses being under the management of a joint committee representing the R. & A. Golf Club and the City.
#* '''2002''', Forrest L. Richardson, ''Routing the Golf Course: The Art & Science That Forms the Golf Journey'', page 95
#*: A true '''links''' is built on linksland […]
#* '''2003''', Lorne Rubenstein, ''A Season in Dornoch: Golf and Life in the Scottish Highlands'', page 168
#*: A '''links''' is best when it’s really firm and when the wind is really up.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|golf course}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|golfbaan|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|iklns}}
* [[kilns#English|kilns]]
* [[slink#English|slink]]

[[Category:English invariant nouns]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{infl|da|noun form|g=n}}

# {{form of|plural indefinite|link|lang=Danish}}
# {{form of|genitive singular indefinite|link|lang=Danish}}
# {{form of|genitive plural indefinite|link|lang=Danish}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɪŋks/|lang=nl}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋks|lang=nl}}
* {{homophones|lynx|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===
From the adjective [[link]] 'left', from {{etyl|dum|nl}} [[linck]] (modern [[links]])

====Alternative forms====
* [[linksch]] (obsolete; adjective only, popular etymology by analogy)

====Adverb====
{{infl|nl|adverb}} ({{compar}} '''meer links''', {{superl}} '''meest links''')

# on the [[left]]
#: ''Zie je die auto '''links'''?
#:: ''Do you see the car on the left?
# to the left
#: ''Bij het volgende verkeerslicht '''links''' afslaan.
#:: ''Turn left at the next traffic light.
#: ''We gaan naar '''links'''.
#:: ''We’re going to the left.

=====Antonyms=====
* [[rechts]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* [[linksachter]]
* [[linksaf]]
* [[linksback]]
* [[linksbenig]]
* [[linksbinnen]]
* [[linksboven]]
* [[linksbuiten]]
* [[linksdraaiend]]
* [[linksgeschuind]]
* [[linksgeschuinbalkt]]
* [[linksgestreept]]
* [[linkshalf]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[linkshandig]]
* [[linksheid]]
* [[linksloop]]
* [[linksom]]
* [[linksomgaande]]
* [[linksomkeert]]
* [[linksonder]]
* [[linksop]]
* [[linkspoot]]
* [[linksrijdend]]
* [[linksuit]]
* [[linksvoetig]]
* [[linksvoor]]
* [[linkswindend]]
* [[schuinlinks]]
{{der-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{nl-adj2|e|t|meer}}

# {{context|not comparable}} [[left]]
#: ''Er zit een vlek op je '''linkse''' schoen.
#:: ''There’s a spot on your left shoe.
# [[leftist]], belonging to the ideological left
#: ''Dat zijn '''linkse''' ideeën.
#:: ''Those are leftist ideas.
# {{context|predicatively}} [[left-handed]]
#: ''Ik ben '''links''', je kan niet met mijn pen schrijven.
#:: ''I’m left-handed, you cannot write with my pen.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|left}} [[linker]]
* {{sense|left-handed}} [[linkshandig]]

=====Antonyms=====
* [[rechts]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[linker]]
* [[links–extremistisch]]
* [[linkshandig]]
* [[linksheid]]
* [[linksig]]
* [[links–liberaal]]
* [[links–radicaal]]

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|-|-}}

# The left, the left side or [[tendency]], especially in politics and any ideology.
#: ''Dat is een opinie die je van '''links''' zou kunnen horen.
#:: ''That’s an opinion which could have come from the left.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[linksgeoriënteerd]]

===Etymology 2===
See {{term|link|lang=nl}}.

====Noun====
'''links'''

# {{form of|nominalization|link|nodot=1|lang=nl}}, something which is [[dangerous]].
#: ''Als je nog eens zoiets '''links''' wil doen, waarschuw ons dan even.
#:: ''If you want to do something that dangerous again, give us a warning.

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|en|nl}} {{term|link}}.

====Noun====
'''links'''

# {{context|computing}} {{plural of|link|lang=nl}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=de}} Germanic, cognate with [[#Dutch#links]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɪŋks/|lang=de}}

===Adverb===
'''links'''

# on the [[left]]
#: ''Siehst du das Auto '''links'''?
#:: ''Do you see the car on the left?
# to the left
#: ''An der nächsten Ampel '''links''' abbiegen.
#:: ''Turn left at the next traffic light.
#: ''Wir gehen nach '''links'''.
#:: ''We’re going to the left.

====Related terms====
* [[Linke]] {{f}}

[[Category:German adverbs]]

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|sco}} {{term|hlinc||lang=ang|a ridge", "slope", "bank}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɪŋks/|lang=sco}}

===Noun===
{{infl|sco|noun}}

# [[dune|Dunes]] {{gloss|especially [[sandy]] dunes}}

====References====
* [http://www.dsl.ac.uk/dsl/ The Dictionary of the Scots language]

[[Category:Scots nouns]]

[[ar:links]]
[[br:links]]
[[de:links]]
[[el:links]]
[[es:links]]
[[fr:links]]
[[ko:links]]
[[hr:links]]
[[io:links]]
[[id:links]]
[[it:links]]
[[li:links]]
[[hu:links]]
[[nl:links]]
[[pt:links]]
[[ru:links]]
[[simple:links]]
[[fi:links]]
[[te:links]]
[[tr:links]]
[[vi:links]]
[[zh:links]]