{{see|List}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɪst/}}
* {{SAMPA|/lIst/}}
* {{audio|en-us-list.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪst|-ɪst]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[liste#Old English|līste]]''.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[lijst]]'', German ''[[Leiste]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[strip]] of [[fabric]], especially from the edge of a piece of [[cloth]].
# Material used for [[cloth]] [[selvage]].
#* {{quote-book|year=1893|author=Arthur Conan Doyle|title=The Naval Treaty|page=681|publisher=Norton 2005|
passage=The charwomen are in the habit of taking off their boots at the commissionaire's office, and putting on '''list''' slippers.}}
# {{in plural}} The palisades or barriers used to fence off a space for [[tilting]] or [[jousting]] tournaments.
#* {{quote-book|year=1819|author=Walter Scott|title=Ivanhoe|
passage=William de Wyvil, and Stephen de Martival, [...] armed at all points, rode up and down the '''lists''' to enforce and preserve good order among the spectators.}}

===Etymology 2===
From Old (and modern) French ''[[liste]]'' ‘strip (of paper)’, probably cognate with Etymology 1, from Germanic.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A register or roll of paper consisting of an enumeration or [[compilation]] of a set of possible [[item]]s.
# {{computing}} A codified representation of a list, used to store data or in processing.
# {{complang}} ([[LISP]]) a [[data structure]] made up of [[cons pair|cons pairs]] the [[cdr]] of which contains either another '''list''' or [[nil]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
* [[blacklist]]
* [[bullet list]]
* [[whitelist]]
* [[checklist]]
* [[comma separated list]]
* [[association list]]
* [[definition list]]
* [[grocery list]]
* [[hit list]]
{{mid2}}
* [[laundry list]]
* [[mailing list]]
* [[punch list]]
* [[set list]]
* [[short list]]
* [[stop list]]
* [[waiting list]]
* [[wine list]]
* [[wish list]]
* [[material list]]
{{bottom2}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|register or roll of paper consisting of an enumeration or compilation of a set of possible items}}
* Czech: [[seznam]] {{m}}
* Dutch: [[lijst]] {{f}}
* Finnish: [[lista]]
* German: [[Liste]] {{f}}
* Japanese: [[一覧]] (ichiran), [[リスト]] (risuto)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Limburgish]]: [[lies]]
* [[Scots]]: [[leet]]
* Slovak: [[zoznam]] {{m}}
* Slovene: [[seznam]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[lista]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: codified representation of a list}}
* Czech: [[seznam]] {{m}}
* Dutch: [[lijst]] {{f}}
* Finnish: [[lista]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Liste]] {{f}}
* Japanese: [[リスト]] (risuto)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|LISP: data structure made up of cons pairs the cdr of which contains either another list or nil}}
* Czech: [[seznam]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: [[lijst]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[liste]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[liste]] ''mf''
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[orodha]] ''(noun 9/10)''
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[lista]] ''c''
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To create or recite a list.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to create or recite a list}}
* French: [[lister]]
* Japanese: [[列記する]] (rekki-suru), [[リストする]] (risuto suru)
* Norwegian: [[liste]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[naštevati]]
* Spanish: [[hacer]] [[una]] [[lista]], [[leer]] [[una]] [[lista]]
* Swahili: [[kuorodesha]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lists|listing|list}}

# To [[listen]]

=====Quotations=====
* '''1607''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:The Tragedy of Antony and Cleopatra|Antony and Cleopatra]] iv 3''
*: Peace, what noise? <br/>'''List''', '''list'''! <br/>Hark! <br/>Music i' the air.

===Etymology 4===
Possibly from tilting on lists in jousts.[http://www.drbilllong.com/CurrentEventsV/ListWII.html]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{nautical}} a tilting or careening manoeuvre, which causes the ship to roll.  Usually used to describe tilting not under a ship's own power.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{nautical}} to carry out such a manoeuvre

===Etymology 5===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|lystan}}, from {{proto|Germanic|lustjan}}, from *{{term||lustus|pleasure}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{archaic|transitive}} To be [[pleasing]] to.
# {{archaic}} To [[wish]], [[like]], [[desire]] (to do something).

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=bs|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{bs-noun|g=m|listovi}}

# [[leaf]]
# [[sheet]] of paper
# {{context|fish|lang=bs}} [[sole]]
# [[letter]] (''written message'')
# {{anatomy|lang=bs}} [[calf]] (''leg part'')
# [[certificate]], [[deed]]

====Declension====
{{bs-decl-noun
|list|listovi
|lista|listova
|listu|listovima
|list|listove
|liste|listovi
|listom|listovima
|listu|listovima
}}

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=hr|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{hr-noun|m}}

# [[leaf]]
# {{computing|lang=hr}} leaf
# [[sole]] (''fish'')
# [[letter]] (''written message'')
# [[sheet]] of paper
# [[calf]] (''leg part'')
# Special purpose certificate, e.g. of birth, ownership etc.

====Declension====
{{hr-decl-dar}}

----

==Czech==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=cs|leaf}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-list.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[leaf]]
# [[letter]]; a written message
# [[sheet]] (''of paper'')

====Related terms====
* [[listovat]]
* [[prolistovat]]
* [[listopad]] {{m}}
* [[listnatý]] {{m}}
* [[lístek]] {{m}}
* [[lísteček]] {{m}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/lɪst/}}

===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}

# a [[cunning]] plan

----

==Faroese==

===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}

# [[art]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-f2|list}}

[[Category:Faroese nouns]]

----

==Icelandic==
{{Icelandic declension kvk sb 01|list}}

===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}

# [[art]]
#* ''[[þetta|Þetta]] [[vera#Icelandic|er]] [[ekki#Icelandic|ekki]] '''list'''!''
#*: [[that's|That's]] [[not]] '''art'''!

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
* [[listasafn]] {{n}}
* [[listasaga]] {{f}}
* [[listaverk]] {{n}}
* [[listasalur]] {{m}}
* [[listaskóli]] {{m}}
* [[listsýning]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
* [[tónlist]]
* [[ljóðlist]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Lower Sorbian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=dsb|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|dsb|noun|g=m}}

# [[letter]] (a written message)

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Germanic|listiz|lang=ang}}.  Cognate with Old Saxon ''list'' (Dutch ''[[#Dutch|list]]''), Old High German ''list'' (German ''[[List]]''), Old Norse ''[[#Old Norse|list]]'' (Swedish ''[[#Swedish|list]]'').

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/list/}}

===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}

# [[cunning]], [[guile]], [[craft]]

====Declension====
{{oe-noun|list|liste|liste|liste|liste|lista|liste|listum}}

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=pl|leaf}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[list]|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|pl-list.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[letter]] (a written message)

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|list|listy
|listu|listów
|listowi|listom
|list|listy
|listem|listami
|liście|listach
|liście|listy
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[listonosz]]

----

==Serbian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=sr|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{sr-noun|g=m|pl=listovi|cyr=лист}}

# [[leaf]]
# [[sheet]] of paper
# {{context|fish|lang=sr}} [[sole]]
# [[letter]] (''written message'')
# {{anatomy|lang=sr}} [[calf]] (''leg part'')
# [[certificate]], [[deed]]

====Declension====
{{sr-decl-noun
|list|listovi
|lista|listova
|listu|listovima
|list|listove
|liste|listovi
|listom|listovima
|listu|listovima
}}

----

==Slovak==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=sk|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|sk|noun|g=m}}

# [[letter]]; a written message

----

==Slovene==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|listъ|lang=sl|leaf}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|sl|noun|g=m|plural|liste}}

# piece of [[paper]]
# [[leaf]]
* ''Note:  The plural '''listje'' applies only to '''leaves''' (parts of a plant) and is a collective noun.''

[[ar:list]]
[[de:list]]
[[et:list]]
[[el:list]]
[[fa:list]]
[[fr:list]]
[[ko:list]]
[[hr:list]]
[[io:list]]
[[id:list]]
[[is:list]]
[[it:list]]
[[kk:list]]
[[ku:list]]
[[lo:list]]
[[lt:list]]
[[hu:list]]
[[nl:list]]
[[ja:list]]
[[no:list]]
[[pl:list]]
[[pt:list]]
[[ro:list]]
[[ru:list]]
[[simple:list]]
[[sl:list]]
[[fi:list]]
[[sv:list]]
[[ta:list]]
[[te:list]]
[[vi:list]]
[[tr:list]]
[[zh:list]]