==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{historical}} The former territory of the Russian Empire inhabited by [[Ukrainian]]s, corresponding to modern central and eastern [[Ukraine]].  Specifically, this included the imperial provinces of [[Kharkiv]], [[Left-Bank Ukraine]], and [[Right-Bank Ukraine]], but excluded the southern colony of [[New Russia]] ({{term|Новороссия|tr=Novorossija|lang=ru|sc=Cyrl}}) and Ukrainian lands in the Austrian and Ottoman empires.
# {{historical}} The former Imperial Russian administrative subdivisions in north central Ukraine.  In Left-Bank Ukraine after 1781–83 this included lands of the abolished [[Cossack Hetmanate]], comprising the imperial provinces ({{term|наместничество|наместничества|tr=namestničestva|lang=ru|sc=Cyrl}}) of Kyjiv, Černihiv, and Novhorod-Sivers’kyj (but excluding the city of [[Kyjiv]]), which were combined into the Little Russian Governorate  ({{term|губерния|tr=gubernija|lang=ru|sc=Cyrl}}) in 1796, and split into the Poltava and Černihiv gorvernorates in 1802.  They were administered by the Little Russian Governor-General for the Left Bank from 1835–1860s.  In Right-Bank Ukraine, the [[palatinate]]s ({{term|województwo|województwa|lang=pl}}) of Kyjiv, Braclav, Podillja, and Volyn’ were acquired during the partitions of Poland of 1793 and 1795.  Originally referred to as the Southwestern Land ({{term|Югозападний Край|tr=Jugozapadnij Kraj|lang=ru|sc=Cyrl}}), they were administered by the Little Russian Governor-General for the Right Bank from 1831–1917.

====Usage notes====
* The term reflects the former status of Ukraine and Ukrainians in the Russian Empire, and went out of general use after the Russian Revolution of 1917.  It is an anachronism if not used in a historical context, and may be mildly offensive to Ukrainians.

====Translations====
* Russian: [[Малороссия]] (''Malorossija'')
* Ukrainian: [[Мала Русь]] (''Mala Rus’''), [[Мала Росія]] (''Mala Rosija''), [[Малоросія]] (''Malorosija'')

====Related terms====
* [[Ruthenia]]

====References====
* Magocsi, Paul Robert (1986).  ''Ukraine: A Historical Atlas''.  Toronto: University of Toronto Press.  ISBN 0-8020-3428-4.