==English==

{{rank|French|family|earth|406|live|hard|ask|question}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[libban]]''

===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: lĭv
*[[IPA]]: /lɪv/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>lIv</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-live-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|liv|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} To be alive; to have [[life]].
#: ''He's not expected to '''live''' for more than a few months.''
# {{intransitive}} To have permanent residence.
#: ''I '''live''' at 2a Acacia Avenue.''
# {{intransitive}} To survive, to persevere, to continue.
#: ''Her memory '''lives''' in that song.''

====Derived terms====
*[[live down]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|be alive}}
*Albanian: [[jeton]]
*Breton: [[beva]]
*Catalan: [[viure]]
*Croatian: [[živjeti]]
*Czech: [[žít]]
*Danish: [[leve]]
*Dutch: [[leven]]
*Esperanto: [[vivi]]
*Finnish: [[elää]]
*French: [[vivre]]
*German: [[leben]]
*Greek: [[ζω]] (zo), [[βιώνω]] (vióno)
{{trans-mid}}
*Hungarian: [[él]]
*[[Ido]]: [[vivar]]
*Indonesian: [[hidup]]
*Italian: [[vivere]]
*Latin: [[vivere]]
*Occitan: [[viure]]
*Portuguese: [[viver]]
*Polish:  [[żyć]]
*Romanian: [[trăi]]
*Russian: [[жить]] (žit’)
*Slovene: [[živeti]]
*Spanish: [[vivir]]
*Swedish: [[leva]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|have permanent residence}}
*Catalan: [[viure]]
*Czech: [[žít]]
*Danish: [[bo]]
*Dutch: [[wonen]]
*Finnish: [[asua]], [[elää]]
*French: [[habiter]]
*German: [[leben]], [[wohnen]]
*Greek: [[διαμένω]] (ðiaméno), [[κατοικώ]] (katikó), [[μένω]] (méno), [[ζω]] (zo)
*Ido: [[rezidar]]
*Italian: [[abitare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Old English: [[wunian]], [[buan|būan]]
*Polish: [[mieszkać]]
*Portuguese: [[viver]], [[morar]]
*Romanian: [[a locui]]
*Russian: [[жить]] (žit’), [[проживать]] (proživát’)
*Slovene: [[živeti]]
*Swedish: [[bo]]
*Yiddish: [[וווינען]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|survive, persevere}}
*Catalan: [[viure]]
*Czech: [[žít]]
*Danish: [[overleve]]
*Dutch: [[verderleven]], [[overleven]], [[voortbestaan]]
*Finnish: [[elää]], [[selvitä]]
*German: [[überleben]]
*Greek: [[επιζώ]] (epizó), [[επιβιώνω]] (epivióno)
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[sobreviver]], [[perseverar]]
*Romanian: [[a supravieţui]]
*Russian: [[выживать]] (vyživát’)
*Slovene: [[živeti]]
*Swedish: [[leva]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Filipino}}: [[mabuhay]] (1), [[manirahan]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[生きる]] (ikiru) (1), [[住む]] (sumu) (2)
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[jîn]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[زندگی کردن|زِندِگی کَردَن]]}} (zendegi kærdæn)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[žiť]] (1, 2), [[bývať]] (2), [[prežiť]] (3), [[zažiť]] (3)
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[జీవించు]]
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[byw]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology===
See [[alive]]

===Pronunciation===
*AHD: līv
*IPA: /laɪv/
*SAMPA: /<tt>laIv</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-live-adj.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''live''' (''no {{compar}} or {{superl}}; used only attributively: see usage notes'')

# Having [[life]]; that is [[alive]]. Used attributively.
#:* The post office will not ship '''live''' animals.
# Of firearms or explosives, capable of causing harm.
#:* The air force practices dropping '''live''' bombs on the uninhabited island.
# {{context|circuitry}} Electrically [[charged]] or [[energized]], usually indicating that the item may cause [[electrocution]] if touched.
#:* Use caution when working near '''live''' wires.

====Usage notes====
* ''Live'' in the sense of "having life" is used only attributively (before a noun), as in "live animals". Predicatively (after the noun), ''alive'' is used, as in "be alive". ''Living'' may be used either attributively or predicatively.

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac-colon|having life}} [[living]]
*{{italbrac-colon|electrically charged}} [[hot]]

====Antonyms====
*{{italbrac-colon|having life}} [[dead]]
*{{italbrac-colon|capable of causing harm}} [[blank]], [[dummy]]
*{{italbrac-colon|electrically charged}} [[neutral]], [[dead]]

====Derived terms====
*[[lively]]

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

====Translations====

{{trans-top|having life}}
*Albanian: [[gjallë]]
*Breton: [[bev]]
*Catalan: [[viu]]
*Croatian: [[živ]]
*Dutch: [[levend]], [[levende]]
*Finnish: [[elävä]]
*French: [[vivant]]
*German:  [[lebend]]
*Greek: [[ζωντανός]] (zo[n]danós) {{m}}, [[ζωηρός]] (zoirós) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Hungarian: [[élő]]
*Irish: [[beo]]
*Italian: [[vivo]]
*Manx: [[bio]]
*Occitan: [[viu]]
*Old English: [[cwic]]
*Polish:  [[żywy]]
*Romanian: [[viu]]
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[biu]]
*Sardinian (Nugorese): [[bibu]]
*Slovene: [[živ]] {{m}}, [[živa]] {{f}}, [[živo]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[vivo]]
*Swedish: [[levande]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|capable of causing harm}}
*Dutch: [[scherp]], [[scherpe]]
*German: [[scharf]]
*Greek: [[άσκαστος]] (áskastos) {{m}}, [[άκαυστος]] (ákafstos) {{m}}, [[άκαυτος]] (ákaftos) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[skarp]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|electrically charged}}
*Greek: [[ηλεκτροφόρος]] (ilektrofóros) {{m}}, [[ρευματοφόρος]] (revmatofóros) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[jîndar]], [[sax]]
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: (1): [[živý]] {{m}}, [[živá]] {{f}}, [[živé]] {{n}}; (2): [[ostrý]] {{m}}, [[ostrá]] {{f}}, [[ostré]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''live'''

# Of an event, as it happens; in [[real time]]; [[direct]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|as it happens}}
*Czech: [[živě, v přímém přenose]]
*Dutch: [[rechtstreeks]]
*Finnish: [[suora]], [[live-]]
*French: [[en direct]]
*German: [[direkt]], live
*Greek: [[ζωντανά]] [ˌzo̞(n)daˈna], [[λάιβ]] [lajv]
*Italian: [[dal vivo]], live
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[生]]の ([[なま]]の)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[zindî]]
*Română: viu, a trăi
*Slovak: [[v priamom prenose]], [[naživo]]
*Slovene: [[v živo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[evil]]
*[[Levi]]
*[[vile]]
*[[veil]]

----
==Danish==

===Etymology===
Verbal form of the noun ''[[liv]]''

===Verb===
'''live''' (op)

# To [[enliven]].

[[Category:Danish verbs]]

----
==Italian==

===Noun===

'''live''' {{m}}
# A live musical [[performance]].

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[ang:live]]
[[de:live]]
[[et:live]]
[[el:live]]
[[es:live]]
[[fa:live]]
[[fr:live]]
[[io:live]]
[[id:live]]
[[it:live]]
[[kk:live]]
[[la:live]]
[[hu:live]]
[[nl:live]]
[[ja:live]]
[[pl:live]]
[[ru:live]]
[[fi:live]]
[[ta:live]]
[[vi:live]]
[[tr:live]]
[[zh:live]]