==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{rhymes|əʊkəʊ}}

===Etymology 1===
{{It.}}

====Adverb====
{{en-adj}}

# {{music}} A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher or lower.

===Etymology 2===
{{S.}} ''[[#spanish|loco]]'' "insane, crazy". From  {{Arab.}} ''[[lawqa]]'' "fool".

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{colloquial}} [[crazy]]

=====Quotations=====
*'''2003''': You know, I'm a little '''loco'''.  Kinda crazy, zany guy. &mdash; ''The New Yorker,'' 15 Dec 2003, p.56

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|crazy}}
*Finnish: [[hullu]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{botany}} A plant ''[[Astragalus hornii]]'' growing in the Southwestern United States, which is said to poison horses and cattle, first making them insane. The name is also given vaguely to several other species of the genus [[Astragalus]]. 

=====Synonyms=====
*[[loco weed]]

----

==[[Interlingua]]==

===Noun===
'''loco'''

# [[place|Place]], [[location]].

[[Category:Interlingua nouns]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''loco''' (''plural'' '''[[lochi]]''')

# A [[place]].
# A written passage.

====Synonyms====
*[[luogo]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

----

==Latin==

===Adverb===
'''loco'''

# {{rfv-sense}} In the place.

===Noun===
'''locō'''

# Ablative and dative singular of '''[[locus]]'''.

===Verb===
{{la-verb|loco|locō|locare|locāre|locavi|locāvī|locatum|locātum}}

# I [[put]], [[place]], [[set]]
# I [[arrange]], [[establish]]
# I [[lease]], [[hire]] out, [[lend]]

{{la-inflec-are|loc}}

====Descendants====
*English: [[locate]]

[[Category:Latin noun forms]]
[[Category:Latin adverbs]]

----

==Spanish==

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|f=loca}}

# [[crazy]], (asserting that something is out of place in the head).

===Noun===
'''loco''' {{m}} ('''[[loca]]''' {{f}})

# Someone who is [[crazy]].

====Related terms====
* [[locura]]

[[Category:Spanish adjectives]]
[[Category:Spanish nouns]]

[[de:loco]]
[[es:loco]]
[[fa:loco]]
[[fr:loco]]
[[io:loco]]
[[id:loco]]
[[it:loco]]
[[hu:loco]]
[[no:loco]]
[[ru:loco]]
[[fi:loco]]
[[vi:loco]]
[[zh:loco]]