==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|en|ɒləp}}
* {{hyphenation|en|lol|lop}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To walk or move with a [[bounce|bouncing]] or [[undulate|undulating]] motion and at an [[unhurried]] [[pace]].
#* '''1861''', "Chinese Slaves Adrift", in ''{{w|All the Year Round}}: A Weekly Journal'', Volume 5, [http://books.google.ru/books?id=6JVQAAAAcAAJ&dq=lollop&pg=PA251#v=onepage&q=lollop&f=false Page 251]
#*: Every available spyglass was directed towards strange sail. It appeared, as we all watched it, to '''lollop''' up and down, as it were, with the jerk of the sea, according to no regular motion of a ship or boat.
#* '''1902''', {{w|Rudyard Kipling}}, “How the Camel Got His Hump,” ''{{w|Just So Stories}}'',<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/32488/32488-h/32488-h.htm]</sup>
#*: And the Camel said ‘Humph!’ again; but no sooner had he said it than he saw his back, that he was so proud of, puffing up and puffing up into a great big '''lolloping''' humph.
#* '''1934''', {{w|George Orwell}}, ''{{w|Burmese Days}}'', Chapter 6,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks02/0200051.txt]</sup>
#*: With a timid, loutish movement the great beast turned aside, then lumbered off followed by the calf. The other buffalo also extricated itself from the slime and '''lolloped''' away.
#* '''1934''', {{w|Henry Handel Richardson}}, ''The End of a Childhood'', III,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks02/0200661h.html]</sup>
#*: And first they saw the red through the trees, and then the whole coach. And no wonder it was so long coming, the horses were only just '''''lolloping''''' along; because it wasn't the coach that carried the mails.
#* '''2013''', “Chelsea, Spurs in thrilling draw,” ''[[w:News24|Sport24]]'', 8 May, 2013,<sup>[http://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/Chelsea-Spurs-in-thrilling-draw-20130508]</sup>
#*: Collecting the ball midway inside his own half, the '''lolloping''' Togolese striker exploited generosity in the home defence by ambling downfield and then shaped a sumptuous shot into the top-right corner from 25 yards.
#* '''2016''', Neil McKim, “80 Years of TV theme tunes,” ''{{w|BBC Music Magazine}}'' online, 31 October, 2016,<sup>[https://web.archive.org/web/20161103160456/http://www.classical-music.com/article/80-years-television-theme-music]</sup>
#*: After a flamboyant snare drum roll intro, the catchy plinky-plonky piano melody is joined by '''lolloping''' xylophone and flutes.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To act [[lazily]], [[loll]], [[lie around]].
#* '''1748''', {{w|Tobias Smollett}}, ''{{w|The Adventures of Roderick Random}}'', Chapter 34,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/4085/4085-h/4085-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “Here’s fine discipline on-board, when such lazy, skulking sons of bitches as you are allowed, on pretence of sickness, to '''lollop''' at your ease, while your betters are kept to hard duty!”
#* '''1782''', {{w|Fanny Burney}}, ''[[w:Cecilia (Burney Novel)|Cecilia]]'', London: T. Payne & Son, Volume 3, Chapter 12, p. 146,<sup>[http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/011821890]</sup>
#*: Mr. Meadows, who was seated in the middle of the box, was '''lolloping''' upon the table with his customary ease, and picking his teeth with his usual inattention to all about him.
#* '''1827''', {{w|James Fenimore Cooper}}, ''{{w|The Prairie}}'', Chapter 11,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/6450/6450-h/6450-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “Your uncle is, and always will be, a dull calculator, Nell,” observed the mother, after a long pause in a conversation that had turned on the labours of the day; “a lazy hand at figures and foreknowledge is that said Ishmael Bush! Here he sat '''lolloping''' about the rock from light till noon, doing nothing but scheme—scheme—scheme— {{...}}”

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To walk or move}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|шляя се}}
{{trans-mid}}

{{trans-bottom}}