==English==

===Etymology===
A reduced form of {{m|en|to cut a long story short}} and {{m|en|to make a long story short}}.

===Adverb===
{{head|en|adverb}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} Introducing a short version of, or simply the conclusion of, a relevant story.
#: ''Anyway, '''long story short''', I totally screwed up today.''
#* '''1994''', [[w:Eric Bogosian|Eric Bogosian]], ''Pounding Nails in the Floor With My Forehead'', Theatre Communications Group, {{ISBN|1-55936-096-8}}, page 40,
#*: So anyway, '''long story short''' . . . <!-- ellipsis in original --> Kenny was always gambling. And six years ago, he bought this lottery ticket and he won. Not much. A million bucks. After taxes, that’s like five hundred thousand dollars. I’m thinking party time.
#* '''1999''', Dennis Hensley, ''Misadventures in [[w:Area code 213|the (213)]]'',<sup >[http://books.google.com/books?id=EmUaVkRgMLsC ]</sup > HarperCollins, {{ISBN|0-688-17128-1}}, page 74,
#*: “So '''long story short''',” Damon continues, obviously enjoying his newfound status as [[w:Magic Kingdom|Magic Kingdom]] iconoclast, “it got back to the director what I did and then it went all the way to [[w:Michael Eisner|Eisner]]’s office. […]”
#* '''2005''' March 1, ''[[w:Scrubs (TV series)|Scrubs]]'' (television series), season 4, episode 19 “My Best Laid Plans”,
#*: <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Dr. Kelso:</span> '''Long story short''', I'm on the hook for sending Trong Tri Kelso to college and he doesn't want to go to a state school.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|it's a long story}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Introducing a short version of, or simply the conclusion of, an involved story}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|القصة بإختصار}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|長話短說|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|长话短说|tr=coeng4 waa6 dyun2 syut3|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|長話短說|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|长话短说|tr=chánghuàduǎnshuō|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|lang verhaal kort}}
* French: {{t|fr|pour faire court}}, {{t+check|fr|en résumé}}
* German: {{t|de|kurz gesagt}}, {{t|de|kurz und gut}}, {{t+|de|lange Rede, kurzer Sinn}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|خلاصه ، القصه ، آخر سر اینکه|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|trocando em miúdos}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|коро́че говоря́}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|en resumen}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uzun lafın kısası}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English speech-act adverbs]]