==English==

===Etymology===

{{compound|loop|hole}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈluːphəʊl/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[method]] of [[escape]], especially an [[ambiguity]] or [[exception]] in a rule that can be [[exploit]]ed in order to avoid its effect.
#*'''1839,''' Charles Dickens, ''Oliver Twist'':
#*:{{...|Coupling the poor girl's intelligence with my previous knowledge, and the result of our good friend's inquiries on the spot,}} I left him no '''loophole''' of escape, and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day.
#*'''2002,''' ''Two Weeks Notice'' (movie):
#*:You have a contract that says you will work until Island Towers is finalized, which I interpret as completion of construction, or I can stop you working elsewhere. And there's no '''loopholes''', because you drafted it and you're the best.
# A [[slit]] in a castle wall. Later: any similar [[window]] for shooting a weapon or letting in light.
#*'''1719''', Daniel Defoe, ''Robinson Crusoe'':
#*:... and having a fair '''loophole''', as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
#*'''1809''', Maria Edgeworth, ''The Absentee'':
#*:There was a '''loophole''' in this wall, to let the light in, just at the height of a person's head, who was sitting near the chimney.
#*'''1949''', George Orwell, ''Nineteen Eighty-Four'', page 25:
#*:The sun had shifted round, and the myriad windows of the Ministry of Truth, with the light no longer shining on them, looked grim as the '''loophole'''s of a fortress.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|method of escape}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|porsaanreikä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|échappatoire|f}}
* German: [[Ausflucht]] {{f}}, [[Hintertürchen]] {{n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|פרצה|tr=pirtsa}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|scappatoia|f}}, {{t+|it|cavillo|m}}
* Japanese: [[抜け道]] (ぬけみち, nukemichi)
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[smutthull]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|brecha}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лазейка|f|tr=laz'éjka}}, {{t+|ru|увёртка|f|tr=uv'órtka}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|escapatoria|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kryphål|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slit in a castle wall}}
* Finnish: [[ampuma-aukko]]
* French: {{t+|fr|meurtrière|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schießscharte|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|feritoia|f}}
* Japanese: [[銃眼]] (じゅうがん, jūgan)
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[skyteskår]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|seteira|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|амбразура|f|tr=ambrazúra}}, {{t+|ru|бойница|f|tr=bojníca}}
* Swedish: [[skottglugg]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|loophol|ed}}

# {{military}} To prepare a [[building]] for defense by preparing slits or holes through which to fire on [[attacker]]s
#*{{quote-book|year=1896|author=Arthur Conan Doyle|title=The Exploits Of Brigadier Gerard|chapter=|edition=|url=http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/11247
|passage=The lower windows were barricaded, and the whole building '''loopholed''' for musketry fire. }}
#*{{quote-book|year=1907|author=A. E. W. Mason|title=The Broken Road|chapter=|edition=|url=http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/10755
|passage=The doors were barricaded, the shutters closed upon the windows and '''loopholed''', and provisions were brought in from the outhouses. }}
#*{{quote-book|year=1915|author=W. H. L. Watson|title=Adventures of a Despatch Rider|chapter=|edition=|url=http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/16868
|passage=The Germans were '''loopholing''' it for defence. }}
[[Category:English words with consonant pseudo-digraphs]]

[[fa:loophole]]
[[fr:loophole]]
[[io:loophole]]
[[kn:loophole]]
[[my:loophole]]
[[sv:loophole]]
[[te:loophole]]
[[vi:loophole]]
[[zh:loophole]]