==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|kami}}

# An [[animistic]] [[God]] or [[spirit]] in the [[Shinto]] religion of [[Japan]].
# A basic [[origami]] [[paper]], usually printed with a colour or pattern on one side.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a God or spirit in the Shinto religion of Japan}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|神|tr=kami}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[maki#English|maki]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ms|id}} {{term|kami|lang=ms}}, from {{etyl|poz-mly-pro|id}} {{term/t|poz-mly-pro|*kami}}, from {{etyl|poz-pro|id}} {{term/t|poz-pro|*kami}}, from {{etyl|map-pro|id}} {{term/t|map-pro|*kami}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kami/|lang=id}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|id|pronoun}}

# [[we]] (exclusive); I and other(s) but not those I am addressing.
#: ''"Kami sudah pergi ke pasar''": "We have been to the market"
# [[us]] (exclusive); me and other(s) but not those I am addressing.
#: ''Ibu: "Kamu sekalian sudah di mandi?"'' Mother: "Have you all bathed yet?"
#: Anak-anak: "Kami?" Children: "Us?"
# [[our]] (exclusive); my and of other(s) but not of those I am addressing.
#: ''"Adalah cicak besar di dinding kamar hotel kami: tolong bantu di ambil "'': "There is a big gecko in our hotel room: please help have it removed."
# [[ours]] (if used with [[milik]], [[punya|kepunyaan]], etc.)
#: ''"Hak Milik tanah bangsa Indonesia hanya untuk kami sekalian"'': "It is only we [Indonesians] who have the right to own this Indonesian land"

====Related terms====
* [[kita]]

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|かみ}}

----

==Malay==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|poz-mly-pro|ms}} {{term/t|poz-mly-pro|*kami}}, from {{etyl|poz-pro|ms}} {{term/t|poz-pro|*kami}}, from {{etyl|map-pro|ms}} {{term/t|map-pro|*kami}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kami/|lang=ms}}
* {{rhymes|ami|mi|i|lang=ms}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|ms|pronoun}}

# [[we]], [[us]], [[our]] {{qualifier|exclusive}}
# [[I]], [[me]], [[my]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|ms|kita|gloss=inclusive}}

===See also===
{{ms-personal pronouns}}

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|sh}} {{term/t|sla-pro|*kamy}}, preserving the reflex of word-final */y/, which was lost in standard words {{term/t|sh|kȃm}} and {{term/t|sh|kȁmēn}}.

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|r|ками}}

# {{context|regional|obsolete|lang=sh}} [[stone]]

===References===
* {{R:sh:Skok1971|vol=2|page=26}}

----

==Tagalog==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|poz-pro|tl}} {{term/t|poz-pro|*kami}}, from {{etyl|map-pro|tl}} {{term/t|map-pro|*kami}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kaˈmɪ/|lang=tl}} or {{IPA|/kaˈmɛ/|lang=tl}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* {{audio|Tl-PH-kami.ogg|Audio|lang=tl}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|tl|pronoun}}

# [[we|We]]; [[us]]—exclusive of person spoken to.
#: ''Nagtatrabaho '''kami''' sa isang kumpanya. Ikaw?''
#:: '''We''' work at a company. You?

====Related terms====
* [[namin]]

===See also===
* [[tayo]]

[[de:kami]]
[[el:kami]]
[[es:kami]]
[[fr:kami]]
[[hr:kami]]
[[io:kami]]
[[id:kami]]
[[it:kami]]
[[jv:kami]]
[[mg:kami]]
[[ms:kami]]
[[my:kami]]
[[nl:kami]]
[[ja:kami]]
[[pt:kami]]
[[ru:kami]]
[[simple:kami]]
[[sh:kami]]
[[su:kami]]
[[fi:kami]]
[[tl:kami]]
[[ta:kami]]
[[chr:kami]]
[[tr:kami]]
[[vi:kami]]
[[zh:kami]]