{{also|Kata|kąta}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ja}} {{term|sc=Jpan|型||pattern, model|lang=ja}}.
In English use since the 1950s.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{martial arts}} A sequence of positions and movements used in the practice of many [[martial art]]s.
#* '''1979''', Masatoshi Nakayama, ''Best Karate: Heian, Tekki'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=fDJwrR93rZAC&pg=PA12&dq=%22kata%22+-intitle:kata&hl=en&ei=xMGRTt_0I6v4mAW0yam1Cg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=%22kata%22%20-intitle%3Akata&f=false page 12],
#*: About fifty '''kata''', or "formal exercises," are practiced at the present time, some having been passed down from generation to generation, others having been developed fairly recently.
#* '''2006''', Kelley MacAulay, Bobbie Kalman, ''Karate in Action'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=dP3LEiLjPYQC&pg=PA22&dq=%22kata%7Ckatas%22+-intitle:kata&hl=en&ei=GsaRToOCEeiTiAe0h6WVDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q=%22kata%7Ckatas%22%20-intitle%3Akata&f=false page 22],
#*: '''Katas''' are a series of motions, such as punches, strikes, and kicks, arranged in a specific pattern. The pattern allows the motions to flow into one another. A student must learn a new '''kata''' to advance to each new belt level.
#* '''2009''', Thomas W. Hanlon, ''The Sports Rules Book'', [[w:Human Kinetics (publisher)|Human Kinetics]], [http://books.google.com/books?id=HJ0BeoJnbCUC&pg=PA161&dq=%22kata%22+-intitle:kata&hl=en&ei=4MORTpTRH6fFmAX01YSNAw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAzgK#v=onepage&q=%22kata%22%20-intitle%3Akata&f=false page 161],
#*: When the competitor's name is called, she stands on the designated line, bows to the panel of judges, and announces the name of the '''kata''' she will perform.{{...}}She then performs the '''kata'''. When she is finished, her opponent performs her '''kata'''. At the end of the second '''kata''', both return to the mat area to await the decision of the judging panel.
#* '''2010''', Kenji Tokitsu, ''The '''Katas''': The Meaning Behind the Movements''.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|κατά||downwards}}. Compare {{term|cata-|lang=en}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{abbreviation of|kata thermometer}}
# {{context|in combination}} A drop (in temperature).
#: [[kata thermometer]]; [[kata factor]]

====Adverb====
{{en-adv}}

# In a [[direction]] [[analogous]] to [[down]], but along the additional [[axis]] added by the [[fourth dimension]].
#* '''1985''', Rudy von Bitter Rucker, ''The Fourth Dimension: A Guided Tour of the Higher Universes'' (page 43)
#*: Your right half would move ana, let us say, and your left half would move '''kata'''. The two halves would, in their parallel spaces, move past the plane of rotation, and then they would swing back into our space.
#* '''2005''', ''Animation journal'' (volumes 13-15)
#*: Added to the conventional FPS control keys are two extra keys that move the player in ana and '''kata''' direction in 4d space. If you go in this extra direction the space around you changes, the room transforms.

=====Antonyms=====
* [[ana]]

===Anagrams===
* [[taka#English|taka]]

----

==Chickasaw==

===Pronoun===
{{head|cic|pronoun}}

# {{context|interrogative|lang=cic}} [[who]]

----

==Finnish==

===Verb===
'''kata'''

# {{fi-form of|kattaa|type=verb|mood=indicative|tense=present connegative}}
# {{fi-form of|kattaa|type=verb|pr=second-person|pl=singular|mood=imperative|tense=present}}
# {{fi-form of|kattaa|type=verb|pr=second-person|pl=singular|mood=imperative|tense=present connegative}}

===Anagrams===
* [[akat#Finnish|akat]], [[taka#Finnish|taka]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
{{id-noun}}

# [[word]]

----

==Japanese==
: ''See also: [[katana]]

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=かた}}

# [[方]]: [[manner]], [[way]], [[person]]
# [[型]]: [[type]], [[form]], [[pattern]]
# [[形]]: [[form]], [[shape]]
# [[肩]]: [[shoulder]]
# [[潟]]: [[lagoon]]
# [[過多]]: [[excess]]
# [[夥多]]: [[plenty]]

===Kanji reading===
'''kata''' (hiragana [[かた]])

* [[片]]
* [[難]]
* [[堅]]
* [[硬]]
* [[固]]
* [[旁]]
* [[傾]]
* [[塊]]
* [[語]]
* [[騙]]

[[Category:Japanese kanji readings]]

----

==Malay==

===Etymology===
From Sanskrit ''kátha''

===Noun===
{{head|ms|noun}}

# [[word]]

----

==Novial==

===Etymology===
From [[kate]], [[cat]].
Root: [[kat-]].
Morphemes: [[kat-]] + [[-a]] (1).

===Noun===
{{head|nov|noun}}

# [[female]] [[cat]]

====Related terms====
{|
|[[kate]] ||   { n }   ||[[cat]]
|-
|[[kato]] ||   { n }   || [[tomcat]], [[male]] [[cat]]
|-
|[[katyune]] ||   { n }   || [[kitten]]
|-
|[[katal]] ||   { adj }   || [[feline]]
|-
|}

----

==Pitjantjatjara==

===Noun===
{{head|pjt|noun}}

# [[head]], [[mind]]

----
==Rapa Nui==

===Verb===
{{head|rap|verb}}

# [[laugh]]
----

==Swahili==

===Verb===
{{head|sw|verb}}

# [[cut]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
'''kata'''

# {{genitive of|kat|lang=vo}}

[[ast:kata]]
[[br:kata]]
[[cs:kata]]
[[cy:kata]]
[[de:kata]]
[[el:kata]]
[[eu:kata]]
[[fr:kata]]
[[ko:kata]]
[[io:kata]]
[[id:kata]]
[[it:kata]]
[[sw:kata]]
[[ku:kata]]
[[lo:kata]]
[[lt:kata]]
[[hu:kata]]
[[mg:kata]]
[[ms:kata]]
[[ja:kata]]
[[pl:kata]]
[[ru:kata]]
[[fi:kata]]
[[sv:kata]]
[[ta:kata]]
[[tr:kata]]
[[vi:kata]]
[[zh:kata]]