==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|mi|-}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|kehua}}

# {{lb|en|New Zealand}} A [[ghost]]; an [[evil]] [[spirit]].
#* '''1906''', ''Transactions of the Royal Society of New Zealand'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=rC6-CwFDT4IC&q=%22kehua%22&dq=%22kehua%22&hl=en&ei=NpehTbLFIM_BcZmDxf0B&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCQ page 228],
#*: An old man explained to me, “The spirits of dead persons are afflicting such sufferers. These '''''kehua''''' control them. If the afflicted person survives he will be the medium of that [evil] spirit. Some people become demented when so affected.”
#* '''1924''', [[w:Elsdon Best|Elsdon Best]], ''Māori Religion and Mythology: being an account of the cosmogony, anthropogeny, religious beliefs and rites, magic and folk lore of the Māori folk of New Zealand'', Part 2, 2005, Te Papa Press, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=GZLXAAAAMAAJ&q=%22kehua%22&dq=%22kehua%22&hl=en&ei=fqKhTd3oA5m0cK2BsYAC&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAzgK page 42],
#*: The other aspect of the "etheric double" of the theosophist, that is the wraith or apparitional spirit seen after the death of the body, is the '''''kehua''''' of the Maori.
#* '''2001''', Patricia Grace, Irihapeti Ramsden, Jonathan Dennis, ''The Silent Migration: Ngati Poneke Young Maori Club, 1937-1948'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=WRSCu-TOufIC&pg=PA17&dq=%22kehua%22&hl=en&ei=5qmhTfvMN4HZcabYgP4B&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBjgo#v=onepage&q=%22kehua%22&f=false page 17],
#*: We'd say, 'Ready? Steady. Go!' And we'd run past his bedroom. Grandpa would be in his armchair looking out. We'd flash past crying out, ‘'''Kehua'''! '''Kehua'''!’

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aehku|Hauke}}

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
{{unk|fi|title=Uncertain}}, possibly from {{m|fi|kehä}} or {{m|fi|kehkeä}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{fi-pronunciation|*}}

===Verb===
{{fi-verb}}

# {{lb|fi|transitive|_|+ partitive}} to [[praise]], [[tout]]
#: {{ux|fi|Kuinka '''kehun''' naista kauniiksi?|How should I '''praise''' a woman's beauty?}}
#: {{ux|fi|Hän '''kehui''' minua artikkelistani.|He '''praised''' me for my article.}}

====Conjugation====
{{fi-conj-sanoa|keh|||u|a}}

====Derived terms====
* nouns: {{l|fi|kehu}}
* adjectives: {{l|fi|kehuttava}}
* verbs: ''frequentative'' {{l|fi|kehuskella}}, ''momentane'' {{l|fi|kehaista}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|fi|a=aehku|uhkea}}