==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|xno|en}}, from a {{etyl|ONF.|en}} variant of {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|chenil}} (whence modern French {{m|fr|chenil}}), from {{etyl|VL.|en}} *''canile'', ultimately from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|canis}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{rhymes|ɛnəl|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A house or [[shelter]] for a [[dog]].
#: ''&ndash; We want to look at the dog '''kennels'''.<br>&ndash; That's the pet department, second floor.''
# A facility at which dogs are reared or boarded.
#: ''The town dog-catcher operates the '''kennel''' for strays.''
#: ''She raises registered Dalmatians at her '''kennel'''. ''
# {{label|en|UK}} The dogs kept at such a facility; a pack of hounds.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
#* '''1843''', [[w:Thomas_Carlyle|Thomas Carlyle]], ''[[:w:Past and Present (book)|Past and Present]]'', book 3, ch. IX, ''Working Aristocracy''
#*: A world of mere Patent-Digesters will soon have nothing to digest: such world ends, and by Law of Nature must end, in ‘over-population;’ in howling universal famine, ‘impossibility,’ and suicidal madness, as of endless dog-'''kennels''' run rabid.
# The hole of a [[fox]] or other animal.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|shelter for a dog}} [[doghouse]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|shelter}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|بَيْت|m}}, {{t|ar|بَيْت اَلْكَلْب|m}}
* Basque: {{t+|eu|txakurtegi}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|狗屋|tr=gǒuwū|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|kennel|m}}, {{t|nl|hondenhok|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|hundejo}}, {{t|eo|hundujo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koirankoppi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chenil|m}}, {{t+|fr|niche|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hundehütte|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σκυλόσπιτο|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מלונה|f|tr=melu'na|sc=Hebr}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hundakofi|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|cró madra|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|canile|m}}, {{t+|it|cuccia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|犬小屋|tr=いぬごや, inugoya}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|niche|f}}, {{t|nrf|câniche|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|개집|sc=Kore}}
* Malay:
*: Rumi: {{t|ms|rumah anjing}}, {{t|ms|rumah asu}}
*: Jawi: {{t|ms|رومه انجيڠ|sc=Arab}}, {{t|ms|رومه اسو|sc=Arab}}
* Mansi: {{t|mns|āмпкол}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|łééchąąʼí bighan}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|hundehus|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|buda|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|canil|m}}, {{t|pt|casota|f}}, {{t|pt|casinha de cachorro|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|конура́|f}}, {{qualifier|соба́чья}} {{t+|ru|бу́дка|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|псећа кућица|f}}, {{t|sh|пасја кућица|f}}, {{t|sh|штенара|f}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|pseća kućica|f}}, {{t|sh|pasja kućica|f}}, {{t+|sh|štenara|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|perrera|f}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|dogadom}}, {{t|vo|dogalecek}}, {{t|vo|dogadomil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|facility}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|hundejo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kennel}}, {{t|fi|koiratarha}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chenil|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zwinger|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κυνοτροφείο|n}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tempat perlindungan anjing}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|canil|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пса́рня|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|псетарник|m}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|psetarnik|m}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|dogibridöp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pack of hounds}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|koiralauma}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hole of an animal}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kolo}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|kennels|kenneling|pres_ptc2=kennelling|kenneled|past2=kennelled}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To house or [[board]] a dog (or less commonly another animal).
#: ''While we're away our friends will '''kennel''' our pet poodle.''
# {{label|en|intransitive}} To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox.
#* L'Estrange
#*: The dog '''kennelled''' in a hollow tree.

===Etymology 2===
See {{m|en|channel}}, {{m|en|canal}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{rfp|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} A gutter at the edge of a street.
#* '''1899''', Guy Boothby, ''Pharos the Egyptian''
#*: A biting wind whistled through the streets, the pavements were dotted with umbrella-laden figures, the '''kennels''' ran like mill-sluices, while the roads were only a succession of lamp-lit puddles through which the wheeled traffic splashed continuously.
"Soon shall the Kennels swell with rapid Streams,
And rush in muddy Torrents to the Thames."
JOHN GAY (1685–1732) "Trivia: Or, the Art of Walking the Streets of London" (1716). Book I
#: {{rfquotek|Bishop Hall}}
# {{label|en|obsolete}} A [[puddle]].

===External links===
* {{projectlink|1911|Kennel}}

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
< {{etyl|VL.|fi}} *''canile'' via Germanic languages, ultimately from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|fi|canis}}

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# [[#English|kennel]] {{gloss|facility at which dogs are reared or boarded}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|kennel|||ä|i=0}}

====Synonyms====
* [[koiratarha]]

[[da:kennel]]
[[et:kennel]]
[[eo:kennel]]
[[fr:kennel]]
[[ko:kennel]]
[[hy:kennel]]
[[io:kennel]]
[[it:kennel]]
[[kn:kennel]]
[[ku:kennel]]
[[lt:kennel]]
[[hu:kennel]]
[[ml:kennel]]
[[my:kennel]]
[[pl:kennel]]
[[ru:kennel]]
[[simple:kennel]]
[[fi:kennel]]
[[sv:kennel]]
[[ta:kennel]]
[[te:kennel]]
[[chr:kennel]]
[[uk:kennel]]
[[vi:kennel]]
[[zh:kennel]]