{{also|kérnél}}
==English==
===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*ǵerh₂-}}
From , , , from , from , diminutive of , equivalent to . Cognate with , , , . Related also to .

===Pronunciation===
*
*
*
*
*

===Noun===

# The center, or essence of an object or system.
#:
#:
# The central (usually edible) part of a , especially once the hard  has been removed.
# A single  or grain, especially of  or wheat.
# The  of certain fruits, such as peaches or plums.
# A small mass around which other matter is concreted; a ; a concretion or hard lump in the flesh.
# The central part of many computer operating systems which manages the system's resources and the communication between hardware and software components.
#:
#:
#: {{ux|en|The Linux '''kernel''' is open-source.}}
# The core engine of any complex software system.
# A function used to define an .
#: {{ux|en|The Dirichlet '''kernel''' convolved with a function yields its Fourier series approximation.}}
# A set of pairs of a mapping's domain which are mapped to the same value.
# For a given  (especially a linear map between ), the set of elements in the  which are mapped to ; {{lb|en|formally}} given ''f''&nbsp;:&nbsp;''X''&nbsp;→&nbsp;''Y'', the set {''x''&nbsp;∈&nbsp;''X''&nbsp;:&nbsp;''f''(''x'')&nbsp;=&nbsp;0}.
#:
#:
# ''For a category with'' : the equalizer of a given morphism and the zero morphism which is parallel to that given morphism.
# The of members of a fuzzy set that are fully included (i.e., whose grade of membership is 1).
# The human clitoris.
#* '''2014''', Karyn Gerrard, Irene Preston, Lotchie Burton ''et al'', ''Summer Heat: 10 Spicy Romances That Sizzle''
#*: Using the blunt end of one of the vibraphone mallets, he pried open her folds. With the balled end of the other, he rhythmically rolled over her '''kernel'''.
# The nucleus and electrons of an atom excluding its valence electrons.
#* '''1916''', Gilbert N. Lewis, “The Atom and The Molecule,” ''Journal of the American Chemical Society'' 38(4) p 768.
#*: 1. In every atom is an essential '''kernel''' which remains unaltered in all ordinary chemical changes and which possesses an excess of positive charges corresponding in number to the ordinal number of the group in the periodic table to which the element belongs.
* {{sense|core or essence}} See also Thesaurus:gist

====Derived terms====
====Translations====
===Verb===

# To enclose within a kernel
# To crenelate

===Anagrams===
*

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
From .

===Pronunciation===
*
*
*

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ek}}

# {{lb|hu|computing}} [[kernel#English|kernel]] {{gloss|the central part of many computer operating systems}}
#: {{syn|hu|rendszermag}}

====Declension====
{{hu-infl-nom|kernele|e|-}}{{hu-pos-etek|kernel||ei}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Middle English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|enm|cernel|curnel|kernell|kirnel|karnel|kurnel|kurnele|kyrnel|kyrnell|cornel}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|enm|ang|cyrnel}}, from {{inh|enm|gmw-pro|*kurnil}}; equivalent to {{af|enm|corn|-el|pos2=agentive suffix|id2=agentive}}. Some forms are influenced by {{m|enm|corn}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|enm|/ˈkɛrnəl/|/ˈkirnəl/|/ˈkurnəl/|/ˈkɔrnəl/}}

===Noun===
{{enm-noun|kerneles}}

# The [[seed]], [[grain]] or [[stone]] of a [[fruit]] or [[nut]].
# {{lb|enm|by extension}} A [[granule]]; a small [[grain]], [[flake]], or [[ball]].
# {{lb|enm|figurative}} The [[fundamental]], [[superior]] or [[essential]] part.
# {{lb|enm|anatomy}} A [[organ]] responsible for production of [[substances]].
# {{lb|enm|medicine}} A [[distend]]ed [[organ]] or [[growth]].

====Derived terms====
{{der2|enm
|kernellen
|kirnelly
}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|en|kernel}}
* {{desc|sco|kirnel}}; {{l|sco|churnel}}

====References====
* {{R:MED Online|entry=kirnel|pos=n|id=MED24349 |accessdate=2018-07-06}}

[[Category:enm:Fruits]]
[[Category:enm:Grains]]
[[Category:enm:Spices]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|fro|crenel}}

===Etymology===
{{rfe|fro}}.

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m}}

# [[crenel]] {{gloss|space in a battlement from which weapons may be used on an incoming enemy}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|en|crenel|bor=1}}
* {{desc|fr|créneau}}

===References===
* {{R:Godefroy|crenel|supplement=1}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
{{ubor|pt|en|kernel}}.

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{lb|pt|computing}} {{l|en|kernel}} {{gloss|central part of certain operating systems}}
#: {{syn|pt|núcleo}}