==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|carky}} {{defdate|19th century}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|hi|en}} {{term|ख़ाकी|sc=Deva|lang=hi}} / {{term|خاکی|sc=ur-Arab|tr=xākī|lang=ur}}, from {{etyl|fa|en}} {{term|خاکی|tr=xâki|sc=fa-Arab||dusty, earthy, earth-colored|lang=fa}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Aus|NZ|UK}} {{enPR|kä-k'ē}}, {{IPA|/ˈkɑː.ki/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːki|lang=en}}
* {{a|Canada}} {{enPR|kär-k'ē|kä-k'ē|kă-k'ē}}, {{IPA|/ˈkɑɹ.ki/|/ˈkɑː.ki/|/ˈkæki/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɑɹki|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|kă-k'ē}}, {{IPA|/ˈkæ.ki/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æki|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A dull, [[yellow]]ish-[[brown]] [[color|colour]], the colour of [[dust]].
#* '''1899''', Rudyard Kipling, ''The Absent-Minded Beggar''
#*: When you've shouted "Rule Britannia", when you've sung "God Save The Queen",<br>When you've finished killing Kruger with your mouth;<br>Will you kindly drop a shilling in my little tambourine<br>For a gentleman in '''khaki''' ordered South?
#: {{color panel|khaki (Pantone)|A38F5D}}
#: {{color panel|khaki (HTML)|F0E68C}}
# [[khaki green|Khaki green]], a dull green colour.
#* '''1921''', [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=aKoMAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA54#v=onepage&q&f=true ''War work of the Bureau of Standards''], no. 46, page 54.
#*: The English Government for a long time has used a type of pigmented dope cover, '''khaki''' colored by iron pigments and lampblack, which is called P. C. 10.
#* '''2007''', Yuji Matsuki, American Fighters Over Europe: Colors & Markings of USAAF Fighters in WWII, page 4, ISBN 0890247110.
#*: At the end of World War I, the U.S. Army Air Service painted everything '''khaki'''. This '''khaki''' was practically the same as British PC10 and can be considered the basis of the later olive drab color.
#* '''2010''', Martin Windrow, ''French Foreign Legion: Infantry and Cavalry since 1945'', page 52, ISBN 1855326213.
#*: In these notes we have used the British rather than the US terms for colours: i.e. ''''khaki'''' here means the drab brown - US 'olive drab' - used for woolen uniforms and 'khaki drill' for the pale yellowish tan - US 'khaki' - used for lightweight summer/tropical dress.
#* ''Op. cit.'', page 56
#*: The very loose seroual trousers were made in both sand-khaki drill, and in winter-weight '''khaki''' wool for wear with the M1946 battledress blouse.
#: {{color panel|khaki green|707844}}
# A strong [[cloth]] of [[wool]] or [[cotton]], often used for [[military]] or other [[uniform]]s.
# {{context|rare|lang=en}} A [[soldier]] wearing a khaki uniform.
# {{context|South Africa|slang|lang=en}} A [[British]] person (from the colour of the uniform of British troops).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|yellowish-brown colour}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|caqui|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|卡其色|tr=kǎqísè|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|黃褐色|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|黄褐色|tr=huánghésè|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|khaki}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kaki|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Kaki|n}}, {{t|de|Khaki|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|חָקִי|m|tr=khakí|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ख़ाकी|tr=xākī|sc=Deva}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cachi|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|カーキ色|tr=kāki-iro|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|kaki|m}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|खाकी|m|tr=khākī|sc=Deva}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|خاکی|tr=xâki|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|cáqui}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|kaki}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ха́ки|n}}, {{t|ru|цвет ха́ки|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|caqui|m}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|خاکی|tr=xākī|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|màu kaki}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|khaki green}}

{{trans-top|strong cloth of wool or cotton}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|legerkledij|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|khaki}}, {{t|fi|khakikangas}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cachi|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|kaki|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|vải kaki}}, {{t|vi|vải khaki}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Dust-coloured; of the colour of dust.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|dust-coloured}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|كَاكِي}}, {{t|ar|خَاكِي}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|黃褐色|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|黄褐色|tr=huánghé-sè|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|kakikleurig}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|khakinvärinen}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ხაკი|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|ხაკისფერი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|kaki}}, {{t|de|khaki}}, {{t+|de|kakifarben}}, {{t+|de|khakifarben}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ख़ाकी|tr=xākī}}
* Interlingua: khaki, de color khaki
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cachi|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|カーキ色|tr=kāki-iro}}
* Maori: {{t|mi| pākā kōrito}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|خاکی|tr=xâki}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|cáqui}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|kaki}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ха́ки}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|خاکی|tr=xākī}}
* Vietnamese: [[màu]] [[kaki]], màu khaki
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[khaki-tile]]
* [[khaki green]]

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Colors]]

[[Category:English terms derived from Urdu]]
[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
from {{etyl|en|de}} {{term|khaki|lang=en}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|de|adjective}}

# being dust-coloured

[[Category:de:Browns]]
[[Category:de:Colors]]

[[cs:khaki]]
[[et:khaki]]
[[fa:khaki]]
[[fr:khaki]]
[[ko:khaki]]
[[hy:khaki]]
[[io:khaki]]
[[ku:khaki]]
[[hu:khaki]]
[[mg:khaki]]
[[ml:khaki]]
[[my:khaki]]
[[pl:khaki]]
[[ro:khaki]]
[[ru:khaki]]
[[simple:khaki]]
[[fi:khaki]]
[[sv:khaki]]
[[ta:khaki]]
[[vi:khaki]]
[[zh:khaki]]