{{also|kick-off|kickoff}}
==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|kicks off|kicking off|kicked off}}

# {{context|ambitransitive|lang=en}} To make the first [[kick]] in a game or part of a game.
#: {{usex|The players '''kick off''' for the third quarter and the clock starts.|lang=en}}
# {{context|idiomatic|ambitransitive|lang=en}} To start; to [[launch]].
#: {{usex|Let's '''kick off''' this project with a planning meeting.|lang=en}}
#* '''2013''', Louise Taylor, ''English talent gets left behind as Premier League keeps importing'' (in ''The Guardian'', 20 August 2013)[http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2013/aug/19/english-talent-premier-league-importing]
#*: Not since Coventry in 1992 has a Premier League side '''kicked off''' a campaign with an all-English XI but things have reached the point where, of the 61 signings who have cost the elite division's 20 clubs a transfer fee this summer, only 12 have involved Englishmen.
# To [[dismiss]]; to [[expel]]; to remove from a position.
#: {{usex|I got '''kicked off''' the team after a string of poor performances|lang=en}}
# {{context|idiomatic|colloquial|euphemistic|lang=en}} To die or quit permanently.
#: {{usex|It's a wonder that old dog hasn't '''kicked off''' yet.|lang=en}}
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} To shut down or [[turn off]] suddenly.
#: {{usex|The washer was working fine until it '''kicked off''' in the middle of a cycle.|lang=en}}
# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} To suddenly become more active.
#: {{usex|The party '''kicked off''' when the third bottle of wine was opened.|lang=en}}
#* '''2007''', Robert Ortiz, ''A Walking Distance'', AuthorHouse (ISBN 9781434325600), page 177
#*: I understood that I was missing out on a lot of his life and if the war really '''kicked off''' I was going to be gone for an even longer amount of time. 
# {{context|US|idiomatic|ranching|slang|lang=en}} To force the weaning of a bovine cow's calf by restricting the calf's access to its mother's udders. Used figuratively or literally.
#: {{usex|A week after we '''kicked off''' her calf that cow was still bawling.|lang=en}}
# {{context|UK|idiomatic|colloquial|lang=en}} To be overcome with anger, to start an argument or a fight.
#: {{usex|When she called him a drunk, it was the last straw. He just '''kicked off'''.|lang=en}}
# {{context|UK|idiomatic|colloquial|impersonal|lang=en}} To have a fight or argument start.
#: {{usex|It really '''kicked off''' in town when the team lost.|lang=en}}
#* '''2010''', Kenny Sansom, ''To Cap It All'', John Blake Publishing (ISBN 9781843586920)
#*: Suddenly it all kicked off on the terraces as horrendous violence and disgraceful  scenes were picked up by television cameras.

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (off)]]

[[et:kick off]]
[[fr:kick off]]
[[ku:kick off]]
[[my:kick off]]
[[pl:kick off]]
[[ru:kick off]]
[[fi:kick off]]