{{also|kickaround}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|kickaround}}
* {{l|en|kick-around}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An informal game of [[football]], [[rugby]] or similar sports.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|informal game}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pallottelu}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|kicks around|kicking around|kicked around}}

# To [[abuse]] or [[mistreat]]; to [[bully]]; to be rough with.
#: ''Don't be afraid to '''kick''' it '''around''' a little. It is sturdy.''
#* {{quote-web
|en
|url=https://www.nixonfoundation.org/2017/11/55-years-ago-last-press-conference/
|year=1962
|title=55 Years Ago — “The Last Press Conference”
|work={{w|Richard Nixon Foundation}}
|author={{w|Richard Nixon}}
}}
#*:I leave you gentlemen now, and you will write it. You will interpret. That’s your right. But as I leave you I want you to know—just think how much you’re going to be missing. You won’t have Nixon to '''kick around''' anymore, because gentlemen, this is my last press conference, and it will be the one in which I have welcomed the opportunity to test wits with you. I have always respected you. I have sometimes disagreed with you. But unlike some people, I’ve never cancelled a subscription to a paper, and also I never will.
# {{lb|en|usually in the [[present continuous]]}} To wander loose; to [[float around]]; to [[hang around]].
#: ''Is this your pen I found '''kicking around''' in my drawer?''
#* {{quote-song|en|author={{w|Roger Waters}}|title=[[w:Time (Pink Floyd song)|Time]]|album={{w|The Dark Side of the Moon}}|date=1973 March 1|artist={{w|Pink Floyd}}|text='''Kicking around''' on a piece of ground in your hometown}}
# {{lb|en|of an idea or proposal}} To be discussed informally; to be considered.
#: ''We've been '''kicking around''' your idea.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to mistreat}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|murjoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to wander loose}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyöriä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|trainer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal nouns]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (around)]]