{{also|Kick}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɪk/|[kʰɪk]|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-kick.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|kiken||to strike out with the foot}}, probably from {{etyl|non|en}} {{m|non|kikna||to sink at the knees}} and {{m|non|keikja||to bend backwards}} (compare {{cog|non|keikr||bent backwards, the belly jutting forward}}), from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*kaik-}}, {{m|gem-pro|*kaikaz||bent backwards}}, of uncertain origin. Perhaps from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*kī-}}, {{m|gem-pro|*kij-||to split, dodge, swerve sidewards}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*ǵeyə-||to sprout, shoot}}. Compare also {{cog|nl|kijken||to look}}, {{cog|gml|kīken||to look, watch}}. See {{l|en|keek}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[strike]] or [[hit]] with the [[foot]] or other extremity of the [[leg]].
#: ''Did you '''kick''' your brother?''
#* '''1877''', [[w:Anna Sewell|Anna Sewell]], ''[[s:Black Beauty/1|Black Beauty]]'', Chapter 1: My Early Home,
#*: Sometimes we had rather rough play, for they would frequently bite and '''kick''' as well as gallop.
#* '''1895''', [[w:George MacDonald|George MacDonald]], ''[[s:Lilith/Chapter XII|Lilith]]'', Chapter XII: Friends and Foes,
#*: I was cuffed by the women and '''kicked''' by the men because I would not swallow it.
#* '''1905''', [[w:Fielding H. Yost|Fielding H. Yost]], ''[[s:Football for Player and Spectator/Chapter 6|Football for Player and Spectator]]'', Chapter 6,
#*: A punt is made by letting the ball drop from the hands and '''kicking''' it just before it touches the ground.
#* '''1919''', [[w:Sherwood Anderson|Sherwood Anderson]], ''[[s:Winesburg, Ohio/The Teacher|Winesburg, Ohio]]'', The Teacher: concerning Kate Swift,
#*: Will Henderson, who had on a light overcoat and no overshoes, '''kicked''' the heel of his left foot with the toe of the right.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To make a sharp jerking movement of the leg, as to strike something.
#: ''He enjoyed the simple pleasure of watching the kickline '''kick'''.''
#* '''1904''', [[w:Stratemeyer Syndicate|Stratemeyer Syndicate]], ''[[s:The Bobbsey Twins/chapter2|The Bobbsey Twins]]'', Chapter II: Rope Jumping, and What Followed,
#*: "If you did that, I'd '''kick'''," answered Freddie, and began to '''kick''' real hard into the air.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To direct to a particular place by a blow with the foot or leg.
#: '''''Kick''' the ball into the goal.''
#* '''1905''', [[w:Fielding H. Yost|Fielding H. Yost]], ''[[s:Football for Player and Spectator/Chapter 6|Football for Player and Spectator]]'', Chapter 7,
#*: Sometimes he can '''kick''' the ball forward along the ground until it is '''kicked''' in goal, where he can fall on it for a touchdown.
# {{lb|en|with "off" or "out"}} To [[eject]] [[summarily]].
#* '''1936''' October, [[w:Robert E. Howard|Robert E. Howard]], ''[[s:The Conquerin' Hero of the Humbolts|The Conquerin' Hero of the Humbolts]]'', published in ''[[w:Action Stories|Action Stories]]''
#*: "He's been mad at me ever since I fired him off'n my payroll. After I '''kicked''' him off'n my ranch he run for sheriff, and the night of the election everybody was so drunk they voted for him by mistake, or for a joke, or somethin', and since he's been in office he's been lettin' the sheepmen steal me right out of house and home."
#* '''1976''' February 3, [[w:Bill Gates|Bill Gates]], ''[[s:Open Letter to Hobbyists|An Open Letter to Hobbyists]]'',
#*: They are the ones who give hobbyists a bad name, and should be '''kicked''' out of any club meeting they show up at.
# {{lb|en|Internet}} To forcibly remove a participant from an online activity.
#: ''He was '''kicked''' by ChanServ for flooding.''
# {{lb|en|slang}} To [[overcome]] (a [[bothersome]] or [[difficult]] [[issue]] or [[obstacle]]); to free oneself of (a problem).
#: ''I still smoke, but they keep telling me to '''kick''' the habit.''
# To move or push suddenly and violently.
#: ''He was '''kicked''' sideways by the force of the blast.''
#* '''2011''', Tom Andry, ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=tCizu9cNE3cC&pg=PT3&dq=%22the+car+kicked%22&hl=en&ei=R8XjTdWvIYeovQP73ZmZBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCTgK#v=onepage&q=%22the%20car%20kicked%22&f=false Bob Moore: No Hero]'',
#*: The back of the car '''kicked''' out violently, forcing me to steer into the slide and accelerate in order to maintain control.
# {{lb|en|of a firearm}} To [[recoil]]; to push by recoiling.
#* '''2003''', Jennifer C. D. Groomes, ''The Falcon Project'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=mZSicvNveP4C&pg=PA174&dq=%22it+kicked%22&hl=en&ei=lKjjTen9CYaEvAOn_riPBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFEQ6AEwCTgK#v=onepage&q=%22it%20kicked%22&f=false page 174],
#*: Lying on the ground, when fired, it '''kicked''' me back a foot. There was no way a person my size was going to be able to do an effective job with this gun.
#* '''2006''', Daniel D. Scherschel, ''Maple Grove'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=5UIc1FckWyAC&pg=PA81&dq=%22it+kicked%22&hl=en&ei=9KXjTd-yB4mGvAPpyumcBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22it%20kicked%22&f=false page 81],
#*: I asked my sister Jeanette if she wanted to shoot the 12 ga. shotgun. She replied, "does it '''kick'''"?
# {{lb|en|chess|transitive}} To [[attack]] (a piece) in order to force it to move.
# {{lb|en|cycling|intransitive}} To [[accelerate]] quickly with a few [[pedal]] [[stroke]]s in an effort to break away from other riders.
#: ''Contador '''kicks''' again to try to rid himself of Rasmussen.''

=====Descendants=====
* German: {{l|de|kicken}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|strike with or raise the foot or leg}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|skop}}
* Ainu: {{t|ain|オテッテㇾケ|tr=otetterke}}, {{t|ain|オテㇾケ|tr=oterke}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|رَفَسَ}}, {{t|ar|رَكَلَ}}
* Armenian: {{t-needed|hy}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ကန်}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|[[donar]] [[un]] [[cop]] [[de]] [[peu]]}}, {{t|ca|[[donar]] [[una]] [[puntada]] ([[de]] [[peu]])}}, {{t+|ca|xutar}} {{q|sports}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|踢|tr=tek3|sc=Hani}}
*: Hakka: {{t|hak|踢|tr=thet|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|踢|tr=tī|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|蹴|tr=cù|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|踢|tr=that|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kopnout}}
* Danish: {{t|da|sparke}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schoppen}}, {{t+|nl|stampen}} {{qualifier|Belgium}}, {{t+|nl|trappen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|piedbati}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|potkaista}} {{qualifier|once}}, {{t+|fi|potkia}} {{qualifier|continuously}}
* French: {{t|fr|[[donner]] un [[coup de pied]] à}}, {{t+|fr|botter}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|treten}}, {{t+|de|kicken}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κλοτσώ}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|λακτίζω}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בעט|tr=ba'át}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|sparka}}, {{t|is|sparka í}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tendang}}, {{t+|id|menendang}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|calciare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|蹴る|tr=ける, keru}}, {{t|ja|キックする|tr=kikku suru|sc=Jpan}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|тебу|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|شه‌ق لێدان|tr=shaq ledAn|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ເຕະ}}
* Latin: {{t|la|calcitrō}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|spert}}, {{t|lv|spārdīt}}, {{t|lv|spārdīties}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|spirti}}, {{t|lt|spardyti}}, {{t|lt|spardytis}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|sepak}}, {{t|ms|tendang}}
* Mongolian: {{t-needed|mn}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|co-d'piêter}}, {{t|nrf|codpîser}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sparke}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|spurnan}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|لگد زدن|tr=lagad zadan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kopać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|kopnąć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chutar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|hayt'ay}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|lovi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пина́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|ляга́ться|impf}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|calchidare}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|breab}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|brcniti}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|raha}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|[[dar]] una [[patada]]}}, {{t|es|[[dar]] un [[puntapié]]}}, {{t+|es|patear}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sparka}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|sipain}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తన్ను}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เตะ}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|kik}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tekmelemek}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đá}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|cicio}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|direct to a particular place by a blow with the foot or leg}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|xutar}} {{q|sports}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|踢|tr=thek3|sc=Hani}}
*: Hakka: {{t|hak|踢|tr=thet|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|踢|tr=tī|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|蹴|tr=cù|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t+|nan|踢|tr=that|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kopnout}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|potkaista}}
* French: [[faire]] + ''verb phrase'' + en lui donnant un [[coup de pied]]
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჭიტლაყი}}, {{t|ka|პანღური}}
* German: {{t+|de|schießen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|sparka}}, {{t|is|sparka í}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|menendang}}, {{t+|id|menyepak}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|蹴る|tr=ける, keru}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|тебу|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|sparke}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kopać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|kopnąć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chutar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пина́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|пнуть|pf}}; {{t+|ru|ляга́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|лягну́ть|pf}} (a horse especially)
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|breab}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sparka}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|kik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to remove a participant from an online activity}}
* French: {{t+|fr|kicker}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|העיף|m|tr=he'if|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|sparka út}}, {{t|is|sparka út af}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|kickar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[hit]] or [[strike]] with the [[leg]], [[foot]] or [[knee]].
#: ''A '''kick''' to the knee.''
#* '''1890''', [[w:Jacob Riis|Jacob Riis]], ''[[s:How the Other Half Lives/Chapter VII|How the Other Half Lives]]'', Chapter VII: A Raid on the Stable-Beer Dives,
#*: A '''kick''' of his boot-heel sent the door flying into the room.
#* '''2011''', Phil McNulty, ''Euro 2012: Montenegro 2-2 England'' [http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15195384.stm]
#*: Elsad Zverotic gave Montenegro hope with a goal with the last '''kick''' of the first half - and when Rooney was deservedly shown red by referee Wolfgang Stark, England were placed under pressure they could not survive.
# The action of [[swing]]ing a [[foot]] or [[leg]].
#: ''The ballerina did a high '''kick''' and a leap.''
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} Something that [[tickle]]s the [[fancy]]; something [[fun]] or [[amusing]].
#: ''I finally saw the show. What a '''kick'''!''
#: ''I think I sprained something on my latest exercise '''kick'''.''
# {{lb|en|Internet}} The removal of a person from an online activity.
# A [[button]] (of a [[joypad]], [[joystick]] or similar [[device]]) whose only or main current function is that when it is [[presse]]d causes a [[video game]] character to kick.
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} Any bucking motion of an object that lacks legs or feet.
#: ''The car had a nasty '''kick''' the whole way.''
#: ''The pool ball took a wild '''kick''', up off the table.''
# {{lb|en|uncountable|and|countable}} [[piquancy|Piquancy]].
#* '''2002''', Ellen and Michael Albertson, ''Temptations'', [[w:Fireside Books|Fireside]], {{ISBN|0743229800}}, page 124&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=cITFVpz2ri8C&pg=PA124&dq=kick]:
#*: Add a little cascabel pepper to ordinary tomato sauce to give it a '''kick'''.
#* '''2003''', Sheree Bykofsky and Megan Buckley, ''Sexy City Cocktails'', [[w:Adams Media|Adams Media]], {{ISBN|1580629172}}, page 129&nbsp;[http://books.google.com/books?id=GBO9qF3uXYUC&pg=PA129&dq=kick]:
#*: For extra '''kick''', hollow out a lime, float it on top of the drink, and fill it with tequila.
#* '''2007''' August 27, [[w:Anthony Lane|Anthony Lane]], "Lone Sailors", [[w:The New Yorker|''The New Yorker'']], volume 83, Issues 22-28
#*: The first time I saw "Deep Water," the trace of mystery in the Crowhurst affair gave the movie a '''kick''' of excitement.
# A [[stimulation]] provided by an intoxicating substance.
# {{lb|en|soccer}} A [[pass]] played by kicking with the foot.
# {{lb|en|soccer}} The distance traveled by kicking the ball.
#: ''a long '''kick''' up the field.''
# A [[recoil]] of a gun.
# {{lb|en|informal}} [[pocket|Pocket]].
# An increase in speed in the final part of a running race.

=====Quotations=====
* {{seeCites}}

=====Descendants=====
* German: {{l|de|Kick}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|hit or strike with the leg or foot}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|رَكْلَة}}
* Assamese: {{t|as|গুৰিওৱা}}, {{t|as|লথিওৱা}}, {{t|as|লাথ মাৰা}}, {{t|as|গুৰি মাৰা}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|[[puntada]] ([[de]] [[peu]])|f}}, {{t+|ca|guitza|f}} {{q|of an animal}}, {{t+|ca|coça|f}} {{q|of an animal}}, {{t+|ca|xut|m}} {{q|sports}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kop|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|spark|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|schop|m}}, {{t+|nl|trap|m}}, {{t+|nl|stamp|m}} {{qualifier|Belgium}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|spark|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|potku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup de pied|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჭიტლაყი}}, {{t|ka|პანღური}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|λάκτισμα|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|בעיטה|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|spark|n}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|tendangan}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|calcio|m}}, {{t|it|piedata|f}}, {{t|it|colpo di piede|m}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t+|ku|شه‌ق|tr=shaq|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|له‌قه|tr=laqa|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|spēriens|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|spyris|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|sepakan}}, {{t|ms|tendangan}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|nɗaru|c9|c10|tr=ndaru}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|spark|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|spark|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|لگد|tr=lagad|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kopnięcie|n}}, {{t+|pl|wykop|m}}, {{t+|pl|kop|m}} {{qualifier|colloquial}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chute}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|hayt'a}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пино́к|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|breab|c}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|brca|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|patada|f}}, {{t+|es|puntapié|m}}, {{t+|es|coz|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spark|n}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తాపు}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|لات}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|action of swinging a foot or leg}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|potku}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|spark}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|spark}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colloquial: something fun or amusing}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kick|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kick}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun or verb ''kick''}}
* {{l|en|axe kick}}
* {{l|en|banana kick}}
* {{l|en|bicycle kick}}
* {{l|en|butterfly kick}}
* {{l|en|crescent kick}}
* {{l|en|drop kick}}, {{l|en|dropkick}}
* {{l|en|flying kick}}
* {{l|en|for kicks}}
* {{l|en|free kick}}
* {{l|en|get a kick out of}}
* {{l|en|hook kick}}
* {{l|en|kick about}}
* {{l|en|kick against the pricks}}
* {{l|en|kick around}}
* {{l|en|kick arse}}
* {{l|en|kick ass}}, {{l|en|kickass}}
* {{l|en|kick at the can}}
* {{l|en|kick at the cat}}
{{rel-mid3}}
* {{l|en|kick back}}, {{l|en|kickback}}
* {{l|en|kickban}} {{qualifier|Internet}}
* {{l|en|kickboxing}}
* {{l|en|kick butt}}
* {{l|en|kicker}}
* {{l|en|kickflip}}
* {{l|en|kick in}}
* {{l|en|kick in the pants}}
* {{l|en|kick in the teeth}}
* {{l|en|kick it}}
* {{l|en|kick like a mule}}
* {{l|en|kick off}} {{pos v}}
* {{l|en|kick-off}} {{pos n}}
* {{l|en|kick one's heels}}
* {{l|en|kick out}}
* {{l|en|kick over}}
* {{l|en|kick over the traces}}
* {{l|en|kick someone when they are down}}
{{rel-mid3}}
* {{l|en|kickstand}}
* {{l|en|kick start}}
* {{l|en|kick the bucket}}
* {{l|en|kick the can}}, {{l|en|kick-the-can}}
* {{l|en|kick the can down the road}}
* {{l|en|kick the habit}}
* {{l|en|kick to the curb}}
* {{l|en|kick up}}
* {{l|en|kick up one's heels}}
* {{l|en|kick upstairs}}
* {{l|en|kick up the arse}}/[[kick up the ass]]/[[kick up the backside]]/[[kick up the butt]]
* {{l|en|kick wheel}}
* {{l|en|on a kick}}
* {{l|en|overhead kick}}
* {{l|en|roundhouse kick}}
* {{l|en|scissor kick}}, {{l|en|scissors kick}}
* {{l|en|showtime kick}}
* {{l|en|wheel kick}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Shortening of {{m|en|kick the bucket}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[die]].
#* {{quote-book|lang=en|title=What every American should know about who's really running the world|page=211|author=Melissa L. Rossi|year=2005|passage=Who knows what will happen to his billions when the eighty-five-year-old '''kicks'''|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=QzrNFbuFzc8C&pg=PA211&dq=%22old+kicks%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mtWVT5GwB4T46QG0yNWzBA&ved=0CEkQ6AEwADg8#v=onepage&q=%22old%20kicks%22&f=false}}

[[Category:en:Buttons]]
[[Category:en:Violence]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/kɪk/}}
* {{audio|Nl-kick.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{rhyme|lang=nl|ɪk}}

===Etymology 1===
Borrowing from {{bor|nl|en|kick}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-s|-}}

# {{l|en|kick}}, {{l|en|thrill}} {{gloss|something that excites or gives pleasure}}

===Etymology 2===
{{nonlemma}}

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|kicken}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|kicken}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[kɪk]|lang=de}}
* {{rhymes|ɪk|lang=de}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|kicken|i|s}}
# {{lb|de|colloquial}} {{de-verb form of|kicken|1|s|g}}