{{also|kyttä|kýta}}
==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# [[maw]]

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-kala|ki|t|d}}

====Related terms====
* [[kitalaki]]

===Anagrams===
* [[akti#Finnish|akti]], [[kait#Finnish|kait]], [[Kati#Finnish|Kati]]

----

==Hiligaynon==

===Pronoun===
{{head|hil|pronoun|head=kitá}}

# [[we]]; including the person or persons spoken to

===Verb===
{{hil-verb|kítà}}

# [[see]], [[behold]]

----

==Ilocano==

===Verb===
{{head|ilo|noun|used in the form|makita}}

# To [[see]].

----

==Indonesian==

===Pronoun===
{{head|id|pronoun}}

# [[we]] (inclusive); I and those ones I am addressing to.
# [[us]]  (inclusive); me and those ones I am addressing to.
Eg:. ''"Kita akan pergi ke toko"'': "We will go to the store".

# [[our]]  (inclusive); my and of those ones I am addressing to.
''"Pertanian ini milik kita"'': "This farm is Ours".

# [[ours]] (if used with [[milik]], [[punya|kepunyaan]], etc.)
''"Kita mempunyai komputer labotarorium baru di sekolah kita"'': "We have a new computer laboratory at our school".

related:
* [[kami]]= We (exclusive)

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=きた}}

# {{ja-def|北}} [[north]]

====See also====
* {{l|ja|東|tr=[[ひがし]], [[higashi]]|sc=Jpan}}: [[east]]
* {{l|ja|西|tr=[[にし]], [[nishi]]|sc=Jpan}}: [[west]]
* {{l|ja|南|tr=[[みなみ]], [[minami]]|sc=Jpan}}: [[south]]

===Verb===
{{ja-verb form|r|hira=きた}}

# {{ja-def|来た}} past of [[来る]], [[come]]; [[came]].
# {{ja-def|着た}} past of [[着る]], [[wear]]; [[wore]].

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|kyta|lang=sh}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kîta/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|ki|ta}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=f|head=kȉta|r|кита|ки̏та}}

# [[bunch]], [[bouquet]]
# {{slang|lang=sh}} [[penis]], [[dick]]
# {{slang|lang=sh}} handsome [[girl]], [[chick]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|kȉta|kite
|kite|kȋtā
|kiti|kitama
|kitu|kite
|kito|kite
|kiti|kitama
|kitom|kitama
}}

----

==Swahili==

===Verb===
{{head|sw|verb}}

# To [[stand]] firm.

----

==Tagalog==

===Pronunciation===
; Noun and verb
* {{IPA|/ˈkiːtaʔ/|lang=tl}}
* {{audio|tl-ph-kita-noun.ogg|noun and verb}}

; Pronoun
* {{IPA|/kiˈta/|lang=tl}}
* {{audio|tl-ph-kita-pronoun.ogg|pronoun}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|tl|pronoun}}

# Second-person form, used when speaking directly to the receiver of a verb, combining the first- and second-person. Replacement for '''ko ikaw''' ('''I''' or '''my''' ''and'' '''you''').
#: ''Mahal ko siya, mahal ko sila, mahal ko tayong lahat—at ikaw, mahal '''kita'''.''
#:: I love him, I love them, I love all of us—and you, '''I''' love '''you'''.

===Noun===
{{tl-noun}}

# [[income|Income]].
#: ''Pabagu-bago ang '''kita'''''
#:: Ever-changing '''income'''

===Verb===
{{head|tl|verb|root used in the form|makita}}

# To [[see]].
#: '''''Nakikita''' ko... '''nakikita''' ko ang iyong kapalaran sa palad mo!''
#:: I '''can see'''... I '''can see''' your fortune in the palm of your hand!

===Derived terms===
* [[pagkikita]]

[[de:kita]]
[[el:kita]]
[[fr:kita]]
[[ko:kita]]
[[hr:kita]]
[[io:kita]]
[[id:kita]]
[[it:kita]]
[[lt:kita]]
[[mg:kita]]
[[ms:kita]]
[[nl:kita]]
[[ja:kita]]
[[pl:kita]]
[[pt:kita]]
[[ro:kita]]
[[ru:kita]]
[[sl:kita]]
[[fi:kita]]
[[zh:kita]]