==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{An electroreceptor organ found in the skin of weakly [[electric fish]] of the family Mormyridae from Africa.  The name was first used by Franz (1920) to refer to the tuberous sensory organs in the thickened epidermis of mormyrid fish.  From the German, Knolle for tuber or root.  Tuberous electroreceptors characteristically have sensory receptor cells buried in the deeper layers of the epidermis where they expand into a pocket in the superficial layers of corium.  The sensory cells are surrounded by a basement membrane which separates corium from epidermis.  Epithelial cells form a loose plug over the sense sensory receptor cells which are capacitatively coupled to the exterior water. There is no open canal leading to the skin surface. Knollenorgans are sensitive 20 to 20,000 Hz electric stimuli with electric fields as small as 0.1 mV/cm.  The sense organs are used to detect the weak electric organ discharges (EODs) of other electric fish,  usually of their own species.  The anatomy of Knollenorgans is described by Franz (1920), by Bennett (1965, 1971) and Szabo (1965, 1974).}}

===References===
*Add verifiable references here to show where you found the word in use.
Bennett, M. V. L. (1965) Electroreceptors in Mormyrids.  Cold Spring Harbor Symposium Quantitative Biology. 30:245-262.
Bennett, M. V. L. (1971) Electroreceptors. In: Fish Physiology, W. S. Hoar and D. J. Randall, Eds., pp. 493-574. Academic Press, New York.
Franz, V. (1920) Zur mikroscopischen Anatomie der Mormyriden.  Zool. Jb. Anat. Abt. 43, 91-148.
Szabo, T. (1965) Sense organs of the lateral line system of some electric fish of the Gymnotidae, Gymnarchidae, and Mormyridae. J. Morph. 117:229-250.