==English==

Ekekdkdaajushsuwsiwiwoqoqoqowjssxjsjddgdd

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# In a piece of [[lumber]], a [[void]] left by a knot in the [[wood]]; such holes are often convenient for [[peering]] through when they occur in fences.
#* '''1893''', Ambrose Bierce, ''Can Such Things Be'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=94501230&tag=Bierce,+Ambrose:+Can+Such+Things+Be,+1893&query=+knothole&id=BieCans]
#*: Looking in the same direction, I saw that the '''knothole''' in the wall had indeed become a human eye -- a full, black eye, that glared into my own with an entire lack of expression more awful than the most devilish glitter.
#* '''1915''', Zane Grey, ''The Redheaded Outfield'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=329695594&textreg=1&query=knothole&id=GreRedh]
#*: Red Gilbat was nutty....When the gong rang at the ball grounds there were ten chances to one that Red would not be present. He had been discovered with small boys peeping through '''knotholes''' at the vacant left field he was supposed to inhabit during play.
# {{lb|en|US|sports}} Youth league [[baseball]].
#* '''1976''', [[w:Pete Rose|Pete Rose]] [//books.google.com/books?id=VMhtAAAAMAAJ]
#*: But he was worried that a coach of a '''knothole''' team might not like the idea and not let me switch-hit. So, my dad went to the coach.
#* '''1993''', [[w:Rob Portman|Rob Portman]] [//books.google.com/books?id=EB8DAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA32]
#*: I was a Cub Scout. I went to church with my family, and taught Sunday school when I was in my teens. I played '''knothole''' baseball and rooted for the [[w:Cincinnati Reds|Reds]].
#* '''1998''', Lonnie Wheeler, ''[[w:Cincinnati Magazine|Cincinnati Magazine]]'' [//books.google.com/books?id=hOsCAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA151]
#*: Poetically enough, the [[w:New Richmond, Ohio|New Richmond]] '''knothole''' field is situated right next to the low, open land between the old and new highway.

====Related terms====
* {{sense|baseball}} {{l|en|peewee}}

[[Category:Ohioan English]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|void left by a knot in the wood}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|oksanreikä}}
* German: {{t+|de|Astloch|n}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|poll cranra|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|kvisthål|n}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|twll cainc|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English terms with consonant pseudo-digraphs]]