{{also|-kun|kūn|kǔn|kùn|kůň}}
==Danish==

===Adverb===
{{head|da|adverb}}

# {{l|en|only|Only}}.

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kʏn/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-kun.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Verb===
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=2|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|kunnen}}
#: {{usex|Kun jij iets doen voor mij?|t=Can you do something for me?|lang=nl}}

====Usage notes====
As is usual in Dutch, the ''-t'' is dropped when the pronoun {{term|jij|lang=nl}} / {{term|je|lang=nl}} immediately follows the verb. However, unlike for all other verbs, the form that results is not identical to the first-person singular, which is {{term|kan|lang=nl}}. The form {{term|kan|lang=nl}} is also frequently used, by analogy with regular verbs, but it may be considered nonstandard by some.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nl|kan}}

----

==Esperanto==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|eo}} {{term|cum|lang=eo}}; Italian, Spanish [[con]]

===Preposition===
{{head|eo|preposition}}

# in the company of, [[with]]
# in addition to
# characteristic considered separately from the whole
#* L. L. Zamenhof:
#*: ''Vorto dirita en ĝusta tempo estas kiel oraj pomoj '''kun''' arĝentaj ŝeloj.''
#*:: A word said at the right time is like golden apples '''with''' silver skins.
# {{context|used as prefix|lang=eo}} [[together]]

====Derived terms====
* [[kunigi]]
* [[kuniĝi]]
* [[kunligi]]

{{eo BRO|1}}

[[Category:Esperanto prepositions]]

----

==Finnish==
{{Finnish index|k|u}}

===Etymology===
Originally the lative singular of {{term|kuka||who}}.

===Conjunction===
{{fi-con}}

# [[when]], [[as]] {{gloss|temporal: at the same time or instant that}}
#: ''Sain viestisi, '''kun''' olin jo matkalla lentokentälle.''
#:: I got your message '''when''' I was already on my way to the airport.
#: ''Hän ilmestyi antamaan ohjeita, '''kun''' olin jo saanut työn valmiiksi.''
#:: He showed up to give instructions '''when''' I had already finished the job.
# ''often with the clitic'' {{term|-han}} ''to express that the event of the main clause takes place immediately after that of the subclause'': [[as soon as]] 
#: ''Tulen tapaamaan sinua, '''kun'''(han) saan tämän valmiiksi.''
#:: I will come to see you '''as soon as''' I finish this job.
# {{context|uncommon|lang=fi}} [[as]] {{gloss|considering that, because}}
#: ''En voi tulla huomenna, minulla '''kun''' on aamuvuoro.''
#:: I cannot come tomorrow '''as''' I have the morning shift.
# {{context|obsolete|dialectal|lang=fi}} [[that]], [[who]], [[which]], [[where]] {{gloss|used as relative pronoun}}
#: ''Täällä on eräs mies, '''kun''' haluaisi tavata johtajaa.''
#: ''Täällä on eräs mies, [[joka]] haluaisi tavata johtajaa.'' {{qualifier|standard}}
#:: Here is a man '''who''' would want to see the director.
# ''short for'' [[kunpa]]

====Derived terms====
* [[ei kun]]
* [[kunpa]]
* [[silloin kun]]
* [[sitten kun]]
* [[voi kun]]

====Related terms====
* [[kuin]]
* [[kunnes]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{hu-IPA}}
* {{hyphenation|kun|lang=hu}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ok}}

# [[Cuman]] {{gloss|member of a nomadic Turkic people of central Asia}}

====Declension====
{{hu-infl-nom|kuno|o|-}}{{hu-pos-otok|kun|j|jai}}

----

==Ido==

===Preposition===
{{head|io|preposition}}

# [[with]]
#: {{usex|Ilu iris '''kun''' elu a la parko.|t=He went '''with''' her to the park.|lang=io}}

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|くん}}

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|kunra}}

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
{{head|cmn|pinyin}}

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|kūn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|kǔn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|kùn}}

====Usage notes====
* {{cmn-toneless-note}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Adverb===
{{head|nb|adverb}}

# [[only]]

----

==Novial==

===Preposition===
{{head|nov|preposition}}

# [[with]] {{gloss|in the company of}}

----

==Uzbek==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|trk-pro|uz}} {{m|trk-pro|*gün}}

===Noun===
{{uz-noun}}

# [[day]]
# [[sun]]

----

==Volapük==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[kun]|lang=vo}}

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[cow]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

====Synonyms====
* [[jibub]]

====Antonyms====
* [[hibub]]
* [[tor]]

====Related terms====
* [[bub]]
* [[veter]]

[[Category:vo:Animals]]

----

==Wik-Mungkan==

===Noun===
{{head|wim|noun}}

# [[excrement]], [[faeces]], [[shit]]

====Synonyms====
* [[kaka]]

[[af:kun]]
[[ar:kun]]
[[zh-min-nan:kun]]
[[be:kun]]
[[br:kun]]
[[cs:kun]]
[[da:kun]]
[[de:kun]]
[[et:kun]]
[[el:kun]]
[[es:kun]]
[[eo:kun]]
[[eu:kun]]
[[fr:kun]]
[[ko:kun]]
[[io:kun]]
[[it:kun]]
[[ku:kun]]
[[hu:kun]]
[[mg:kun]]
[[fj:kun]]
[[nl:kun]]
[[ja:kun]]
[[no:kun]]
[[uz:kun]]
[[pl:kun]]
[[pt:kun]]
[[ru:kun]]
[[sm:kun]]
[[fi:kun]]
[[sv:kun]]
[[chr:kun]]
[[tr:kun]]
[[vi:kun]]
[[vo:kun]]
[[zh:kun]]