{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|fabula|lang=la}}, from {{term|fari||to speak, say|lang=la}}. See {{term|Ban}}, and compare {{term|fabulous}}, {{term|fame}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-fable.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪbəl}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[fictitious]] [[narration]] intended to [[enforce]] some useful [[truth]] or [[precept]], usually with [[animals]], [[birds]] etc as [[characters]]; an [[apologue]]. Prototypically, [[w:Aesop's Fables|Aesop's Fables]].
# Any story told to excite wonder; common talk; the [[theme]] of talk.
#* [[w:First Epistle to Timothy|1 Timothy]] 4:7,
#*: Old wives' '''fables'''.
#* [[w:Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]],
#*: We grew The '''fable''' of the city where we dwelt.
# [[Fiction]]; [[untruth]]; falsehood.
#* [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]],
#*: It would look like a '''fable''' to report that this gentleman gives away a great fortune by secret methods.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|fiction to enforce a useful precept}} [[morality play]]
* {{sense|story to excite wonder}}
* {{sense|falsehood}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|story or tale intended to instruct, to amuse, to enforce some useful truth or precept}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أسطورة|f|tr='usTuura|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|առակ|tr=aṙak|xs=Armenian}}
* Cherepon: [[anansesem]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|寓言|tr=yùyán|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|bajka|f|alt=bȃjka}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bajka|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fabel}}
* Esperanto: [[fabelo]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|satu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|conte|m}},  {{t+|fr|fable|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fabel|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mese}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[dæmisaga]] {{f}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t|io|fablo|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|fiaba|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|寓言|tr=ぐうげん, gūgen|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|басна|f|tr=básna|xs=Macedonian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bajka}}
* Romanian: [[poveste]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|басня|f|tr=básnja|sc=Cyrl}},  {{t|ru|притча|f|tr=prítča|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: [[basna]], [[skazna]]
* Slovak: [[rozprávka]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|fábula|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|saga}}, {{t+|sv|berättelse}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|fabl}},  {{t|tr|öykünce}}
* [[Twi]]: [[anansesem]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[ספור]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|fabl|ing}}

# {{intransitive|archaic}} To [[compose]] [[fables]]; hence, to write or speak [[fiction]] ; to write or [[utter]] what is not true.
#* Shakespeare, ''1 Henry VI'', IV-ii:
#*: He '''Fables''' not.
#* [[w:Matthew Prior|Matthew Prior]]:
#*: Vain now the tales which '''fabling''' poets tell.
#* [[w:Matthew Arnold|Matthew Arnold]]:
#*: He '''fables''', yet speaks truth.
# {{transitive|archaic}} To [[feign]]; to [[invent]]; to [[devise]], and speak of, as true or real; to tell of [[falsely]].
#* [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#:* The hell thou '''fablest'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|compose fables}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|fable}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sepittää}} ([[satu#Finnish|satuja]])
* German: {{t+|de|fabulieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|mesél}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|фабулира|tr=fabulíra|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tell of falsely}}
* Danish: [[fabulere]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puhua}} [[oma#Finnish|omiaan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|költ}}, {{t|hu|kohol}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|измислува|tr=izmísluva|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
{{webster}}

[[de:fable]]
[[et:fable]]
[[el:fable]]
[[fr:fable]]
[[ko:fable]]
[[io:fable]]
[[id:fable]]
[[kn:fable]]
[[ku:fable]]
[[lt:fable]]
[[hu:fable]]
[[ml:fable]]
[[my:fable]]
[[nl:fable]]
[[ja:fable]]
[[pl:fable]]
[[ro:fable]]
[[ru:fable]]
[[fi:fable]]
[[ta:fable]]
[[te:fable]]
[[th:fable]]
[[tr:fable]]
[[vi:fable]]
[[zh:fable]]