==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æɡ|-æɡ]]

===Noun===
'''fag'''  (''plural:'' '''[[fags]]''')
# (''UK, Aus/UK slang'') A cigarette.
# (''UK slang'') A chore; an arduous and timesome task.
# (''US, Aus/UK slang'', derogatory) A male homosexual.
#:Note: Sometimes used jocularly between homosexuals.
# (''US slang'', offensive) A [[jerk]], an [[asshole]].
#: ''Why did you do that, you fag?''
# (''UK (archaic)'') term used in UK public schools for a younger student acting as a servant for senior students.
# (''US technical'') In textile inspections, a rough or coarse defect in the woven fabric.
#(US Technical) a pv cell that is no longer in use.

====Synonyms====
*[[ciggy]] (1, Aus)
*[[faggot]] (3)
*[[smoke]] (1)

====Translations====
;cigarette
{{top}}
*French: [[clope]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[cigaretta]]
*Greek: [[σιγαρέττο]] (sigarétto) {{n))
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[cicca]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[парироса]] {{f}}, [[сигарета]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;homosexual
{{top}}
*French: [[enculeur]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[buzi]]
*Greek: [[πούστης]] (pústis) {{m}}, [[αδερφή]] (aderfí) {{f))
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[finocchio]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[голубой]] {{m}}, [[пидор]] (''vulg.'') {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to fag''' ([[fagged]], fagged)
# (''slang'': ''used mainly in passive form'') To make exhausted, tired out.
# (''UK (archaic)'') for a younger student to act as a servant for senior students in UK public schools

[[Category:English words with different meanings in different locations]]


----

==Danish==

===Noun===
'''fag'''

# [[compartment]]

----

==Polish==

===Noun===
'''fag''' {{m}}

# [[phage]]

[[Category:Danish nouns]]

[[fr:fag]]
[[io:fag]]
[[pl:fag]]
[[pt:fag]]
[[ro:fag]]
[[ru:fag]]
[[fi:fag]]
[[vi:fag]]
[[zh:fag]]