==English==

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|en|faggot|ry}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈfæɡətɹi/}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-faggotry.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|offensive|pejorative|slang}} The stereotypical behaviours of a [[faggot]] {{gloss|male homosexual}} or [[homosexuality]] in general.
#* {{quote-journal|en|journal={{w|Neurotica (magazine)|Neurotica}}|author={{w|Gershon Legman|G[ershon] Legman}}|passage=The exploitation of brutality and terror is blatantly apparent. The homosexual element lies somewhat deeper. It is not —  at least, not importantly — in the obvious '''faggotry''' of men kissing one another and saying 'I love you,' {{...}}|number=3|page=18|year=1948|month=November|title=The Psychopathology of the Comics}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|passage=Never­theless we have also observed that rebellion ignored soon falls flat, and most of these "social rebels" see the folly of their '''faggotry''' in time.|month=December|year=1962|journal={{w|Mattachine Review}}|publisher=Mattachine Society|volume=VIII|number=11 [misprint for 12]|page=35|column=1|pageurl=https://digitalassets.lib.berkeley.edu/sfbagals/Mattachine_Review/1962_Mattachine_Vol08_No12_Dec.pdf#page=21|title=Can We Change Our Swishy Brothers?|author=Richard Mayer|location=Los Angeles|issn=0465-3874}}
# {{lb|en|offensive|slang}} Contemptible actions in general.
#* '''2018''', Samuel Eddy, ''Prima Materia''
#*: "I was part of a music forum. We used to make techno-collabs with heavy sampling." He admitted. {{...}} "The samples were all from anime and old FDR speeches..." {{...}} Gerry stopped, and grabbed a nearby tree for support, cackling like a madman. "I can't stop! I can't...Phil help...I'm trapped in the vortex of your '''faggotry'''."

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|gayness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|stereotypical behaviours of a faggot}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|götvərənlik}}
* German: {{t|de|Geschwuchtel|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pedalstwo|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пидорство|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|mariconería|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bögeri|n}}
* Serbo-Croatian: 
** Cyrillic: {{t|sh|пе́дерство|n}}, {{t|sh|педерлук|m}}
** Roman: {{t+|sh|pederstvo|n}} {{t|sh|pederluk|m}} 
{{trans-bottom}}