==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|head=[[to]] [[fall]] [[off]]|falls off|falling off|fell off|fallen off}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|and|intransitive}} To become [[detached]] or to [[drop]] from.
#: ''A button '''fell off''' my coat.''
#* '''1900''', L. Frank Baum , ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' Chapter 23
#*: Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet. For the Silver Shoes had '''fallen off''' in her flight through the air, and were lost forever in the desert.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[diminish]] in [[size]], [[value]] etc.
#: ''Business always '''falls off''' in the winter.''
#: ''MC ___'s new album is wack - he's '''fallen off''' big-time.''
# {{lb|en|nautical}} To change the direction of the sail so as to point in a direction that is more down wind; to bring the bow leeward.
#* '''1846''', Melville, ''Typee'', [[s:Typee/Chapter 1|chapter 1]]
#*: 'Why d'ye see, Captain Vangs,' says bold Jack, 'I'm as good a helmsman as ever put hand to spoke; but none of us can steer the old lady now. We can't keep her full and bye, sir; watch her ever so close, she will '''fall off''' and then, sir, when I put the helm down so gently, and try like to coax her to the work, she won't take it kindly, but will '''fall''' round '''off''' again; and it's all because she knows the land is under the lee, sir, and she won't go any more to windward.'
#* '''1854''', [[w:Benjamin Robbins Curtis|Benjamin Robbins Curtis]], ''Lawrence v. Minturn'', [[s:Lawrence v. Minturn/Opinion of the Court|Opinion of the Court]]
#*: She would not mind her helm, but would '''fall off'''; she would settle down aft and take in water over her stern, and plunged heavily forward.
#* '''1898''', Kipling, ''[[s:The Burning of the Sarah Sands|The Burning of the Sarah Sands]]''
#*: There was the constant danger of the ship, now- broadside on to the heavy seas, '''falling off''' before the heavy wind, and leading the flames forward again.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from ''fall off''}}
* {{l|en|falling off}}, {{l|en|falling-off}}<!--noun-->
* {{l|en|fall-off}}, {{l|en|falloff}}<!--noun-->
* {{l|en|fall off the back of a lorry}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|fall off the turnip truck}}
* {{l|en|fall off the wagon}}
* {{l|en|the wheels fell off}}<!--figurative sense is idiomatic-->
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (off)]]

[[et:fall off]]
[[kn:fall off]]
[[ku:fall off]]
[[mg:fall off]]
[[ml:fall off]]
[[ja:fall off]]
[[pl:fall off]]
[[chr:fall off]]