{{also|fällen|Fällen}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}: {{IPA|/ˈfɔːlən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"fO:l@n/}}
* {{audio|en-us-fallen.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
'''fallen'''

# {{past participle of|fall}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# having dropped by the force of gravity
#: '''''fallen''' raindrops''
# {{literary}} killed in battle
#: ''to honor '''fallen''' soldiers''
# having lost one's [[chastity]]
#: ''a '''fallen''' woman''
# having collapsed
#: ''a '''fallen''' building''

====Synonyms====
* {{qualifier|having collapsed}}: [[collapsed]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the adjective ''fallen''}}
* [[chap-fallen]], [[chapfallen]]
* [[chop-fallen]], [[chopfallen]]
* [[crest-fallen]]<!--older spelling-->, [[crestfallen]]
* [[down-fallen]], [[downfallen]]
* [[fallen angel]]
* [[fallen arch]]
* [[fallen building clause]]
* [[fallen flag]]
* [[fallen fleece]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[fallen-in]]
* [[fallen instep]]
* [[fallenness]]
* [[fallen-off]]
* [[fallen star]]
* [[fallen woman]]
* [[heaven-fallen]]
* [[how are the mighty fallen]]
* [[infallen]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[jaw-fallen]]
* [[new-fallen]]
* [[root-fallen]]
* [[sick-fallen]]
* [[stitchfallen]]
* [[trade-fallen]]
* [[unfallen]]
* [[wind-fallen]], [[windfallen]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|having dropped by the force of gravity}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|паднал|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pudonnut}}
* German: {{t+|de|gefallen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|fallinn|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|упавший|tr=upávšij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|killed in battle}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|загинал|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaatunut}}
* German: {{t+|de|gefallen}}, {{t-|de|im Kampf gefallen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|elesett}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|fallinn|m}}, {{t-|is|fallinn í valinn|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|павший|tr=pávšij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having lost one's chastity}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|паднал|sc=Cyrl}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|langennut}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|падший|tr=pádšij}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having collapsed}}
* Finnish: [[romahtanut]], [[sortunut]],  {{t-|fi|kaatunut}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|casurus|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|упавший|tr=upávšij}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-|sh|srušen|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|fallen}}

# {{pluralonly}} The [[dead]]
# {{pluralonly}} [[casualties|Casualties]] of battle or war.
# {{countable|Christianity}} One who has fallen, as from grace.
#* {{quote-book|title=Cyclopaedia of Biblical, theological, and ecclesiastical literature|volume=5|author=James Strong|co-authors=John McClintock|year=1873|passage=In the Augustinian period, however, sin was held to be a death-inflicting agent, implying that the '''fallen''' was dead, and had to be restored to life.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|dead}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuollut}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|casualties of battle or war}}
* Dutch: [[gevallenen]] {{p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kaatunut}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English adjectives ending in -en]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|goh|de}} {{term|fallan|lang=goh}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|de}} {{recons|fallanan|lang=gem-pro}}. Akin to Dutch {{term|vallen|lang=nl}}, English {{term|fall|lang=nl}}, Swedish {{term|falla|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈfaln̩/|/ˈfalən/|lang=de}}
* {{audio|De-fallen.ogg|audio (Germany)}}
* {{audio|De-at-fallen.ogg|audio (Austria)}}

===Verb===
{{de-verb-strong|class=7|fällt|fiel|gefallen|auxiliary=sein}}

# {{intransitive|lang=de}} to [[fall]]; to [[drop]]
#: ''Der Regen '''fiel''' wie aus Eimern.'' - It rained cats and dogs. (literally: 'The rain fell like out of buckets.')
#: ''Sie '''fiel''' zu Boden.'' - She fell to the floor.
# {{intransitive|military|lang=de}} to [[die]]; to [[fall]] [[in]] [[battle]]; to [[die]] [[in]] [[battle]]; to [[be]] [[killed]] [[in action]]
#* '''1918''', [[w:de:Elisabeth von Heyking|Elisabeth von Heyking]], ''[[s:de:Die Orgelpfeifen|Die Orgelpfeifen]]'', in: Zwei Erzählungen, Phillipp Reclam jun. Verlag, page 31:
#*: Bei einem Patrouillenritt, zu dem er sich freiwillig gemeldet, '''war''' der älteste der Enkel '''gefallen'''. Ruhte nun fern in Feindesland.
#*:: On a patrolling ride, for which he had volunteered, the oldest of the grandchildren had died. Rested now far away in enemy country.
# {{intransitive}} to [[fall]], to [[collapse]], to be [[overthrown]].
#: ''Das Römische Reich '''fiel''' auf Grund der Völkerwanderung.'' - The Roman Empire was overthrown by the consequences of the Migration period.
# {{intransitive}} to become lower, to [[decrease]], to [[decline]]
#: ''Zur Zeit der Finanzkrise '''fielen''' viele Aktienkurse um zahlreiche Prozentpunkte.'' - In times of the banking scandal many stock prices decreased about a large percentage.
# {{reflexive}} (with ''[[zurück]]'') To be [[allot|alloted]] to; to be able to change one's fate.
#: ''Und somit '''fiel''' die Entscheidung was zu tun ist auf mich '''zurück'''.'' - And so it falls to me to make this important decision.

====Conjugation====
{{de-conj-strong|fall|fiel|gefallen|s||fäll||a|||a}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[anfallen]]
* [[abfallen]]
* [[auffallen]]
* [[ausfallen]]
* [[der Apfel fällt nicht weit vom Stamm]]
* [[einfallen]]
* [[Fall]]
* [[Fallbeil]]
* [[Fallobst]]
* [[Falle]]
* [[fällen]]
* [[fällig]]
{{mid2}}

* [[gefallen]]
* [[Gefallener]]
* [[Gefälle]]
* [[gefällig]]
* [[hinfallen]]
* [[hinfällig]]
* [[überfallen]]
* [[verfallen]]
* [[wegfallen]]
* [[zerfallen]]
* [[Zufall]]
* [[zufallen]]
* [[zusammenfallen]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Spanish==

===Verb===
{{es-verb-form|fallar}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=imperative|pers=2|formal=yes|number=plural|fallar}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=2|formal=yes|number=plural|fallar}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=3|number=plural|fallar}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
{{sv-verb-form-pastpart|falla}}

===Adjective===
{{head|sv|adjective}}

# [[#English|fallen]]
#: ''en '''fallen''' ängel''
#:: a fallen angel
#: '''''fallna''' äpplen''
#:: fallen apples

====Declension====
{{sv-adj-pastpart|en-stem=fall}}

===Noun===
{{head|sv|noun form}}

# {{sv-noun-form-def-pl|fall}}

[[az:fallen]]
[[br:fallen]]
[[cs:fallen]]
[[de:fallen]]
[[et:fallen]]
[[el:fallen]]
[[es:fallen]]
[[fa:fallen]]
[[fr:fallen]]
[[ko:fallen]]
[[hr:fallen]]
[[io:fallen]]
[[id:fallen]]
[[it:fallen]]
[[ka:fallen]]
[[ku:fallen]]
[[lv:fallen]]
[[lt:fallen]]
[[li:fallen]]
[[hu:fallen]]
[[mg:fallen]]
[[fj:fallen]]
[[nl:fallen]]
[[ja:fallen]]
[[ps:fallen]]
[[nds:fallen]]
[[pl:fallen]]
[[pt:fallen]]
[[ru:fallen]]
[[simple:fallen]]
[[fi:fallen]]
[[sv:fallen]]
[[tl:fallen]]
[[ta:fallen]]
[[te:fallen]]
[[th:fallen]]
[[tr:fallen]]
[[vi:fallen]]
[[zh:fallen]]