{{also|fellow-feeling}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[fellow-feeling]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A sense of [[sympathy]] for, [[consideration]] of, or [[shared]] [[interest]]s with one or more other human beings.
#* '''1817''', [[w:Samuel Taylor Coleridge|Samuel Taylor Coleridge]], ''Biographia Literaria'', ch. 2:
#*: [I]s the character and property of the man, who labours for our intellectual pleasures, less entitled to a share of our '''fellow feeling''', than that of the wine-merchant or milliner?
#* '''1857''', [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''The Confidence Man'', ch. 43:
#*: "[H]ow kindly we reciprocate each other's little delicacies, don't we? What better proof, now, that we are kind, considerate fellows, with responsive '''fellow-feelings'''—eh, barber?"
#* '''1917''', [[w:John Galsworthy|John Galsworthy]], ''Beyond'', ch. 15:
#*: But, mixed with her rage, a sort of unwilling compassion and '''fellow feeling''' kept rising for that girl, that silly, sugar-plum girl, brought to such a pass by—her husband.
#* '''2002''', Robert Sullivan, "[http://www.time.com/time/arts/article/0,8599,203479,00.html Week One: A Warm Winter Olympics]," ''Time'', 16 Feb.:
#*: Even when the wind blew cold, the fine sportsmanship and '''fellow feeling''' that is traditional to the Winter Games, lifted last week to an absurd height by the love-everybody snowboarders, the new let's do-right IOC and the continuing sympathy for the U. S. of A., was lovely to see — and to join.

====Synonyms====
* [[empathy]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A sense of [[sympathy]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|симпатия|f}}, {{t+|bg|разбирателство|n}}
{{trans-mid}}

{{trans-bottom}}

[[et:fellow feeling]]
[[fr:fellow feeling]]
[[hu:fellow feeling]]
[[ml:fellow feeling]]
[[pt:fellow feeling]]
[[ro:fellow feeling]]
[[ta:fellow feeling]]