{{also|fem}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|lang=en|Butch and femme}}

===Etymology===
{{PIE root|en|dʰeh₁(y)}}
From {{der|en|fr|femme||woman}}. Compare {{m|en|feme}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/fɛm/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[woman]], a [[wife]]; {{i|now chiefly North American}} a young woman or [[girl]]. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''1885''', {{w|Richard Francis Burton}}, ''The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night'', Night 18:
#*: Then I turned to him and said, "O my lord, I have that to propose to thee wherein thou must not cross me; and this it is that, when we reach Baghdad, my native city, I offer thee my life as thy handmaiden in holy matrimony, and thou shalt be to me baron and I will be '''femme''' to thee."
#*'''1983''', ''Variety's Film Reviews: 1964–1967'':
#*:Theodore J. Flicker and George Kirgo have penned a good script in which Elvis is played off against four '''femmes''' […].
# {{lb|en|LGBT}} A [[lesbian]] whose appearance, identity etc. is seen as [[feminine]] as opposed to [[butch]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#* '''2013''', Michelle Gibson, ‎Deborah Meem, ''Femme/Butch'', p. 103:
#*: I love butches, though. I dated a '''femme''' once. That was wrong on so many levels.
# {{lb|en|LGBT|uncommon}} A person who is not a woman but whose gender<!-- (and/or sex?)--> is feminine-leaning, such as a feminine non-binary person.
#* '''2018''', ''Queer Magic: Power Beyond Boundaries'' (Lee Harrington, Tai Fenix Kulystin), page 79:<!-- earlier in the book: "shifting from binary phrasing – “women” – to broader language – “women and femmes” or, as I often say, “women, femmes, and people who walk the world and are read as women” – goes a long way"-->
#*: The same is true of Goddess Spirituality spaces which are predicated on Radical Feminist rhetorics about Nature and the embodied experience – even those spaces which are open to trans women and nonbinary '''femmes''' may still fall back on language about the womb [...]
#* '''2019''', ''The Lemonade Reader: Beyoncé, Black Feminism and Spirituality'' (Kinitra D. Brooks, Kameelah L. Martin):
#*: {{...}} there is no story of Black pain deeper than that of Black fat women and '''femmes'''. {{...}}
#*: <sup>1</sup> Gender expansive for women, '''femmes''', and nonbinary folks.
#* '''2019''', ''Black Girl Magic Beyond the Hashtag'' (Julia S. Jordan-Zachery, Duchess Harris), page 21:
#*: Jordan-Zachery offers two dominant scripts that are often written onto Black women's, '''femmes'''&apos;, and girls' bodies: The Ass and Strong Black Woman scripts.
#* '''2019''', Kristen J. Sollee, ''Cat Call: Reclaiming the Feral Feminine'', page xvii:
#*: [...] and any person who might partake in feminine expression (cis and trans women and men, nonbinary '''femmes'''...).

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|LGBT}} {{l|en|butch}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|North America|journalism|entertainment}} Pertaining to a [[femme]]; [[feminine]], [[female]]. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#*'''2009''', Jeff Apter, ''Fornication: The Red Hot Chili Peppers Story'':
#*:Admittedly, Kiedis was concerned about the lack of '''femme''' rockers on the bill: the only women featured were in British band Lush, who would open each day's festivities before a few hundred curious onlookers.
#*'''2019''', Summer Brennan, ''The Guardian'', [https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2019/mar/20/sex-power-oppression-why-women-wear-high-heels 20 March]:
#*:High heels are something like neckties for women, in that it can be harder to look both formal and '''femme''' without them.
# {{lb|en|chiefly|derogatory}} [[effeminate|Effeminate]] (of a man). {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
# Characteristic of a feminine lesbian. {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''Her style was more '''femme''' than butch.''

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|LGBT}} {{l|en|butch}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|en femme}}

[[Category:en:People]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fr|frm|femme}}, from {{inh|fr|fro|fame}}, {{m|fro|femme}}, {{m|fro|feme}}, from {{inh|fr|la|fēmina}}, from {{inh|fr|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁m̥h₁néh₂|*dʰeh₁-m̥h₁n-éh₂|t=(the one) nursing, breastfeeding}}, derivation of the verbal root {{m|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁(y)-||to suck, suckle}}. Various spellings such as {{m|fro|feme}}, {{m|fro|fame}} and {{m|fro|fenme}} were used in {{inh|fr|fro|-}}.

See cognates in regional languages in France: {{cog|nrf|fame}}, {{cog|roa-gal|fame}}, {{cog|pcd|fanme}}, {{cog|roa-brg|fonne}}, {{cog|frp|fèna}}, {{cog|oc|femna}}, {{cog|co|femina}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA|famme}}
* {{audio|fr|Fr-femme.ogg|audio}}
* {{rhymes|fr|am}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[woman]]
#* '''1868''', [[w:Comte de Lautréamont|Comte de Lautréamont]], ''Les Chants de Maldoror''
#*: Ta grandeur morale, image de l’infini, est immense comme la réflexion du philosophe, comme l’amour de la '''femme''', comme la beauté divine de l’oiseau, comme les méditations du poète. Tu es plus beau que la nuit. Réponds-moi, océan, veux-tu être mon frère ?
#*:: Your moral grandeur, image of infinity, is as vast as the philosopher's reflections, as '''woman''''s love, as the divine beauty of the bird, as the meditations of the poet. You are more beautiful than the night. Answer me, ocean, will you be my brother ?
#: {{ant|fr|homme}}
# [[wife]]
#* '''1880''', [[w:Émile Zola|Émile Zola]], ''Nana''
#*: Ce fut le soir du mariage à l'église que le comte Muffat se présenta dans la chambre de sa '''femme''', où il n'était pas entré depuis deux ans.
#*:: It was on the night of the wedding at the church that Count Muffat appeared in his '''wife''''s bedroom, which he had not entered for two years past.
#: {{syn|fr|épouse}}
#: {{ant|fr|mari|époux}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|fr|femelle}}
* {{l|fr|féminin}}
* {{l|fr|femmelette}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|meuf}} {{lb|fr|[[verlan]]}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|gcf|fanm}}
* {{desc|gcr|fanm}}
* {{desc|ht|fanm}}
* {{desc|kmv|fam}}
* {{desc|lou|fam}}, {{l|lou|fenm}}
* {{desc|crs|fanm}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Middle French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|frm|fro|fame}}, {{m|fro|femme}}, {{m|fro|feme}}, from {{inh|frm|la|femina}}, from {{inh|frm|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁m̥h₁néh₂|*dʰeh₁-m̥h₁n-éh₂|t=(the one) nursing, breastfeeding}}, derivation of the verbal root {{m|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁(y)-||to suck, suckle}}. Various spellings such as {{m|fro|feme}}, {{m|fro|fame}} and {{m|fro|fenme}} were used in {{inh|frm|fro|-}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|frm|/ˈfa.mə/}}

===Noun===
{{frm-noun|f}}

# [[wife]]
# [[woman]] {{gloss|female adult human being}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|woman}} {{l|frm|dame}}

====Descendants====
* {{desctree|fr|femme}}

----

==Norman==
{{wikipedia|Fenme|lang=nrf}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|nrf|fâme|faume|faumme||Guernsey}}
* {{alter|nrf|foume||continental Normandy}}
* {{alter|nrf|fenme||Cotentin}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nrf|fro|femme}}, {{m|fro|feme}}, {{m|fro|fame}}, {{m|fro|fenme}}, from {{inh|nrf|la|fēmina}}, from {{inh|nrf|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁-m̥n-eh₂||who sucks}}, derivation of the verbal root {{m|ine-pro|*dʰeh₁(y)-||to suck, suckle}}.

===Noun===
{{nrf-noun|f}}

# {{lb|nrf|Jersey|France}} [[wife]]
# {{lb|nrf|Jersey|France}} [[woman]]

{{topics|nrf|Female|Human}}

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|f}}

# {{alternative form of|fro|fame}}

----

==Poitevin-Saintongeais==

===Etymology===
{{inh|roa-poi|la|femina}}.

===Noun===
{{head|roa-poi|noun}}

# [[woman]]
#: {{ux|roa-poi|en boune femme|a good woman}}

===Further reading===
* Pierre Rézeau, ''Le "Vocabulaire poitevin" (1808–1825) de Lubin Mauduyt: Édition critique'' (1994)