==English==

{{rank|face|tell|because|177|few|whom|love|far}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[fēaw]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/fjuː/}}, {{SAMPA|/fju:/}}
*{{audio|en-us-few.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uː|-uː]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|fewer|fewest}}

# More than [[one]], but not as many as usual or as expected.
#:''There are '''few''' people who understand [[quantum theory]].''
# {{meteorology}} {{not comparable}} (Of the sky) one eighth to two eighths obscured by clouds
# {{meteorology}} {{not comparable}} (Of clouds) covering one eighth to two eighths of the sky

====Usage notes====
*'''Few''' is used with plural nouns only.  With uncountable nouns, ''[[little]]'' should be used.
*'''Few''', to some Americans, normally indicates a quantity of three.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|more than one, but not as many as usual or as expected}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|pak|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic:
*: Egyptian: {{ARchar|[[شوية]]}} (šuwayya)
* [[Catalan]]: [[poc]]
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|malo}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|få}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|weinig}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|malmulta|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harva}}, {{t+|fi|vähän}}, {{t+|fi|muutama}}
* French: {{t+|fr|peu}}
* German: {{t+|de|wenig}}
* Greek: λίγοι (pl. of {{t|el|λίγος|sc=Grek}}), {{t|el|μερικοί|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kevés}}
* [[Ido]]: [[poka]]
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|sedikit|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|poco}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[少し]] (すこし, sukoshi)
* Korean: [[적다]] (jeokda)
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|که‌م|sc=KUchar}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|få}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mało}}, {{t+|pl|niewiele}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|poucos}} {{m}}, [[poucas]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|немногий|tr=nemnogij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|poco}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|få}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[కొద్ది]] (koddi), [[కొలది]] (koladi)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''meteorology'') 1-2 eights covered with clouds}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''meteorology'') covering 1-2 eighths of the sky}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[a few]]
* [[little]]
* [[quite a few]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# An [[indefinite]] small [[number]] of things or people.
#:''I don't know how many drinks I've had, but I've had a '''few'''.''
# A small [[elite]] group.
#:''He flew spitfires with the '''few'''.'' <!-- capitalized? -->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|small number}}
* Finnish: [[muutama]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[که‌مێ]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|elite group}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harva|alt=harvat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Pronoun===
'''few'''

# A small [[number]] of things or people.
#:''I was expecting lots of people at the party, but '''few''' turned up.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|small number}}
* Finnish: [[vähän]], [[muutama]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|pochi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[که‌م]]}}
* Portuguese: [[poucos]] {{m}}, [[poucas]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[pocos]] {{m}}, [[pocas]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English determiners]]

[[zh-min-nan:few]]
[[es:few]]
[[fr:few]]
[[io:few]]
[[id:few]]
[[it:few]]
[[kk:few]]
[[ku:few]]
[[hu:few]]
[[ja:few]]
[[pl:few]]
[[ru:few]]
[[simple:few]]
[[fi:few]]
[[sv:few]]
[[ta:few]]
[[te:few]]
[[vi:few]]
[[tr:few]]
[[zh:few]]