{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Fifth}}
==English==
{{ordinalbox|en|4th|5th|6th|fourth|sixth|card=five}}

===Pronunciation===
{{tearoom}}
* {{a|UK|US|standard}} {{IPA|/fɪfθ/}}, {{SAMPA|/fɪfT/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-fifth.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪfθ}}
* {{a|UK|US|informal or dialectal}} {{IPA|/fɪθ/}}, {{SAMPA|/fIT/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪθ}}

====Usage notes====
In the UK the latter pronunciation is typically confined to lazy informal speech. In the United States it is a feature of some urban and African American dialects. The first pronunciation is both standard and vastly more common in both regions.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# The ordinal form of the number [[five]].

====Synonyms====
: [[5th]], 5<sup>th</sup>; (''in names of monarchs and popes'') [[V]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Ordinal form of the number 5}}
* [[Breton]]: [[pempvet]]
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|cinquè|m}} (''abbreviation'' 5è), {{t-|ca|quint|m}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[beşıncı]]
* Czech: [[pátý]] (''abbreviation'' 5.)
* Danish: [[femte]] (''abbreviation'' 5.)
* Dutch: [[vijfde]] (''abbreviations'' 5de, 5e)
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kvina|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viides}}
* French: [[cinquième]] (''before the noun'') (''abbreviation'' 5<sup>ème</sup>); (''in names of monarchs and popes'') [[cinq]] (''after the name'') (''abbreviation'' V)
* German: [[fünfte]] (''abbreviation'' 5.)
* Greek: {{t+|el|πέμπτος}} (''abbreviation'': 5<sup>ος</sup> {{m}}, 5<sup>η</sup> {{f}}, 5<sup>ο</sup> {{n}}; ''[[Greek numerals|Greek numeral system]]'': Ε΄, ε΄)
* Hebrew: [[חמישי]] (Kha'mi'shi) {{m}}, [[חמישית]] (Kha'mi'shit) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ötödik}}
* Icelandic: [[fimmti]] {{m}}, [[fimmta]] {{f|n}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|kinesma|xs=Ido}}
* Indonesian: [[kelima]] (''abbreviation'' ke-5)
* [[Interlingua]]: [[quinte]] (''abbreviation'' 5<sup>e</sup>)
* Irish: cúigiú (''abbreviation'' 5ú)
* Italian: [[quinto]] {{m}}, [[quinta]] {{f}} (''before the noun'') (''abbreviations'' 5º {{m}}, 5ª {{f}}); (''in names of monarchs and popes'') quinto {{m}}, quinta {{f}} (''after the name'') (''abbreviation'' V)
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[五番目]] (ごばんめ, goban-me)
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|penktas|m|xs=Lithuanian}}, {{t+|lt|penkta|f|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Maltese: [[il-ħames]]
* [[Manchu]]: ([[sunjaci]])
* Mandarin: {{t|cmn|第五|tr=dìwǔ|sc=Hani}}
* [[Manx]]: queiggoo (''abbreviation'' 5oo)
* Norwegian: [[femte]] (''abbreviation'' 5.)
* Polish: [[piąty]] {{m}}, [[piąta]] {{f}}, [[piąte]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: [[quinto]] {{m}}, [[quinta]] {{f}} (''abbreviations'' 5º{{m}}, 5ª{{f}})
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|cincilea|m}}, {{t-|ro|cincea|f}}
* Russian: [[пятый]] (''abbreviation'' 5-ый)
* Spanish: [[quinto]] {{m}}, [[quinta]] {{f}} (''abbreviations'' 5º {{m}}, 5ª {{f}})
* Swedish: [[femte]] (''abbreviation'' 5:e)
* [[Tatar]]: [[бишенче]]
* Turkish: [[beşinci]] (''abbreviation'' 5.)
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thứ năm|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: pumed (''abbreviation'' 5ed)
* [[West Frisian]]: [[fyfde]] (''abbreviation'' 5e)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The person or thing in the fifth position.
# One of five equal parts of a whole.
# The fifth [[gear]] of an engine.
# A quantity of liquor equal to one-fifth of a gallon.
# The musical [[interval]] between one note and another five [[tone]]s higher.

====Translations====

{{trans-top|person or thing in the fifth position}}
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|第五|tr=dìwǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: den [[femte]] {{c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|viides}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cinquième|m|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Fünfte|m|f|n}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[quinto]] {{m}}, [[quinta]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|quinto|m}}, {{t+|it|quinta|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|penktas|m|xs=Lithuanian}}, {{t+|lt|penkta|f|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quinto|m}}, {{t+|pt|quinta|f}}
* Romanian: [[cel al cincilea]] {{m}}, [[cea a cincea]] {{f}}
* Swedish: (den) [[femte]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one of five equal parts of a whole}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|cinquè|m}},  {{t-|ca|quint|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kvinono}}
* Finnish: [[viidennes]], [[viidesosa]]
* French: {{t+|fr|cinquième|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Fünftel|n}}
* Greek: [[πέμπτο]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[quinto]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|quinto|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|penktadalis|m|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quinto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|femtedel|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|fifth gear}}

{{trans-top|quantity of liquor equal to one-fifth of a gallon}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|musical interval}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|quinta|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|kwint|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quinte|f}}
* German: {{t|de|Quinte|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[Fifth Amendment]]
* [[fifth gear]]
* [[fifth wheel]]
* [[take the Fifth]]

[[Category:Ordinal numbers]]

[[et:fifth]]
[[el:fifth]]
[[fr:fifth]]
[[ko:fifth]]
[[hr:fifth]]
[[io:fifth]]
[[id:fifth]]
[[it:fifth]]
[[kk:fifth]]
[[ku:fifth]]
[[lo:fifth]]
[[lt:fifth]]
[[hu:fifth]]
[[ml:fifth]]
[[nl:fifth]]
[[ja:fifth]]
[[oc:fifth]]
[[pl:fifth]]
[[simple:fifth]]
[[fi:fifth]]
[[sv:fifth]]
[[ta:fifth]]
[[te:fifth]]
[[vi:fifth]]
[[zh:fifth]]