{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[Finnglish]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{US|regional}} A variant of Finnish language that is spoken by the descendants of Finnish immigrants to North America, the vocabulary of which is heavily influenced by English. It is far from being a uniform language, mainly exists in spoken form, and seems bound to disappear.
# {{context|derogative}} A way of speaking Finnish using English-language terminology excessively. It is particularly common among those professions which are in close contact with the English-speaking world such as IT-professionals, marketing people and managers of global firms.
# {{context|derogative}} English spoken with a heavy Finnish accent and using Finnish linguistic structures.

====Synonyms====
'''variant of Finnish spoken in North America'''
* [[American]] [[Finnish]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|variant of Finnish}}
* Finnish: [[amerikansuomi]], [[fingelska]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|way of speaking Finnish using English terminology}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|fingliska}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|broken English}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|fingliska}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* A Wikimirror article on Finglish [http://www.wikimirror.com/Finglish]
* ''My Father Spoke Finglish at Work: Finnish Americans in Northeast Ohio''; a book by Noreen Sippola Fairburn, Kent State University Press (June 30, 2007), language: English, ISBN-13: 978-0873389099.
* ''Finglish'', an article by Robert W. Hellstrom in the journal ''American Speech'', Vol. 51, No. 1/2 (Spring - Summer, 1976), pp. 85-93 doi:10.2307/455358