==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|fĭn'ĭsh}}
* {{IPA|/ˈfɪnɪʃ/}}
* {{SAMPA|/"fInIS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-finish.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en-uk-finnish.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

====Homophones====
* [[Finnish]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# The [[end]] of anything.
# A protective coating given to wood or metal and other surfaces.
#: ''The car's finish was so shiny and new''.
# A score similar to a touchdown in the game of [[scuffleball]], worth four points.
# (of textiles) The result of any process changing the physical or chemical properties of cloth.

====Translations====

{{trans-top|end}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|meta|f}}, {{t-|ca|fita|f}}
* Chinese: [[终结]]
* Danish: [[slutning]] {{c}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|eindstreep|f}}, {{t-|nl|finish|f}}, {{t+|nl|meet|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|loppu}}, {{t+|fi|maali}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fin|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ende|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τέλος|n|tr=télos|sc=Grek}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|fin|xs=Interlingua}}, {{t-|ia|termination|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|fine|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|avslutning}} {{m|f}}, {{t|no|slutt|m}}
* Latvian: [[beigas]] {{f}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|koniec|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|fim|m}}, {{t-|pt|acabamento|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|meta|f}}, {{t+|es|fin|m}}
* [[Volapük]]: [[fin]], [[finük]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|protective coating}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|finish|c}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pintakäsittely}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fini|m}}
* German: {{t-|de|Lack|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|score in scuffleball}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|finishes|finishing|finished}}

# {{transitive}} To complete (something).
#: ''Please '''finish''' your homework!''
# {{transitive}} To apply a treatment to (a surface, etc).
#: ''The furniture was '''finished''' in teak veneer.''
# {{transitive}} To change an animal's food supply in the months before it is due for slaughter, with the intention of fattening the animal.
#: ''Due to BSE, cows in the United Kingdom must be '''finished''' and slaughtered before 30 months of age.''
# {{intransitive}}: To come to an end.
#: ''The song has '''finished'''.''

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|transitive, to complete}} This is a [[catenative]] verb that takes the [[gerund]] (the {{term|-ing}} form). See [[Appendix:English catenative verbs]]

====Translations====

{{trans-top|to complete}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dokončit}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|afwerken}}, {{t-|nl|beëindigen}}
* Finnish: [[lopettaa]] (1), [[viimeistellä]] (2)
* French: {{t+|fr|finir}}, {{t-|fr|achever}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t-|gl|acabar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|beenden}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|τελειώνω|tr=teleióno|sc=Grek}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|finir|xs=Interlingua}}, {{t-|ia|terminar|xs=Interlingua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: [[críochnaigh]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|finire}}
* Latvian: [[beigt]], [[pabeigt]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|avslutte}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acabar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|acabar}}, {{t-|es|terminar}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ముగించు]] (mugimchu) [[పూర్తిచేయు]] (poorthicheyu)
* [[Volapük]]: [[fimekön]], [[finükön]], [[lemekön]]
* Thai: [[เสร็จ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to apply a final treatment to}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|viimeistellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to come to an end}}
* Czech: [[skončit]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|ophouden}}, {{t-|nl|eindigen}}, {{t-|nl|gedaan zijn}}
* French: {{t+|fr|finir}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|τελειώνω|tr=teleióno|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|finire}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[అంతమవు]] (antamavu), [[పూర్తవు]] (poortavu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* [[finish line]]
* [[finishing school]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
'''finish''' ''c''

# finish (protective coating)

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''finish''' ''f''

# finish, end

[[el:finish]]
[[es:finish]]
[[fr:finish]]
[[ko:finish]]
[[io:finish]]
[[it:finish]]
[[hu:finish]]
[[ja:finish]]
[[pl:finish]]
[[scn:finish]]
[[fi:finish]]
[[sv:finish]]
[[ta:finish]]
[[te:finish]]
[[vi:finish]]
[[tr:finish]]
[[zh:finish]]