{{also|fît|Fit}}
==English==

{{rank|spot|wonderful|shook|944|fit|distribute|ordinary|forms}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/fɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-fit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
From the noun ''fit''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|fits|fitting|'''[[fitted]] '''or''' [[fit]]'''|'''[[fitted]]''' or '''[[fit]]'''}}

# {{intransitive}} Of an [[object]], to be of the right [[size]] and [[shape]] so as to [[match]] another object.
#: ''I want to '''fit''' the drapes to the design of the room''
# {{intransitive}} Of [[clothing]], to be of the right [[size]] and [[cut]].
# {{transitive}} To [[tailor]]; to change to the appropriate size.
# {{intransitive}} To be [[fitting]]; to [[suit]].
#* '''1918''', Richard Dennis Teall Hollister, ''Speech-making'', publ. George Wahr, [http://books.google.com/books?id=yNJGAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA81&dq=%22fits%22 pg. 81]:
#*: The speaker should be certain that his subject '''fits''' the occasion.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[fit as a fiddle]]
* [[fit like a glove]]
* [[fit up]]
* [[misfit]]
* [[unfit]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Of an object, to match another object}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ناسب|tr=naasaba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սազել|tr=sazel}},  {{t-|hy|բռնել|tr=bṙnel}},  {{t|hy|համապատասխանել|tr=hamapatasxanel}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|適合|适合|shìhé}}, {{zh-tsp|合適|合适|héshì}}
* Danish: [[passe sammen]]
* French: {{t+|fr|ajuster}}, {{t+|fr|adapter}}
* German: {{t+|de|passen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|התאים|tr=hit'ím}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[vader]] [[ben]] a
* Japanese: [[合う]] ([[あう]], au), [[合わせる]] ([[あわせる]], awaseru), [[適合]][[する]] (tekigou-suru)
* Latvian: [[sakrist]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подходить|tr=podxodít'}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|passa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uymak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Of clothing, to have right size and cut}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ناسب|tr=naasaba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սազել|tr=sazel}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|適合|适合|shìhé}}, {{zh-tsp|合適|合适|héshì}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|sedět}}, {{t-|cs|padnout}}
* Danish: [[passe til]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|passen}}
* German: {{t+|de|passen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|התאים|tr=hit'ím}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: [[sesuai|menyesuaikan]], [[cocok|mencocokkan]], [[pas|mempaskan]]
* Japanese: [[合う]] ([[あう]], au), [[合わせる]] ([[あわせる]], awaseru),  {{t|ja|適する|tr=teki-suru}}
* Latvian: [[derēt]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caber}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подходить|tr=podxodít'}},  {{t|ru|быть впору|tr=byt' vpóru}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|quedar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|passa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uymak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to tailor}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|սազեցնել|tr=sazec’nel}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|適應|适应|shìyìng}}
* Danish: [[tilpasse]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanpassen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ajuster}}
* German: {{t+|de|passen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|התאים|tr=hit'ím}}
* Indonesian: [[adjustar]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ajustar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|подгонять|tr=podgonját'}},  {{t|ru|прилаживать|tr=priláživat'}},  {{t|ru|приспосабливать|tr=prisposáblivat'}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|uydurmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From the noun ''fit''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|fitt|er}}

# in good shape
# [[suitable]]
#* {{quote-book|year=2005|by=[[w:Plato|Plato]]|title=Sophist|author=Lesley Brown|note=[[w:Stephanus pagination|243d]]
|passage=The rest we'll leave to be examined later, if we think '''fit''';}}
# {{British|slang}} good looking, [[fanciable]], [[attractive]], [[beautiful]]
#: ''I think the girl working in the office is '''fit'''.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[fittie]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|in good shape}}
* Danish: [[i form]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fit}}
* Indonesian: fit, [[sehat]], [[segar bugar]], [[sesuai]], [[cocok]], [[serasi]], [[pas]], [[tepat]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[in forma]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|in forma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[元気]] ([[げんき]], genki), [[健康]] ([[けんこう]], kenkō), [[合う]] ([[あう]], au), [[似合う]] ([[にあう]], niau), [[適する]] ([[てきする]], teki-suru), [[適切]] ([[てきせつ]], tekisetsu)
* Portuguese: em ([[boa]]) [[forma]]
* Spanish: en ([[buena]]) [[forma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|suitable}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|պատշաճ|tr=patšač̣}},  {{t-|hy|պիտանի|tr=pitani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|vhodný|m}}
* Danish: [[passende]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Hiligaynon]]: {{tø|hil|dapat|alt=dápat}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|adatto}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|passande}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|good-looking female}}
* German: {{t+|de|sexy}}, {{t+|de|scharf}}, {{t+|de|heiß}}
* Japanese: [[美人]] (bijin), [[別嬪]] (beppin) (a little bit archaic)
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|läcker}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Old English ''[[fitt]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The degree to which something fits something else.
#: ''This shirt is a bad '''fit'''.''
#: ''Since he put on weight, his jeans have been a tight '''fit'''.''
# (Advertising) how well a particular commercial execution captures the character or values of a brand.
#: ''The Wonder Bread advertising research results showed the “White Picket Fence” commercial had strong '''fit''' ratings.''

=====Usage notes=====
Usually used in the singular preceded by an indefinite article and an adjective.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|degree to which something fits}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|pasvorm|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Paßform]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====References=====
''for 2nd definition: The Advertising Research Handbook'' Charles E. Young, Ideas in Flight, Seattle, WA, April 2005

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{medicine}} A [[seizure]] or [[convulsion]].
# {{medicine}} A [[sudden]] and [[vigorous]] [[appearance]] of a [[symptom]] over a short period of time; as, a coughing fit
# A [[sudden]] [[outburst]] of [[emotion]].
#: ''He had a laughing '''fit''' which lasted more than ten minutes.''
#: ''She had a '''fit''' and had thrown all of his clothes out of the window.''
# {{archaic}} A [[section]] of a [[poem]] or [[ballad]].
#* '''1771''', [[w:Samuel Johnson|Samuel Johnson]], "Letter to Bennet Langton, Esq. (March 20)," in [[w:James Boswell|James Boswell]], ''[[w:Life of Samuel Johnson|Life of Samuel Johnson]]'' (1791), vol 2:
#*: Dr. Percy has written a long ballad in many '''''fits'''''.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|sudden outburst of emotion}} [[blowout]], [[hissy]], [[tantrum]], [[spell]], [[moment]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from ''fit'' (noun)}}
* [[have a fit]]
* [[hissy fit]]
* [[shit fit]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[snit fit]]
* [[throw a fit]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|seizure}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|slagtilfælde|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kohtaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|crise|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anfall|m}}
* Hebrew: [[התקף]] (hetkef) {{m}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|मिर्गी|f|tr=mirgee|xs=Hindi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|roham}}
* Latvian: [[lēkme]]
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|iichʼąh}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|Anfall}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|మూర్చ|tr=moorcha}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|مرگی|f|tr=mirgee|xs=Urdu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sudden and vigorous appearance of a symptom}}
* Finnish: [[kohtaus]], [[sairaskohtaus]]
* German: {{t+|de|Anfall|m}}
* Hungarian: [[roham]], [[epizód]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: [[lēkme]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|crisis}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sudden outburst of emotion}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kohtaus}}, {{t-|fi|puuska}}
* French: {{t+|fr|crise|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anfall|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[התקף]] (hetkef ''of something'') {{m}}, [[קריזה]] (kriza ''negative'') {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kitörés}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|crise|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|fit|t|ed}}

# {{intransitive}} {{medicine}} To [[suffer]] a fit.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|fit}}
* [[fœti#English|fœti]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Catalan==

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|f=fita|mpl=fits|fpl=fites}}

# [[fixed]] (of eyes, regard, etc.)

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[target]]

----

==Czech==

===Adjective===
{{cs-adj|g=}}

# [[#English|fit]], [[healthy]]

====Usage notes====
* This adjective is indeclinable.

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-fit.ogg|audio}}

===Adjective===
'''fit''' (fitte, comparative: [[fitter]], superlative: [[fitst]])

# fit (''in good shape'')

----

==French==

===Verb===
'''fit'''

# ''third-person singular indicative past historic of [[faire]]''

[[Category:French verb forms]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
{{is-noun|f|fitjar|fitjar}}
* {{zoology|lang=is}} [[web]], a [[membrane]] that connects the digits of an animal

# {{defn|Icelandic}}

====Related terms====
* [[fuglafit]]
* [[fuglsfit]]
* [[sundfit]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|fit}}

# {{conjugation of|[[facio#Latin|faciō]]||3|s|pres|pass|ind}}

----

==Scots==

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# [[foot]]
# [[lower]] [[end]] {{gloss|of a street, river, field etc}}
# [[what]] {{gloss|Doric}}

====Derived terms====
* [[fitbaw]]

===Verb===
{{sco-verb}}

# to [[foot]]

[[ar:fit]]
[[de:fit]]
[[et:fit]]
[[es:fit]]
[[fa:fit]]
[[fr:fit]]
[[ko:fit]]
[[io:fit]]
[[id:fit]]
[[it:fit]]
[[ku:fit]]
[[hu:fit]]
[[nl:fit]]
[[ja:fit]]
[[no:fit]]
[[pl:fit]]
[[pt:fit]]
[[ru:fit]]
[[simple:fit]]
[[fi:fit]]
[[ta:fit]]
[[te:fit]]
[[th:fit]]
[[tr:fit]]
[[vi:fit]]
[[vo:fit]]
[[wo:fit]]
[[zh:fit]]