{{also|Flash}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From the {{etyl|enm|en}} word {{term|flashen||to splash|lang=enm}}, a variant of {{term|flasken|lang=enm}}, which was likely of imitative origin.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-flash.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ}}
* {{hyphenation|flash}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|flash|es}}

# To [[brief]]ly [[illuminate]] a [[scene]].
#: {{usex|He '''flashed''' the light at the water, trying to see what made the noise.|lang=en}}
# To [[blink]]; to [[shine]] or [[illuminate]] [[intermittent]]ly.
#* {{quote-book|year=1907|author={{w|Robert W. Chambers}}|title=The Younger Set
|chapter=5|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL8127246W
|passage=Breezes blowing from beds of iris quickened her breath with their perfume ; […] ; she saw a crimson cardinal winging through the foliage, and amorous tanagers '''flashing''' like scarlet flames athwart the pines.}}
#: {{usex|The light '''flashed''' on and off.|lang=en}}
# To be [[visible]] briefly.
#* {{quote-book|year=1918|author={{w|W. B. Maxwell}}|chapter=5
|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1097634W The Mirror and the Lamp]
|passage=Here, in the transept and choir, where the service was being held, one was conscious every moment of an increasing brightness; colours glowing vividly beneath the circular chandeliers, and the rows of small lights on the choristers' desks '''flashed''' and sparkled in front of the boys' faces, deep linen collars, and red neckbands.}}
#: {{usex|The scenery '''flashed''' by quickly.|lang=en}}
# To make visible briefly.
#: {{usex|A number will be '''flashed''' on the screen.|lang=en}}
# {{context|figurative|lang=en}} To break forth like a sudden flood of light; to show a momentary brilliance.
#* Talfourd
#*: names which have '''flashed''' and thundered as the watch words of unnumbered struggles
#* M. Arnold
#*: The object is made to '''flash''' upon the eye of the mind.
#* Tennyson
#*: A thought '''flashed''' through me, which I clothed in act.
# To [[flaunt]]; to [[display]] in a showy manner.
#: {{usex|He '''flashed''' a wad of hundred-dollar bills.|lang=en}}
# To [[communicate]] quickly.
#: {{usex|The news services '''flashed''' the news about the end of the war to all corners of the globe.|lang=en}}
#: ''to '''flash''' a message along the telephone wires''
#: ''to '''flash''' conviction on the mind''
# {{context|computing|lang=en}} To write to the [[memory]] of an updatable component such as a [[BIOS]] chip or games cartridge.
# {{context|ambitransitive|informal|lang=en}} To expose one's [[naked]] [[body]] or [[underwear]], or part of it, in [[public]] briefly.
# {{context|[[metallurgy]]|lang=en}} To release the [[pressure]] from a pressurized [[vessel]].
# {{context|[[juggling]]|lang=en}} To perform a [[#Noun|flash]].
# To [[move]], or cause to move, [[suddenly]]
#* {{quote-news|year=2011|date=January 11|author=Jonathan Stevenson
|title=West Ham 2 - 1 Birmingham|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/league_cup/9354485.stm
|passage=But they survived some real pressure as David Murphy '''flashed''' a header inches wide of Rob Green's right-hand post&nbsp;[&hellip;].}}
# {{context|glassmaking|lang=en}} To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a different colour.
# To trick up in a showy manner.
#* A. Brewer
#*: Limning and '''flashing''' it with various dyes.
# To strike and throw up large bodies of water from the surface; to splash.
#* Spenser
#*: He rudely '''flashed''' the waves about.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[telephone]] a person, only allowing the phone to ring once, in order to request a call back.
#: ''Susan '''flashed''' Jessica, and then Jessica called her back, because Susan didn't have enough credit on her phone to make the call.
# {{context|intransitive|of liquid|lang=en}} To [[evaporate]] suddenly. See {{w|Flash evaporation}}.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to briefly illuminate}} [[glint]]
* {{sense|telephoning}} [[beep]]

====Derived terms====
* [[flashback]]
* [[flasher]]
* [[flashforward]]
* [[flashing]]
* [[flashlight]]
* [[flash up]]

====Related terms====
* [[flush]] {{qualifier|possibly}}

====See also====
* [[gleam]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to briefly illuminate a scene}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|проблясвам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|閃光|闪光}} ([[shǎn]][[guāng]])
* Danish: {{t|da|lyse}}, {{t|da|skinne}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|väläyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вспыхивать|impf|tr=vspýxivat'|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|вспыхнуть|pf|tr=vspýxnut'|sc=Cyrl}}
* Serbian: {{t|sh|plamsaj}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lysa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to blink}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|примигвам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Danish: {{t|da|blinke}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vilkkua}}, {{t|fi|välkkyä}} {{qualifier|of light}}
* French: {{t+|fr|clignoter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|blinken}}
* Latin: {{t|la|coruscare}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|karamu}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blinka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be visible briefly}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|проблясвам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[閃]][[現]]|[[闪]][[现]]}} ([[shǎn]][[xiàn]])
* Danish: {{t|da|glimte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vilahtaa}}, {{t|fi|välähtää}} {{qualifier|of light}}
* Latin: {{t|la|fulgēre}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|glimta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make visible briefly}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|[[使]][[閃]][[現]]|[[使]][[闪]][[现]]}} ([[shǎn]][[xiàn]])
{{trans-mid}}
* Danish: blive [[vise|vist]] i {{t|da|glimt}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vilauttaa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to display showily}}
* Latin: {{t|la|ostentare}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to expose one's naked body briefly in public}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|故意走光|tr=gùyìzǒuguāng|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t|da|blotte|alt=blotte sig}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vilauttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|s'exhiber}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapohane}}, {{t|mi|whakapōhanehane}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blotta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|flashes}}

# A [[sudden]], [[short]], [[temporary]] [[burst]] of [[light]].
# {{context|figurative|lang=en}} A sudden and brilliant burst, as of [[wit]] or [[genius]].
#* Shakespeare
#*: the '''flash''' and outbreak of a fiery mind
#* Wirt
#*: No striking sentiment, no '''flash''' of fancy.
# {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} A language, created by a [[minority]] to maintain cultural identity, that cannot be understood by the ruling class; for example, [[Ebonics]].
# A very [[short]] [[amount]] of [[time]].
#* Francis Bacon
#*: The Persians and Macedonians had it for a '''flash'''.
#* '''1876,''' [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''The Adventures of Tom Sawyer'',
#*: Quick—something must be done! done in a '''flash''', too! But the very imminence of the emergency paralyzed his invention.
#* '''2011''', Phil McNulty, ''Euro 2012: Montenegro 2-2 England'' [http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15195384.stm]
#*: Fabio Capello insisted Rooney was in the right frame of mind to play in stormy Podgorica despite his father's arrest on Thursday in a probe into alleged betting irregularities, but his '''flash''' of temper - when he kicked out at Miodrag Dzudovic - suggested otherwise.
# [[material|Material]] left around the [[edge]] of a [[mould|moulded]] [[part]] at the parting line of the [[mould]].
# {{context|Cockney|lang=en}} The [[strips]] of bright [[cloth]] or [[buttons]] worn around the collars of [[market]] [[traders]].
# {{context|US|colloquial|lang=en}} A [[flashlight]] or electric [[torch]].
#* '''1939''', {{w|Raymond Chandler}}, ''The Big Sleep'', Penguin 2011, p. 34:
#*: I reached a '''flash''' out of my car pocket and went down-grade and looked at the car.
# {{context|juggling|lang=en}} A pattern where each [[prop]] is thrown and caught only once.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} A preparation of [[capsicum]], burnt [[sugar]], etc., for colouring [[liquor]] to make it look stronger.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|sudden, short, temporary burst of light}} [[gleam]], [[glint]]
* {{sense|material left around the edge of a mould}} moulding flash, molding flash

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|very short amount of time}} [[aeon]]

====Hypernyms====
* {{sense|sudden, short, temporary burst of light}} [[light]]

====Derived terms====
* [[antiflash]]
* [[camera flash]]
* [[flashy]]
* [[flashbulb]]
* [[flash flood]]
* [[flash in the pan]]
* [[flash memory]]
* [[flash photography]]
* [[flash point]]
* [[flashproof]]
* [[in a flash]]
* [[quick as a flash]]

====See also====
* [[sparkle]], [[shimmer]], [[glimmer]], [[twinkle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|burst of light}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|блясък|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|bg|блясване|n|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-ts|閃爍|闪烁}} ([[shǎn]][[shuò]])
* Czech: {{t|cs|záblesk|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|glimt|n}}, {{t+|da|lyn|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|flits|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ekbrilo}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|välähdys}}, {{t|fi|väläys}}, {{t+|fi|leimaus}}, {{t+|fi|leimahdus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Blitz|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|baleno|m}}, {{t+|it|lampo|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|błysk|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вспышка|f|tr=vspýška}}, {{t+|ru|сверкание|n|tr=sv'erkánije}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|lasair|f}}, {{t|gd|plathadh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|relámpago|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blixt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|linguistics: language created by a repressed minority}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|alakieli}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|very short amount of time}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|миг|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vilaus}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|material left around the edge of a moulded part}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|purse}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skägg|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: {{t+|ja|フラッシュ|tr=furasshu|sc=Jpan}}
* {{ttbc|ur}}: {{t|ur|چمک|tr=chamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|British|_|and|_|New Zealand|slang|lang=en}} [[expensive|Expensive]]-looking and demanding [[attention]]; [[stylish]]; [[showy]].
#*'''1892''', Banjo Paterson, ''[[s:The Man from Ironbark|The Man from Ironbark]]''
#*:The barber man was small and '''flash''', as barbers mostly are,
#*:He wore a strike-your-fancy sash, he smoked a huge cigar;
# {{context|UK|of a person|lang=en}} Having plenty of [[ready money]].
# {{context|UK|of a person|lang=en}} Liable to show off expensive possessions or money.
# {{context|US|slang|lang=en}} Occurring very rapidly, almost instantaneously.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expensive looking and attention worthy}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|показен|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|крещящ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|[[俗]][[豔]]的|tr=súyànde|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Danish: {{t|da|flot}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pramea}}, {{t+|fi|korea}}, {{t+|fi|fiini}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}}
* For the sense ‘a short period of time’, the '''1858''' ''Notes and Queries'' of Martim de Albuquerque was consulted. From page 437 of the sixth volume of the second series, published in London by Bell & Dally, 186 Fleet Street, in 1858 :
*: ''Ought we not to collect for posterity the various ways in which very short times are denoted. Besides the one at the head, there are, — [[in no time]], [[in next to no time]], [[in less than no time]], [[in a trice]], [[in a jiffy]], [[in a brace of shakes]], [[before you can say Jack Robinson]], [[in a crack]], [[in the squeezing of a lemon]], [[in the doubling of your fist]], [[in the twinkling of an eye]], [[in a moment]], [[in an instant]], [[in a flash]].''

===Anagrams===
* [[halfs#English|halfs]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|flash}} {{gloss|burst of light}}
# {{context|photography|lang=fr}} {{l|en|flash}}
# [[newsflash]]
# {{context|juggling|lang=fr}} {{l|en|flash}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|flasher}}

[[ar:flash]]
[[cs:flash]]
[[cy:flash]]
[[de:flash]]
[[et:flash]]
[[es:flash]]
[[fa:flash]]
[[fr:flash]]
[[ko:flash]]
[[hr:flash]]
[[io:flash]]
[[it:flash]]
[[kn:flash]]
[[ku:flash]]
[[lt:flash]]
[[li:flash]]
[[hu:flash]]
[[mg:flash]]
[[ml:flash]]
[[my:flash]]
[[nl:flash]]
[[pl:flash]]
[[pt:flash]]
[[ro:flash]]
[[sm:flash]]
[[simple:flash]]
[[fi:flash]]
[[sv:flash]]
[[tl:flash]]
[[ta:flash]]
[[te:flash]]
[[chr:flash]]
[[tr:flash]]
[[vi:flash]]
[[zh:flash]]