{{Unreferenced|date=October 2007}}

'''Flexitarianism''' is a term used in the United States to describe the practice of eating mainly [[vegetarian food]], but making occasional exceptions for social, pragmatic, cultural, or [[nutrition]]al reasons. Flexitarians may eat meat and/or other animal products sometimes. For example, a flexitarian might make only vegetarian dishes at home, but eat dishes including [[meat]] or [[fish]] at the home of family or friends.  There is a wide range in the circumstances and outer boundaries of their dietary practices, which resist easy classification. The term '''semi-vegetarianism''' is sometimes also used to convey roughly the same meaning as flexitarianism.

In [[2003]], the [[American Dialect Society]] voted ''flexitarian'' as the year's most useful word and defined it as "a vegetarian who occasionally eats meat". Use of the word “flexitarian” has become wide spread, showing up in newspaper articles and “almost vegetarian” blogs.

It should be noted that while the term itself is useful, it encompasses a very broad range of possibilities.  Therefore, there is a basis for caution in terms of what type of flexibility is expected of any individual who identifies with it.

==Origin of term==
The earliest known use of the term "flexitarian" occurred in the [[October 17]], [[1992]], issue of the ''Austin American-Statesman''. In this issue, reporter Linda Anthony wrote an article titled, "Acorn serves up 'flexitarian fare'". The article discussed the recent opening of the new Acorn Café and stated that owner Helga Morath calls her fare "flexitarian".

== Popularity ==
There has been a recent spike in the popularity of flexitarianism in Western countries particularly the Eastern United States. States such as New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts have all seen a rise in flexitarianism especially among children and teens aged 10-15. Many of these children declare themselves flexitarians although they do not put any actual limitations on the amount of meat or meat-related products they consume.


Most recently, the term flexitarian  refers to a diet plan which dictates eating meatless dishes Monday through Friday afternoon.  Thus, flexitarians eat diets high in grains, cooked and raw vegetables, and fish from Monday morning to Friday afternoon.  Starting Friday night through Sunday night, flexitarians can eat whatever they want especially meats.  Nutritionists tout this as exactly the type of diet most people should be on.  This diet plan is especially popular in San Francisco Bay area, as well as Northern New Jersey.

==See also==
* [[Pollotarianism]]
* [[Pescetarianism]]

==External links==
* [http://vegetarian.about.com/od/glossary/g/Flexitarian.htm Why flexitarian?]
* [http://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=52501 Can You Be a Vegetarian and Still Eat Meat?]

[[Category:Semi-vegetarianism]]
[[es:Flexitarianismo]]
[[fr:Flexitarisme]]
[[pl:Fleksitarianizm]]
[[pl:Semiwegetarianizm]]

{{food-stub}}