==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈflɪŋ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-fling.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{a|US|also}} {{IPA|/ˈfliːŋ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪŋ|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From Old Norse {{m|non|flengja}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act of [[throw]]ing, often violently.
# An act of moving the limbs or body with violent movements, especially in a dance.
#: ''the '''fling''' of a horse''
# An act or period of unrestrained indulgence.
#* D. Jerrold
#*: When I was as young as you, I had my '''fling'''. I led a life of pleasure.
# A [[short]], often [[sexual]], [[relationship]].
#: ''I had a '''fling''' with a girl I met on holiday.''
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} An attempt, a try (as in ''"give it a fling"'').
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A severe or contemptuous remark; an expression of sarcastic scorn; a gibe; a sarcasm.
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: I, who love to have a '''fling''', / Both at senate house and king.
# A kind of [[dance]].
#: ''the Highland '''fling'''''
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A trifing matter; an object of contempt.
#* Old proverb
#*: England were but a '''fling''' / Save for the crooked stick and the grey goose wing.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|hookup}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|act of throwing}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хвърляне|n}}, {{t+|bg|мятане|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|heitto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of unrestrained indulgence}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|веселие|n}}, {{t+|bg|развлечение|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|short sexual relationship}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|флирт|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|slippertje|n}}, {{t+|nl|avontuurtje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pikasuhde}}, {{t+|fi|säätö}}, {{t|fi|hoito}}
* French: {{t+|fr|aventure|f}}, {{t+|fr|passade|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Affäre|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|סטוץ|m|tr=stutz}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|eventyr|n}}, {{t+|nb|affære|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caso|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aventura|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fläng|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|flings|flinging|flung}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[throw]] with [[violence]] or quick movement; to [[hurl]].
#* Dryden
#*: 'Tis Fate that '''flings''' the dice: and, as she flings, / Of kings makes peasants, and of peasants kings.
#* Addison
#*: I know thy generous temper well. / '''Fling''' but the appearance of dishonour on it, / It straight takes fire.
#* '''2011''', Tom Fordyce, ''Rugby World Cup 2011: England 12-19 France'' [http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_union/15210221.stm]
#*: Wilkinson was struggling, sending the re-start straight into touch and '''flinging''' a pass the same way, and France then went close to the first try of the contest as Clerc took a long pass out on the left and was just bundled into touch by the corner flag.
# {{context|intransitive|archaic|lang=en}} To throw oneself in a violent or hasty manner; to rush or spring with violence or haste.
#* Milton
#*: And crop-full, out of doors he '''flings'''.
#* Elizabeth Browning
#*: I '''flung''' closer to his breast, / As sword that, after battle, '''flings''' to sheath.
# {{context|intransitive|archaic|lang=en}} To throw; to wince; to flounce.
#* Helen Crocket, ''The Ettrick Shepherd's Last Tale''
#*: The horse '''flung''' most potently, making his heels fly aloft in the air.
# {{context|intransitive|archaic|lang=en}} To utter abusive language; to sneer.
#: ''The scold began to flout and '''fling'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to fling}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|صَبَّ}}, {{t|ar|رَمَّى}}, {{t+|ar|اِنْدَفَعَ}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|շպրտել}}, {{t|hy|նետել}}, {{t|hy|գցել}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|хвърлям|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|запращам|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|拋|抛|pāo}}, {{t+|cmn|投|tr=tóu|sc=Hani}}, {{zh-tsp|鑄|铸|zhù}}, {{t+|cmn|扔|tr=rēng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|mrštit}}, {{t+|cs|hodit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|smijten}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|slançâ}}
* German: {{t+|de|schleudern}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|banting}}, [[banting|membanting]]
* Italian: {{t|it|slanciare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|投げる|tr=[[なげる]], nageru}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arremessar}}, {{t+|pt|lançar}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|chuqay}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|arunca}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|броса́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|бро́сить|pf}}, {{t+|ru|кида́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|ки́нуть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|мета́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|метну́ть|pf}}, {{t+|ru|швыря́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|швырну́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aventar}}, {{t+|es|lanzar}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|slansar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[bg:fling]]
[[cs:fling]]
[[et:fling]]
[[el:fling]]
[[fr:fling]]
[[ko:fling]]
[[hy:fling]]
[[io:fling]]
[[it:fling]]
[[kn:fling]]
[[ku:fling]]
[[li:fling]]
[[hu:fling]]
[[mg:fling]]
[[ml:fling]]
[[my:fling]]
[[pl:fling]]
[[ru:fling]]
[[fi:fling]]
[[tl:fling]]
[[ta:fling]]
[[te:fling]]
[[tr:fling]]
[[uk:fling]]
[[vi:fling]]
[[zh:fling]]