{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/fləʊt/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/floʊt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-float.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|əʊt}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|floten|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|flotian||to float|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|flutōnan|to float|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|pleud-||plew-||plōw-|to float, swim, fly|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|gml|-}} {{term|vloten|lang=gml}}, {{term|vlotten||to float, swim|lang=gml}}, Middle Dutch {{term|vloten|lang=dum}}, Old Norse {{term|flota|lang=non}}, Icelandic {{term|fljóta|lang=is}}, {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|fleotan|flēotan|to float, swim|lang=ang}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[buoyant]] device used to support something in water or another liquid.
#: ''Attach the '''float''' and the weight to the fishing line, above the hook.''
# A tool similar to a [[rasp]], used in various trades
# A sort of [[trowel]] used for finishing [[concrete]] surfaces.
#: ''When pouring a new driveway, you can use a two-by-four as a '''float'''.''
# An elaborately decorated trailer or vehicle, intended for display in a [[parade]] or [[pageant]].
#: ''That '''float''' covered in roses is very pretty.''
# {{British}} A small battery-powered vehicle used for local deliveries, especially in the term [[milk float]].
# {{finance}} Funds committed to be paid but not yet paid.
#: ''Our bank does a nightly sweep of accounts, to adjust the '''float''' so we stay within our reserves limit.''
# {{context|finance|Australia|and other Commonwealth countries?}} An offering of [[share]]s in a [[company]] (or [[unit]]s in a [[trust]]) to members of the public, normally followed by a listing on a [[stock exchange]].
#: '''2006''', ''You don't actually need a broker to buy shares in a '''float''' when a company is about to be listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.'' &mdash; [[w:Australian Securities and Investments Commission|Australian Securities and Investments Commission]] financial tips article, ''Buying shares in a float'' [http://www.fido.asic.gov.au/fido/fido.nsf/print/Buying+shares+in+a+float?opendocument]
# {{banking}} The total amount of checks/cheques or other drafts written against a bank account but not yet cleared and charged against the account.
#: ''No sir, your current '''float''' is not taken into account, when assets are legally garnished.''
# {{context|insurance}} Premiums taken in but not yet paid out.
#: ''We make a lot of interest from our nightly '''float'''.''
# {{programming}} Short form of [[floating-point number]].
#: ''That routine should not have used an int; it should be a '''float'''.''
# A [[soft]] beverage with a [[scoop]] of vanilla [[ice-cream]] floating in it.
#: ''It's true - I don't consider anything other than root-beer with vanilla ice-cream to be a "real" '''float'''.''
# A small sum of money put in a [[cashier]]'s [[till]] at the start of business to enable [[change]] to be made.
# {{poker}} A maneuver where a player calls on the [[flop]] or [[turn]] with a weak hand, with the intention of [[bluff#Verb|bluffing]] after the next [[community card]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Shares offered to the public:}}  [[initial public offering]]

====Derived terms====
* [[floatplane]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|buoyant device used to support something in liquid}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|plovak|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vlot|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koho}}
* German: {{t+|de|Floß|n}}, {{t+|de|Schwimmer|m}} (as in a carburetor)
* Greek: {{t+|el|φελλός|f|tr=fellós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[浮き]] (uki), [[浮揚物]] (fuyoubutsu)
* Lithuanian: [[plaustas]] {{m}} ''raft'', [[plūdė]] {{f}} ''of an angle or a net''
* Norwegian: {{t|no|dupp|m}} (angling float)
* Romanian: {{t|ro|plută|f}}, {{t|ro|plutitor|n}}
* Russian: [[плот]] (plot) {{m}} ''raft'', [[поплавок]] (poplavók) {{m}} ''of an angle or a net''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sort of trowel}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мастерок|m|tr=mast'erók}}, {{t+|ru|гладилка|f|tr=gladílka}}, {{t+|ru|правило|m|tr=pravílo}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trailer in parade}}
* German: {{t+|de|Festwagen|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|платформа|f|tr=platfórma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|carroza|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|funds committed to be paid but not yet paid}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|banking: total amount of checks/cheques or other drafts written against a bank}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|insurance: premiums taken in but not yet paid out}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|programming: short form of floating-point number}}
* Dutch: [[vlottende kommagetal]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|liukuluku}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|Float|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|soft beverage with a scoop of vanilla ice-cream floating in it}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} Of an object or substance, to be supported by a liquid of greater density than the object so as that part of the object or substance remains above the surface.
#: ''The boat '''floated''' on the water.''
#: ''The oil '''floated''' on the vinegar.''
# {{transitive}} To cause something to be suspended in a liquid of greater density; as, to float a boat.
# {{intransitive}} To be capable of floating.
#: ''That boat doesn’t '''float'''.''
#: ''Oil '''floats''' on vinegar.''
# {{intransitive}} To move in a particular direction with the liquid in which one is floating
#: ''I’d love to just '''float''' downstream.''
# {{intransitive}} To drift or wander aimlessly.
#: ''I’m not sure where they went... they’re '''floating''' around here somewhere.''
#: ''Images from my childhood '''floated''' through my mind.''
# {{intransitive}} To drift gently through the air.
#: ''The balloon '''floated''' off into the distance.''
# {{intransitive}} To move in a fluid manner.
#: ''The dancer '''floated''' gracefully around the stage.''
# {{intransitive}} {{colloquial}} (of an idea or scheme) To be viable.
#: ''That’s a daft idea... it’ll never '''float'''.''
# {{transitive}} To propose (an idea) for consideration.
#: ''I '''floated''' the idea of free ice-cream on Fridays, but no one was interested.''
# {{intransitive}} To automatically adjust a parameter as related parameters change.
# {{intransitive|finance}} (of currencies) To have an exchange value determined by the markets as opposed to by rule.
#: ''The yen '''floats''' against the dollar.''
# {{transitive|finance}} To allow (the exchange value of a currency) to be determined by the markets.
#: ''The government '''floated''' the pound in January.''
#: ''Increased pressure on Thailand’s currency, the baht, in 1997 led to a crisis that forced the government to '''float''' the currency.''
# {{transitive}} {{colloquial}} To extend a short-term loan to.
#: ''Could you '''float''' me $50 until payday?''
# {{transitive|finance|Australia|British|and other Commonwealth countries?}} To issue or sell [[share]]s in a [[company]] (or [[unit]]s in a [[trust]]) to members of the public, followed by [[listing]] on a [[stock exchange]].
#: '''2005''', ''He '''floated''' the company on the Milan Stock Exchange last December and sold 29 per cent of its shares, mostly to American investors.'' &mdash; article by Dewi Cooke, ''{{w|The Age}}'' newspaper, 21 June 2005 (about Mario Moretti Polegato) [http://www.theage.com.au/news/business/shoemaker-strides-for-world-domination/2005/06/20/1119250927926.html?from=moreStories]
# {{transitive}} To use a float (tool).
#: ''It is time to float this horse's teeth.''
# {{poker}} To perform a [[float#Noun|float]].

====Derived terms====
* [[float someone's boat]]
* [[whatever floats your boat]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|be supported by a liquid}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يطفو}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|flotar}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|plavat}}, {{t|cs|plout}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|drijven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kellua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
* Galician: {{t-|gl|flotar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|treiben}}, {{t+|de|schwimmen}}, {{t+|de|schweben}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lebeg}}, {{t+|hu|úszik}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|galleggiare}}
* Japanese: [[浮かぶ]] (ukabu), [[浮く]] (uku), [[漂う]] (tadayou)
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|អន្ដែត|tr=on-dait|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Latin: {{t|la|fluctuo}}
* Lithuanian: [[plūduriuoti]] {{impf}}; [[plaukti]] {{impf}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|boiar}}, {{t|pt|flutuar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|pluti}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|flottar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: [[плавать]] (plávat') {{impf}}; [[всплывать]] (vsplyvát') {{pf.}}, [[всплыть]] (vsplyt') {{impf}} ''to reach the surface''
* Spanish: {{t+|es|flotar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|flyta}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|తేలు}} (tElu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be capable of floating}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يطفو}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|drijven}}
* Finnish: [[kellua]], [[pysyä]] [[pinta|pinnalla]]
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
* German: {{t+|de|schwimmbar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lebeg}}, {{t+|hu|úszik}}
* Japanese: [[浮かぶ]] (ukabu), [[浮く]] (uku)
* Lithuanian: [[plūduriuoti]] {{impf}}; [[plaukti]] {{impf}}
* Russian: [[держаться на воде]] (d'eržát's'a na vod'é)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|flotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|drift gently through the air}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|leijua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
* German: {{t+|de|gleiten}}, {{t+|de|schweben}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lebeg}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[飛ぶ]] (tobu), [[浮遊する]] (fuyūsuru), [[浮く]] (uku)
* Russian: [[парить]] (parít') {{impf}}, [[плыть]] (plyt') {{impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|flotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move in a particular direction with the liquid in which one is floating}}
* Dutch: [[meedrijven]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lipua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
* German: {{t+|de|treiben}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: [[plaukti]] {{impf}}
* Russian: [[плыть]] (plyt') {{impf}}, [[дрейфовать]] (dr'ejfovát') {{impf}} ''of a ship''
* Spanish: {{t+|es|flotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move in a fluid manner}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vloeien}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lipua}}, {{t+|fi|leijua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|gleiten}}, {{t+|de|schweben}}
* Lithuanian: [[tekėti]] {{impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|flotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|automatically adjust a parameter as related parameters change}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vloeien}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|allow a price to be determined by the markets as opposed to by rule}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kellua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|flotter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[超える]] (koeru)
{{trans-bottom}}

'''cause to be suspended'''

{{trans-top|propose for consideration}}
* Dutch: [[te water laten]], [[voorstellen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ehdottaa}}, {{t+|fi|heittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|begeben}}
* Japanese: [[浮かぶ]] (ukabu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extend a short-term loan to}}
* German: {{t+|de|borgen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[flotacar]]
* {{ttbc|mn}}: [[хөвөх]] (hövöh)

===Anagrams===
* [[aloft]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:en:Liquids]]

[[ar:float]]
[[cy:float]]
[[de:float]]
[[et:float]]
[[es:float]]
[[fa:float]]
[[fr:float]]
[[ko:float]]
[[hr:float]]
[[io:float]]
[[it:float]]
[[kn:float]]
[[ku:float]]
[[lo:float]]
[[lt:float]]
[[li:float]]
[[hu:float]]
[[mg:float]]
[[ml:float]]
[[my:float]]
[[nl:float]]
[[pl:float]]
[[ru:float]]
[[simple:float]]
[[fi:float]]
[[sv:float]]
[[tl:float]]
[[ta:float]]
[[te:float]]
[[th:float]]
[[tr:float]]
[[vi:float]]
[[zh:float]]