{{wikipedia}}
{{also|For|FOR|för|før|fór|fôr|fòr}}
==English==
{{rank|with|is|it|14|for|as|had|you}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}}
** {{a|UK}} {{enPR|fôr}}, {{IPA|/fɔː(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/fO@(\r)/}}
** {{a|US}} {{enPR|fôr}}, {{IPA|/fɔɹ/|/foʊɹ/}}, {{SAMPA|/fOr\/}}
** {{audio|en-us-for.ogg|Audio (US)}}
** {{rhymes|ɔː(r)}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/fə(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/f@(\r)/}}
** {{a|US}} {{IPA|/fɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/f@`/}}
** {{audio|en-us-for-unstressed.ogg|Audio (US), unstressed, in the phrase "Wait for me".}}
* {{homophones|fore|four}}

===Conjunction===
{{en-conj}}

# [[because]]
#: ''He lost his job, '''for''' he got into trouble.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|because}}
* Albanian: [[për]]
* Armenian: [[որովհետև]] (vorovhetev)
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|защото|tr=zashtoto}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[per]]
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[awos]], [[drefenn]], [[rag]] ''(all three used interchangeably, followed by either [[dhe]]+verbal noun or verbal noun alone)''; [[a-ban]], [[pan]] ''(also meaning "since", without above conditions)''
* Czech: {{t+|cs|neboť}}
* Danish: [[#Danish|for]], [[fordi]], [[thi]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|want}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ĉar|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koska}}
* French: {{t+|fr|parce que}}, {{t+|fr|car}}
* German: {{t+|de|denn}}, {{t+|de|wegen}},  {{t+|de|weil}}
* Greek: [[διότι]] (ðióti), [[επειδή]] (epiðí), [[γιατί]] (yatí)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|כי|alt=כִּי|tr=ki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|perché}}, {{t+|it|poiché}}
* Japanese: ～[[ため]] (~tame) ('''Note''': after a noun, a [[の]] ''no'' is added before the "tame".)
* Korean: {{t|ko|~때문에}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|nam}},  {{t+|la|quod}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|for}}, {{t+|no|fordi}}
* [[Novial]]: [[pro]], [[den]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[برای]]}} (barâye), {{fa-Arab|[[برای اینکه]]}} (barâye inke)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|porque}}
* Romanian: [[pentru că]]
* Russian: [[потому что]] (potomú čto), [[из-за того, что]] (iz-za tovó, što)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|oir|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|porque}}, {{t+|es|pues}}, {{t+|es|como}}
* Swedish: [[eftersom]], [[emedan]] (''archaic'')
* Thai: {{Thai|[[เพื่อ]]}} (pêua)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|için}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# [[towards|Towards]].
#: ''The astronauts headed '''for''' the moon.''
# Directed at, intended to belong to.
#: ''I have something '''for''' you.''
# Supporting (opposite of ''against'').
#: ''All those '''for''' the motion raise your hands.''
# Because of.
#: ''He wouldn't apologize; and just '''for''' that, she refused to help him.''
#: {{UK|_|usage}} ''He looks better '''for''' having lost weight.''
# Over a period of time.
#: ''They fought '''for''' days over a silly pencil.''
# On behalf of.
#: ''I will stand in '''for''' him.''
# To [[obtain]].
#: ''I am aiming '''for''' completion by end of business Thursday.''
#: ''He's going '''for'' his doctorate.''
#: ''Do you want to go '''for''' coffee?''
#: ''People all over Greece looked to Delphi '''for''' answers.''
#: ''Can you go to the store '''for''' some eggs?''
#: ''I'm saving up ''for''' a car.''
#: ''Don't wait '''for''' an answer.''
#: ''What did he ask you '''for'''?''
# In the [[direction]] of: {{non-gloss definition|marks a [[point]] one is going toward.}}
#: ''Run [[for]] the hills!''
#: ''He was headed '''for''' the door when he remembered.''
# [[despite|Despite]], [[in spite of]].
#* '''1892''' August 6, [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], "The Unbidden Guest", in ''All the Year Round'',<sup >[http://books.google.com/books?id=XNwRAAAAYAAJ ]</sup> [http://books.google.com/books?id=XNwRAAAAYAAJ&amp;pg=PA133&amp;dq=%22but+for%22 page 133],
#*: Mr. Joseph Blenkinshaw was perhaps not worth quite so much as was reported; but '''for''' all that he was a very wealthy man {{...}}
# {{non-gloss definition|Used to introduce a small clause.}}
#: '''''For''' that to happen now is incredibly unlikely.'' (=''It is incredibly unlikely that that will happen now.'')
#: ''All I want is '''for''' you to be happy.'' (=''All I want is that you be happy.'')
# ''Used to construe various verbs.''{{attention|en|needs to be split by meaning}}
#: ''He was convicted '''for''' murder.''
#: ''I'm looking '''for''' my friend.''

====Antonyms====
* [[against]]

====Derived terms====
* [[for it]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|towards}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[per]], [[per a]]
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[troha]], [[war-tu]] [[ha]], [[dhe]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|k}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|til}}, {{t-|da|mod}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|naar}}
* Finnish: [[kohti]], [[-n]] ([[illative]] case)
* French: {{t+|fr|vers}}
* German: {{t+|de|zu}}, {{t+|de|nach}}
* Greek: [[για]] (yá), [[γι']] (y') (when before words beginning with a consonant)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ל־|alt=לְ־|tr=l'-}}, {{t-|he|בכיוון|tr=b'kiv&uacute;n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[por]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|per}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|ad}}
* Maltese: [[għal]], [[għal-]], [[għall-]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|mot}},  {{t+|no|for}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[per]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dla}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|para}}
* Russian: [[к#Russian|к]] (k), [[на#Russian|на]] (na)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|a}}, {{t+|es|hacia}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mot}}, {{t+|sv|åt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|directed at, intended to belong to}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|համար|tr=hamar}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[per]], [[per a]]
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[rag]], [[dhe]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pro}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|til}}, {{t-|da|mod}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voor}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|por|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[-lle]] ([[allative]] case)
* French: {{t+|fr|pour}}
* German: {{t+|de|für}}
* Greek: [[για]] (yá)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ל־|alt=לְ־|tr=l'-}}, {{t+|he|בשביל|alt=בִּשְׁבִיל|tr=bishv&iacute;l}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t-|hu|-nak}}, {{t-|hu|-nek}} (''[[dative]]'')
* [[Interlingua]]: [[por]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|per}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|għal|xs=Maltese}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|til}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dla}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|para}}
* Russian: [[для]] (dlja)
* [[Saterland Frisian]]: [[foar]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|para}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|för}}, {{t+|sv|åt}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|foar|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|supporting}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[per]]
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[rag]]
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pro}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|for}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|voor}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|por|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puoli|alt=puolesta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pour}}
* German: {{t+|de|für}}
* Greek: [[γιατί]] (yatí), [[διότι]] (ðióti), [[επειδή]] (epiðí)
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|בשביל|tr=bishv&iacute;l}}, {{t-|he|בעד|tr=b'&aacute;d}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|-ért}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[por]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|for}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|por}}
* Russian: [[за#Russian|за]] (za)
* [[Saterland Frisian]]: [[foar]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|por}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|för}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|foar|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|because of}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pro}}, {{t+|cs|za}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|for}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|pro|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: [[takia]], [[-sta]] ([[elative]] case)
* French: {{t+|fr|par}}
* German: {{t+|de|wegen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|για}}, {{t+|el|λόγω}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|בגלל|tr=bigl&aacute;l}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|miatt}},  {{t+|hu|-ért}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[pro]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|per}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|pro}}, {{t-|la|propter}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|dėl|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Maltese: [[għal]], [[minħabba]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|for}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|za}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|por}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|por}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|för}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[ehe]] (t-)
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[por]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[untuk]], [[buat]], [[bagi]], [[demi]]
* {{ttbc|Novial}}: [[por]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[pentru]]
* {{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[esé]] (t-), [[supé]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|for}}
* [[fro#English|fro]], [['fro#English|'fro]]
* [[ORF#English|ORF]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

----

==Danish==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|da|conjunction}}

# [[#English|for]], [[because]]

===Preposition===
{{infl|da|preposition}}

# [[#English|for]]

===Verb===
{{infl|da|verb form}}

# [[went]] (''past tense of [[fare]], in the sense of [[go]], [[travel]]'')

----

==Esperanto==

===Adverb===
{{infl|eo|adverb}}

# [[away]], [[far]], [[gone]]
#* '''1998''', Henrik Ibsen, trans. Odd Tangerud ''Puphejmo : Dramo en tri aktoj'', [http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/19030]
#*: NORA (komencas elpreni el la skatolo, sed baldaŭ '''for'''ĵetas ĉion). Ho, se mi kuraĝus eliri. Se nur neniu venus. Se nur ne dume okazus io hejme. Stulta babilaĵo; neniu venos. Nur ne pensi. Brosi la mufon. Delikataj gantoj, delikataj gantoj. '''For''' el la pensoj! '''For, for!''' Unu, du, tri, kvar, kvin, ses — (krias) Jen, tie ili venas —
#*:: NORA (begins to unpack the box, but soon pushes it all '''away'''). Oh, if I dared go out. If only no one would come. If only I could be sure nothing would happen here in the meantime. Stupid nonsense; no one will come. Only I mustn't think about it. I will brush my muff. What lovely, lovely gloves. '''Out''' of my thoughts, '''Away, away!''' One, two, three, four, five, six— (Screams) There, someone's coming—

===Particle===
{{infl|eo|particle}}

# [[distant]] (particle of distance)
#: ''for'' combines with demonstrative [[:Category:Esperanto correlatives|correlatives]] to indicate that the referrent is somehow distant from the speaker:
#:* ''[[tiu]] '''for''''': "that [distant] [one/person]"
#:* ''[[tio]] '''for''''': "that [distant] [thing]"
#:* ''[[tia]] '''for''''': "that [anomolous] kind of"
#:* ''[[ties]] '''for''''': "belonging to those [distant] people"
#:* ''[[tiel]] '''for''''': "that [extreme] manner or degree"
#:* ''[[tie]] '''for''''': "over there"
#:* ''[[tiam]] '''for''''': "then [long ago or in the distant future]"
#:* ''[[tiom]] '''for''''': "that much [of an extreme quantity]"
#:* ''[[tial]] '''for''''': "for that [unusual] reason"

====Antonyms====
* [[ĉi]]: [[this]], [[here]] ''(particle of proximity)''

{{eo BRO|1}}

----

==Galician==

===Etymology 1===
Inflected form of {{term|ir||to go|lang=gl}}.

====Verb====
{{gl-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|[[ir#Galician|ir]]||1|s|fut|sub}}
# {{conjugation of|[[ir#Galician|ir]]||3|s|fut|sub}}

===Etymology 2===
Inflected form of {{term|ser||to be|lang=gl}}.

====Verb====
{{gl-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|[[ser#Galician|ser]]||1|s|fut|sub}}
# {{conjugation of|[[ser#Galician|ser]]||3|s|fut|sub}}

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''for''' {{f}} ([[forar|for-ar]], [[forir|for-ir]])

# [[mud]]
# a [[bog]]

====Derived terms====
* [[forarpittur]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==[[Ido]]==

===Preposition===
{{infl|io|preposition}}

# [[far]] from

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb|for|for|fari|fārī|fatum sum|fātum sum|fatum|fātum}}

# I [[speak]], I [[talk]], I say

====Inflection====
{{la-conj-1st-depon|f|fat|22=hortat}} 

====Synonyms====
* [[dico|dicō]]

====Derived terms====
* [[affor]]
* [[fabulor]]
* [[fatum]]
* [[infans]]
* [[interfor]]
{{attention|la|please expand}}

[[Category:Latin deponent verbs]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|No-for.ogg|Audio}}

===Conjunction===
{{infl|no|conjunction}}

# [[#Conjunction 1|for]]

====Synonyms====
* [[fordi]]

===Preposition===
{{infl|no|preposition}}

# [[#Preposition 1|for]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{proto|Germanic|fora|lang=ang}}

====Preposition====
{{infl|ang|preposition}}

# [[#English|for]]

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang|-}}, from 1st & 3rd person singular preterite of ''[[faran]]'' "to travel, go"

====Verb====
{{infl|ang|verb|head=fōr}}

# 1st and 3rd person singular preterite of ''[[faran]]''

====Noun====
{{infl|ang|noun|head=fōr|g=f}}

# [[journey]], [[going]], [[course]], [[expedition]], [[approach]]; [[passage]], [[lifestyle]], way of life

=====Declension=====
{{ang-decl-noun|fōr|fōra|fōre|fōra|fōre|fōra|fōre|fōrum}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|ang|-}}

====Noun====
{{infl|ang|noun|head=fōr|g=m}}

# [[hog]], [[pig]]

=====Declension=====
{{ang-decl-noun|fōr|fōras|fōr|fōras|fōres|fōra|fōre|fōrum}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Verb===
{{infl|pt|verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|[[ir#Portuguese|ir]]||1|s|fut|sub}}
# {{conjugation of|[[ir#Portuguese|ir]]||3|s|fut|sub}}

----

==Swedish==

===Verb===
{{infl|sv|verb form}}

# Past tense of '''[[fara#Swedish|fara]]'''.

[[ar:for]]
[[da:for]]
[[de:for]]
[[et:for]]
[[el:for]]
[[es:for]]
[[fa:for]]
[[fr:for]]
[[gl:for]]
[[ko:for]]
[[hr:for]]
[[io:for]]
[[it:for]]
[[kk:for]]
[[ku:for]]
[[lo:for]]
[[la:for]]
[[li:for]]
[[hu:for]]
[[ml:for]]
[[nl:for]]
[[ja:for]]
[[no:for]]
[[pl:for]]
[[pt:for]]
[[ru:for]]
[[simple:for]]
[[fi:for]]
[[sv:for]]
[[ta:for]]
[[te:for]]
[[th:for]]
[[tr:for]]
[[uk:for]]
[[vi:for]]
[[wo:for]]
[[zh:for]]