==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[for ever]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/fəɹˈɛvə/}}, {{SAMPA|/f@r"Ev@/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/fəɹˈɛvɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/f@r"Ev@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-forever.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛvə(r)}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# for all [[time]], for all [[eternity]]; for an [[infinite]] amount of time.
#: ''I shall love you '''forever'''.
# (''colloquially'') for a very [[long]] time, 'an' eternity.
#: ''We had to wait '''forever''' to get inside.
# (''colloquially'') for an excessively long time.
#: ''It took her '''forever''' to get dressed and ready for the party.''
#: ''The drive to his mothers' house took '''forever'''.
# at all times, anytime, [[allways]]
#: ''You'll have a home here forever, my son!
# (''colloquially'') [[constantly]] or [[frequently]].
#: ''You are '''forever''' nagging me.
# (''colloquially'') a mythical time in the infinite future that will never come.
#: ''Sure, I'd be happy to meet with you on the 12th of '''forever'''.
#: ''If I have to wait while you finish that project, then I'll be here '''forever'''.

====Usage notes====
* In the United Kingdom and Commonwealth, ''[[for ever]]'' is the standard spelling for the infinite sense), whilst ''for ever'' and ''forever'' are both standard for senses 'a long time'. In the United States and Canada, generally only ''forever'' is used, regardless of sense.

====Synonyms====
* [[evermore]]
* [[forevermore]]
* [[for ever more]]
* [[incessantly]]
* [[continual]]ly
* [[eternal]]ly
* [[always]]
* [[until Kingdom come]]

====Derived terms====
* [[foreverness]]

====Related terms====
* [[everlasting]]
* [[every]]
* [[everyday]]
* [[never]]
* [[nevermore]]
* [[whatever]]
* [[whenever]]
* [[whoever]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|for all time, for all eternity; for an infinite amount of time}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|navždy}}
* Dutch: [[eeuwig]], (voor) [[altijd]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ikuisesti}}
* German: {{t-|de|für immer}}, {{t+|de|ewig}}, {{t+|de|unaufhörlich}}, {{t+|de|auf}} {{t+|de|immer}},  {{t|de|für eger}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|örökre}},  {{t|hu|örökké}},  {{t|hu|mindörökké}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|go bráth|xs=Irish}}, {{t-|ga|go deo|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{t|km|រហូត|tr=rahoat|sc=Khmr|xs=Khmer}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|hoolʼáágóó}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|na zawsze}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вечно|tr=v'éčno}}, {{t+|ru|всегда|tr=vs'egdá}}, {{t+|ru|навсегда|tr=navs'egdá}}, {{t|ru|навеки|tr=v'éki}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|milele|xs=Swahili}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t|fy|ivich|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(colloquially)'' for a very long time}}
* Dutch: een [[eeuwigheid]], [[eeuwen]], [[tijden]] {{p}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ikuisuus|alt=ikuisuuden}}
* German: {{t+|de|ewig}}, {{t-|de|für immer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|целую вечность|tr=céluju v'éčnost'}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|milele|xs=Swahili}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t|fy|ivich|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(colloquially)'' for an excessively long time}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|eeuwig}}, {{t-|nl|eindeloos}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ikuisuus|alt=ikuisuuden}}
* German: {{t+|de|ewig}}, {{t-|de|für immer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|целую вечность|tr=céluju v'éčnost'}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|milele|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|at all times, anytime, allways}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|steeds}}, {{t+|nl|altijd}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(colloquially)'' constantly or frequently}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|steed}}, {{t+|nl|altijd}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aina}}
* German: {{t+|de|ewig}}, {{t+|de|ständig}}, {{t+|de|unaufhörlich}}, {{t+|de|andauernd}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|örökké}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вечно|tr=v'éčno}}, {{t|ru|постоянно|cs=Cyrl|tr=postojánno}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|milele|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''(colloquially)'' a mythical time in the infinite future that will never come}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|milele|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[éternellement]], [[toujours]]
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: {{he-translation|לעד|la'ad}}, {{he-translation|לנצח|laneitzach}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ずっと]] (zutto); [[永遠]] (eien)
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: 영원히 /jɜŋwənhiː/
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Nauruan}}: [[eko dokin]]
* {{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[gu bràth]], [[gu sìorraidh]], [[gu suthain]], [[gu suthain sìorraidh]], [[a-chaoidh]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[por siempre]], [[para siempre]]
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: (för) [[alltid]], (för) [[evigt]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

[[Category:Time]]

[[et:forever]]
[[es:forever]]
[[fa:forever]]
[[fr:forever]]
[[ko:forever]]
[[hy:forever]]
[[io:forever]]
[[it:forever]]
[[kk:forever]]
[[sw:forever]]
[[ku:forever]]
[[hu:forever]]
[[ja:forever]]
[[pl:forever]]
[[ru:forever]]
[[fi:forever]]
[[ta:forever]]
[[vi:forever]]
[[zh:forever]]