==English==

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*bʰerǵʰ-}}
Borrowed from {{bor|en|fro|-}}, from {{der|en|la|fortitūdō||bravery, strength}}, from {{m|la|fortis||brave, strong}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/ˈfɔːtɪtjuːd/}}
* {{hyphenation|en|for|ti|tude}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# [[mental|Mental]] or [[emotional]] [[strength]] that [[enable]]s [[courage]] in the face of [[adversity]].
#* '''1612''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''King Henry VIII'', act 3, scene 2:
#*: . . . I am able now, methinks,
#*: Out of a '''fortitude''' of soul I feel,
#*: To endure more miseries.
#* {{circa|1794}} [[w:Jane Austen|Jane Austen]], ''[[w:Lady Susan|Lady Susan]]'', chapter 1:
#*: I shall soon have need for all my '''fortitude''', as I am on the point of separation from my own daughter.
#* '''1906''', [[w:Joseph Conrad|Joseph Conrad]], ''The Mirror of the Sea'', chapter 21:
#*: She may be saved by your efforts, by your resource and '''fortitude''' bearing up against the heavy weight of guilt and failure.
#* '''2012 ''' Jan. 30, [[w:Fareed Zakaria|Fareed Zakaria]], "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2104842,00.html The Strategist]," ''Time'':
#*: Mitt Romney . . . charges that Obama is an appeaser who apologizes for America, lacks '''fortitude''' and is "tentative, indecisive, timid and nuanced."
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2012|author=Andrew Martin|title=Underground Overground: A passenger's history of the Tube|publisher=Profile Books, {{ISBN|978-1846684777}}|page=267|text=The proper fans might also expend time - about twenty hours - trying to visit every Tube station as quickly as possible. [...] But to visit every station in ''record time'' - which people have been attempting since at least 1960 - requires real '''fortitude'''. You must get up before dawn, you must drink or eat almost nothing, so niggardly is the [[Underground]] with toilet provision.}}
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[physical|Physical]] strength.
#* '''1604''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Othello'', act 1, scene 3:
#*: DUKE OF VENICE: The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for
#*: Cyprus. Othello, the '''fortitude''' of the place is best
#*: known to you.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|mental or emotional strength}} {{l|en|inner strength}}, {{l|en|moxie}}, {{l|en|resolve}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|forte}}
* {{l|en|fortify}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mental or emotional strength}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|твърдост|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|bg|сила на духа|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|刚毅|tr=gāngyì}}, {{t+|cmn|坚韧|tr=jiānrèn}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|taaiheid|f}}, {{t|nl|geesteskracht|f}}, {{t+|nl|volharding|f}}, {{t|nl|volhardendheid|f}}, {{t+|nl|vastberadenheid|f}}, {{t|nl|innerlijke kracht|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|animforto}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|mielenlujuus}}, {{t+|fi|lujuus}}, {{t|fi|luonteenlujuus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fortitude|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|fortaleza|f}}
* German: {{l|de|innere}} {{t+|de|Kraft|f}}/{{t+|de|Stärke|f}}, {{t|de|Standhaftigkeit|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σθένος|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|γενναιότητα|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|lelkierő}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ចិត្ដអត់ធ្មត់|tr=jət ɑt tmʊət|sc=Khmr}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|fortitudo}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|manawaroa}}, {{t|mi|niwha}}, {{t|mi|koromaki}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Browheit|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|hart|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|си́ла духа|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|fortaleza}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tapperhet}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|metanet}}, {{t+|tr|sebat}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{C|en|Ethics}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{root|fr|ine-pro|*bʰerǵʰ-}}
From {{inh|fr|fro|}}, borrowed from {{bor|fr|la|fortitūdō||bravery, strength}}, from {{m|la|fortis||brave, strong}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{l|en|fortitude}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|fr|fort}}
* {{l|fr|fortifier}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}