==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/"fri:z/}}
*{{IPA|/ˈfriːz/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːz|-iːz]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[frēosan]]''

====Homophones====
*[[frees]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[period]] of [[intensely]] [[cold]] [[weather]].
# {{curling}} A [[precise]] draw weight shot where a delivered stone comes to a stand-still against a stationary stone, making it nearly impossible to knock out.
# {{finance}} A [[block]] on [[pay]] [[rise]]s

====Translations====
{{trans-top|period of cold}}
*Catalan: [[glaçada]] {{f}}, [[gelada]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[mráz]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[pakkasjakso]]
*Spanish: [[helada]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}


'''curling term'''

{{trans-top|finance}}
*Finnish: [[jäädytys]], [[sulku]]
*Italian: [[blocco]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|freezes|freezing|froze|frozen}}

# {{intransitive}} To drop to a [[temperature]] below zero degrees [[celsius]], where water turns to ice.
#* It didn't '''freeze''' this winter, but last winter was very harsh.
# {{context|intransitive|informal}} To be very [[cold]].
#* It's '''freezing''' in here!
# {{intransitive}} Especially of a [[liquid]], to become [[solid]] due to low [[temperature]].
#* The pond has '''frozen''' over.
#* Vodka won't '''freeze''' in there, but beer will.
# {{transitive}} To lower something's temperature to the point that it freezes or becomes hard.
#* Don't '''freeze''' meat twice.
# {{intransitive}} To become [[motionless]].
#:* The squirrel '''froze''' when it saw the hawk overhead.

===Antonyms===
*[[unfreeze]]
*[[defrost]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-level|Translations at L4+ not in L3 POS section (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Antonyms)}}
{{trans-top|to drop below zero}}
*Dutch: [[vriezen]]
*Finnish: [[olla]] [[pakkanen|pakkasta]]
*French: [[geler]]
*German: [[frieren]]
*Italian: [[gelare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Spanish: [[helar]]
*Swedish: [[frysa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be very cold}}
*Czech: [[mrznout]]
*Finnish: [[jäätää]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become solid due to low temperature}}
*Breton: [[sonnañ]]
*Catalan: [[glaçar]], [[gelar]]
*Czech: [[zmrznout]]
*Dutch: [[bevriezen]]
*Finnish: [[jäätyä]]
*French: [[glacer]]
*German: [[gefrieren]]
*Indonesian: [[beku|membeku]], [[beku|membekukan]]
*Interlingua: [[congelar]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[凍る]] ([[こおる]], kooru), [[凍らせる]] ([[こおらせる]], kooraseru)
*Korean: [[얼다]] (eolda)
*Norwegian (Bokmål+Nynorsk): [[fryse]]
*Polish: [[zamarzać]]
*Portuguese: [[congelar]]
*Romanian: [[îngheţa]], [[congela]]
*Russian: [[замерзать]]/[[замёрзнуть]] (zam'erzát'/zam'órznut')
*Swedish: [[frysa]]
*Turkish: [[donmak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to lower something's temperature to freezing point}}
*Breton: [[skornañ]]
*Catalan: [[congelar]]
*Czech: [[zmrazit]]
*Dutch: [[bevriezen]], [[invriezen]], [[vriezen]]
*Finnish: [[jäädyttää]], [[pakastaa]]
*French: [[congeler]]
*German: [[einfrieren]]
*Indonesian: [[beku|membeku]], [[beku|membekukan]]
*Italian: [[raffreddare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[凍る]] ([[こおる]], kooru), [[凍らせる]] ([[こおらせる]], kooraseru)
*Korean: [[얼리다]] (eollida)
*Norwegian (Bokmål+Nynorsk): [[fryse]]
*Portuguese: [[congelar]]
*Russian: [[замораживать]]/[[заморозить]] (zamorážvat'/zamorózit')
*Spanish: [[helar]]
*Swedish: [[frysa]]
*Turkish: [[dondurmak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to become motionless}}
*Breton: [[chom]] a-sav krenn
*Czech: [[ztuhnout]] or [[znehybnět]]
*Dutch: [[verstijven]]
*Finnish: [[jähmettyä]]
*French: se [[figer]]
*German: [[erstarren]]
*Indonesian: [[beku|membeku]], [[beku|membekukan]]
*Italian: [[congelare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[凍る]] ([[こおる]], kooru), [[凍らせる]] ([[こおらせる]], kooraseru)
*Korean: [[얼어붙다]] (eorEobutda)
*Norwegian (Bokmål+Nynorsk): [[fryse]]
*Polish: [[zastygnąć]] w [[bezruchu]]
*Russian: [[замирать]]/[[замереть]] (zamirát'/zam'er'ét'), [[застывать]]/[[застыть]] (zastyvát'/zastýt')
*Swedish: [[frysa]]
*Turkish: [[donmak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[reviñ]], [[ober]] [[skorn]], [[skornañ]]
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[glaçar]], [[gelar]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[beku|membeku]], [[beku|membekukan]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[gelar]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[gelare]], [[ghiacciare]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[凍る]] ([[こおる]], kooru), [[凍らせる]] ([[こおらせる]], kooraseru)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[얼다]] (eolda)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}} (Bokmål+Nynorsk): [[fryse]]
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[marznąć]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[gelar]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[îngheţa]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[frysa]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[donmak]]

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# {{idiom}} Used, usually by authority figures, to command someone to stop everything they're doing and become still.

===Related terms===
*[[frost]]

===Derived terms===
*[[deep-freeze]]
*[[deep freeze]]
*[[freeze-dry]]
*[[freeze over]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[el:freeze]]
[[es:freeze]]
[[fa:freeze]]
[[fr:freeze]]
[[gl:freeze]]
[[ko:freeze]]
[[io:freeze]]
[[it:freeze]]
[[hu:freeze]]
[[ja:freeze]]
[[pl:freeze]]
[[pt:freeze]]
[[ru:freeze]]
[[simple:freeze]]
[[fi:freeze]]
[[ta:freeze]]
[[vi:freeze]]
[[tr:freeze]]
[[uk:freeze]]
[[zh:freeze]]