==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|friend|ly|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈfrɛndli/|/ˈfrɛnli/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-friendly.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{head|en|adjective|comparative|[[more]] friendly|or|friendlier|superlative|[[most]] friendly|or|friendliest}}

# Generally warm, approachable and easy to relate with in character.
#: ''Your cat seems very '''friendly'''.''
#*{{RQ:Mrxl SqrsDghtr|I}}
#*: They stayed together during three dances, went out on to the terrace, explored wherever they were permitted to explore, paid two visits to the buffet, and enjoyed themselves much in the same way as if they had been school-children surreptitiously breaking loose from an assembly of grown-ups. The boy became volubly '''friendly''' and bubbling over with unexpected humour and high spirits.
# Inviting, characteristic of friendliness.
#: ''He gave a '''friendly''' smile.''
# Having an [[easy]] relationship with something, as in user-friendly etc.
# Without any [[hostility]].
#: ''a '''friendly''' competition''
#: ''a '''friendly''' power or state''
#* {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay|Thomas Macaulay}} (1800-1859)
#*: in '''friendly''' relations with his moderate opponents
# Promoting the good of any person; favourable; propitious.
#: ''a '''friendly''' breeze or gale''
#* {{w|Joseph Addison}} (1672-1719)
#*: On the first '''friendly''' bank he throws him down.
# {{context|military|lang=en}} Of or pertaining to [[friendlies]] (''friendly'' noun sense 2, below). Also applied to other bipolar confrontations, such as team sports
#: ''The soldier was killed by '''friendly''' fire.''
#*{{quote-journal|date=1867-06-03|first=Jasper|last=Selwyn|journal=Journal of the Royal United Service Institution|volume=XI|issue=XLIV|title=[http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=qS4wAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA256&dq=%22friendly+fire%22 Further Particulars Regarding Moncrieff's Protected Barbette System]|page=256|passage=It is clear that the firing of very heavy guns, or the enemy's fire in return, would very seriously interfere with an abbatis, or anything of that kind, and it will only be something of the lightest character, or something that is placed at a considerable distance from the '''friendly''' fire, the fire of the gun itself, that would remain.}}
#*{{quote-journal|date=1910|last=P.E.T.|journal=Journal of the Military Service Institution of the United States|volume=XLVI|issue=CLXV|title=[http://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?q1=%22friendly%20fire%22;id=njp.32101049985763;view=1up;seq=550;num=552;start=1;size=10;page=search The Franco-German War]|page=552|passage=The slaughter of one's own troops by being fired into by their friends in rear. We are very much concerned over the question of avoiding loss from the enemy's bullets while passing through the danger zone, but what have we done to avoid our bravest fellows, the survival of the fittest, those who have gotten to the front and have held on to hard-won positions—what have we done to avoid their being shot to pieces by '''friendly''' fire? Absolutely nothing that we have ever heard of—and yet this is one of the most serious problems that confronts the leader of troops. Courage before the enemy will quail before a fire from the rear.}}
# {{context|number theory|lang=en}} Being or relating to two or more [[natural number]]s with a common [[abundancy]].
#: '''''friendly''' numbers;&emsp; '''friendly''' pairs;&emsp; '''friendly''' n-tuples''

====Antonyms====
* [[unfriendly]]
* [[hostile]]

====Derived terms====
* [[family friendly]]
* [[friendliness]]
* [[friendly fire]]
* [[Friendly Islands]]
* [[radio-friendly]]
* [[user-friendly]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|warm, approachable}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|miqësor}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لطيف|tr=laTiif}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|բարեկամական|sc=Armn}}, {{t+|hy|ընկերական|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приветлив|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|дружелюбен|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|amistós}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|友好|tr=yǒuhǎo|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přátelský|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|venlig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vriendelijk}}, {{t+|nl|hartelijk}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sõbralik}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ystävällinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|amical|m}}, {{t+|fr|amicale|f}}, {{t+|fr|aimable|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|gentil|m}}, {{t+|fr|gentille|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|freundlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φιλικός}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|aikāne}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|barátságos}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|vingjarnlegur}}, {{t+|is|vinalegur}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|親切|alt=親切な|tr=shinsetsu na}}, {{t|ja|友好的|alt=友好的な|tr=yūkōteki na}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|دوستانه|tr=dustâne|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przyjazny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|amigável}}, {{t|pt|amistoso}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|prietenos}}, {{t+|ro|amical|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дружелюбный|tr=druželjúbnyj}}, {{t+|ru|приветливый|tr=privétlivyj}}, {{t+|ru|любезный|tr=ljubéznyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|càirdeil}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|prijáteljski}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|amistoso}}, {{t+|es|amigable}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vänlig}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|дружній|sc=Cyrl}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|flenöfik}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|חבֿריש|tr=khaverish|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|characteristic of friendliness}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приятелски|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|amistós}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přátelský}}
* Danish: {{t|da|venlig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vriendelijk}}, {{t+|nl|sympathiek}}, {{t+|nl|aangenaam}}, {{t+|nl|vriendschappelijk}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|amika}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sõbralik}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ystävällinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|amical|m}}, {{t+|fr|amicale|f}}, {{t+|fr|aimable|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|gentil|m}}, {{t+|fr|gentille|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|freundlich}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|愛しい|tr=itoshii}}, {{t|ja|友好的|alt=友好的な|tr=yūkōteki na}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przyjazny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|amigável}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дружественный|tr=drúžestvennyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|дружеский|tr=drúžeskij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|càirdeil}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|prijateljski|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|prijáteljski}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vänlig}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|flenöfik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having an easy relationship}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ystävällinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|without hostility}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приятелски|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|amistós}}
* Danish: {{t|da|venligsindet}}, {{t|da|venskabelig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vriendschappelijk}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ystävällismielinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|親善の|tr=shinzen no}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|amistoso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дружественный|tr=drúžestvennyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|товарищеский|tr=továriščeskij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|càirdeil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pertaining to friendlies in the conflict sense}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|приятелски|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bevriend}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|allié|m}}, {{t+|fr|alliée|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|baráti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|味方|tr=mikata no|alt=味方の}}, {{t|ja|友|tr=tomo no|alt=友の}}, {{t|ja|友好的|alt=友好的な|tr=yūkōteki na}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przyjazny|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|càirdeil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# {{context|now|_|rare|lang=en}} In a friendly manner, like a friend.
#* '''1646''', {{w|Thomas Browne}}, ''Pseudodoxia Epidemica'':
#*: And we cannot doubt, our Brothers in Physick [...] will '''friendly''' accept, if not countenance our endeavours.

====Synonyms====
* [[amicably]], [[friendlily]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in a friendly manner}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ընկերաբար}}
* Danish: {{t|da|venligt}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vriendelijk}}, {{t+|nl|vriendschappelijk}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|amike}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|sõbralikult}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ystävällinen|alt=ystävällisesti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|amicalement}}, {{t+|fr|aimablement}}, {{t+|fr|gentiment}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|freundlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φιλικά}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|barátságosan}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|友好的|tr=yūkōteki ni|alt=友好的に}}, {{t|ja|気さく|tr=kisaku ni|alt=気さくに}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|amigavelmente}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|prietenește}}, {{t|ro|(în mod) prietenos}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дружелю́бно}}, {{t+|ru|приве́тливо}}, {{t+|ru|любе́зно}}, {{t+|ru|дру́жественно}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|friendlies}}

# {{context|sports|lang=en}} A [[game]] which is of no consequence in terms of ranking, betting etc.
#: ''Even as '''friendlies''', derbies often arouse strong emotions
# A person or entity on the same side of a conflict.
#* '''2008''', Dennis Wengert, ''A Very Healthy Insanity'' (page 44)
#*: You see, the mission of almost every teenage girl on the loose is to first identify the targets, just like a war. These include the primary objective (the boy), the enemy (other girls), the '''friendlies''' (sympathetic girl friends and the boy's family), and unfriendlies (other boys).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(''sports'') game}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|приятелски мач|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Danish: {{t|da|venskabskamp|c}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|[[vriendschappelijke]] [[wedstrijd]]}} <!-- was "vriendschappelijke wedstrijd" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, use {{t}} instead of {{t-SOP}}. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ystävyysottelu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|match amical|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|amigable|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Freundschaftsspiel|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φιλικός|m}} (''filikós'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|vináttuleikur|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|親善試合|tr=''shinzenjiai''}}, {{t|ja|フレンドシップマッチ|tr=''furendoshippu macchi''}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|vennskapskamp}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|amistoso|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|amistoso|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|träningsmatch|c}}, {{t|sv|vänskapsmatch|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|someone of the same side}}
* Dutch: {{qualifier|partij/soldaat etc.}} {{t+|nl|bevriende}}, {{t+|nl|bondgenoot|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ami}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|味方|tr=''mikata''}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|amigo|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|amichevole|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+check|no|vennlig}}, {{t-check|no|sympatisk}}
* Romanian: {{t+check|ro|amical|m}}, {{qualifier|1}} {{t-check|ro|amicală|f}}, {{t+check|ro|prietenos|m}}, {{qualifier|2}} {{t-check|ro|prietenoasă|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|amistoso|m}}, {{t+check|es|amistosa|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ca:friendly]]
[[cs:friendly]]
[[cy:friendly]]
[[da:friendly]]
[[de:friendly]]
[[et:friendly]]
[[el:friendly]]
[[es:friendly]]
[[fr:friendly]]
[[ko:friendly]]
[[hy:friendly]]
[[io:friendly]]
[[it:friendly]]
[[kn:friendly]]
[[ku:friendly]]
[[lt:friendly]]
[[li:friendly]]
[[hu:friendly]]
[[mg:friendly]]
[[ml:friendly]]
[[my:friendly]]
[[nl:friendly]]
[[ja:friendly]]
[[oc:friendly]]
[[uz:friendly]]
[[pl:friendly]]
[[sm:friendly]]
[[simple:friendly]]
[[fi:friendly]]
[[sv:friendly]]
[[ta:friendly]]
[[te:friendly]]
[[th:friendly]]
[[chr:friendly]]
[[tr:friendly]]
[[vi:friendly]]
[[zh:friendly]]