{{see|the fuck}}
{{wikipedia|Fuck}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Uncertain, though almost certainly Germanic. Though not seen in print until the 1500s, a personal name ''John Le Fucker'' recorded in 1278 suggests that it had been around a lot longer. Compare dialectal Norwegian ''[[fukka]]'' ‘fuck’, Swedish ''fokka'' (earlier "fuck; thrust", nowadays ''[[focka]]'' "fire from work") and Dutch ''[[fokken]]'' ‘to breed’. It may go back to the Indo-European root ''*peuk-'' ‘strike’ (source of Latin ''[[pugnus]]'' “fist” among many others), but the phonetic relations are inconclusive. A range of folk-etymological acronyms have been advanced ([[Fornication|'''F'''ornication]] '''U'''nder '''C'''onsent of the '''K'''ing, '''F'''or '''U'''nlawful '''C'''arnal '''K'''nowledge), all demonstrably false.

===Pronunciation===
*fŭk, {{IPAchar|/fʌk/}}, /<tt>fVk</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ʌk|Rhymes: -ʌk]]
*{{audio|en-us-fuck.ogg|Audio (US)}}

sorry but this word is too rude

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An act of sexual intercourse.
#: ''That was a great '''fuck'''.'' 
# A sexual partner.
#: ''She’s a good '''fuck'''.'' 
# A highly contemptible person.
#: ''He is a stupid '''fuck'''.''
# Not caring.
#:''I don’t give a '''fuck'''!''
#:''I don’t give a flying '''fuck'''!''

====Synonyms====
*see [[WikiSaurus:sexual intercourse]]
*[[dickhead]]

====Translations====
'''an act of sexual intercourse'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[clau]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[wip]]
*Esperanto: [[fiko]]
*Finnish: [[nainti]], [[pano#Finnish|pano]]
*German: [[Fick]] {{m}}, [[Bums]] {{m}},[[Ritt]] {{m}},
*Greek: [[γαμήσι]] (gamisi) {{n}}, [[πήδημα]] (pidima) {{n}}
*Italian: [[scopata]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[pieprzenie]] {{n}} (1), [[jebanie#Polish|jebanie]] {{n}} (1), [[pierdolenie]] {{n}} (4,1)
*Portuguese: [[foda]], [[trepada]]
*Romanian: [[futai]], [[futere]]
*Russian: [[ебня]] (jebnjá) {{f}}, [[ебота]] (jebotá) {{f}}, [[еботуха]] (jebotúkha) {{f}}, [[ёбля]] (jóblja) {{f}}, [[поебон]] (pojebón) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[polvo]]
*Swedish: [[ligg]] {{n}}, [[knull]] {{n}}
*Turkish: [[sikişmek]]
{{bottom}}

'''sexual partner'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[wip]]
*Finnish: [[nainti]], [[pano#Finnish|pano]], [[hoito]]
*French: [[baiseuse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Fick]]
*Portuguese: [[foda]], [[trepada]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[ёбарь]] (jóbar’) {{m}}, [[ебушка]] (jebúška) {{f}}, [[ебец]] (jebéts) {{m}}, [[ебун]] (jebún) {{m}}
*Swedish: [[ligg]] {{n}}, [[knull]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''highly contemptible person'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kusipää]], [[vittupää]]
*French: [[connard]] {{m}}, [[connasse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Ficker]], [[Wichser]]
*Greek: [[γαμημένος]] (gamiménos) {{m}}, [[γαμημένη]] (gamiméni) {{f}}, [[γαμημένο]] (gamiméno) {{n}}
*Italian: [[stronzo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[pojeb#Polish|pojeb]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[заёба]] (zajóba) {{m}}
*Spanish: {{m}} (''Spain'') capullo, (''Latin America'') [[pendejo]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[ебане]] (ebane) {{n}} (1) 
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[düzüşme]] {{n}}, [[sikişme]] {{n}} ([[siktir]], ''fuck off'')

===Interjection===
'''fuck!'''

# Term of discontentment.
#: ''Oh '''fuck'''!''
#: '''''Fuck''' this!''
#: ''For '''fucks''' sake!''
#: '''''Fuck''' me!''
#: '''''Fuck''', '''fuck'''etty, '''fuck''', '''fuck''', '''fuck'''''
# Exclamation of surprise.
#: ''What the '''fuck'''?''
# Declaration or emphasis on one’s feeling of awe or surprise, often used when observing a scene of grandeur or display of power.
#: ''Holy '''fuck'''...''
# Used as an intensifier:
#:''What the '''fuck''' did you do that for?''
#:''Are you out of your '''fuck'''ing mind?!''
#:''Abso-'''fuck'''ing-lutely!''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[merda]]!
*Czech: [[kurva]]! [[do prdele]]! [[do piče]]!
*Dutch: [[kut]]!
*Esperanto: [[fek']]!
*Finnish: [[voi vittu]] (literally, 'oh cunt')
*German: [[Scheiße]]! [[Mist]]!
*Greek: [[γαμώτο]]! (gamoto) [[άει γαμήσου]]! (ai gamisu) = ''fuck off!''
*French: [[putain]]!
*Hungarian: [[baszik|baszd meg]]!
*Italian: [[cazzo]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ファック]] ([[fakku]]), [[チェ]] ([[che]])
*Malaysian: [[puki mak]]
*Polish: [[O kurwa]]! , [[O w kurwę]]!, [[Ja pierdolę]]!
*Portuguse: [[porra]]!
*Russian: [[ёб]]! (yop!)
*Spanish: ¡[[joder]]!
*Turkish: [[a siktir]]!, [[sikim]]!, [[amına koyyim]]!
*Swedish: [[fan]]! (literally, 'Satan')
{{bottom}}

====Synonyms====
*[[fark]]
*[[feck]]

===Derived terms===
{{top3}}
*[[buttfuck]]
*[[clusterfuck]]
*[[craft]]
*[[Figjam]]
*[[for fuck's sake]]
*[[FUBAR]]
*[[fuck about]]
*[[fuck all]]
*[[fuck around]]
*[[fuck off]]
*[[fuck someone around]]
*[[fuck someone off]]
*[[fuck someone over]]
*[[fuck someone up]]
*[[fuck the dog]]
*[[fuck up]]
*[[fuck you]]
{{mid3}}
*[[fuckable]]
*[[fuckbuddy]]
*[[fucked in the head]]
*[[fucked up]]
*[[fuckedness]]
*[[fucker]]
*[[fuckhead]]
*[[fuckhoofd]]
*[[fucking A]]
*[[fucking]]
*[[fuckknuckle]]
*[[fuckload]]
*[[fuckmate]] 
*[[fuck-me]]
*[[fucknut]]
*[[fuckspeak]]
*[[fucktard]]
{{mid3}}
*[[fuckup]]
*[[fuckwad]]
*[[fuckwit]]
*[[give a fuck]]
*[[(go) fuck yourself]]
*[[how the fuck]]
*[[lamefuck]]
*[[mofo]]
*[[motherfucker]]
*[[pigfucker]]
*[[snafu]]
*[[sofa king]]
*[[STFU]]
*[[sweet F A]]
*[[the fuck]]
*[[uckfay]]
*[[when the fuck]]
*[[where the fuck]]
*[[who the fuck]]
*[[why the fuck]]
*[[WTF]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:Vulgarities]]

[[cs:fuck]]
[[de:fuck]]
[[fr:fuck]]
[[ko:fuck]]
[[ku:fuck]]
[[ja:fuck]]
[[pl:fuck]]
[[ru:fuck]]
[[fi:fuck]]
[[sv:fuck]]
[[ta:fuck]]
[[vi:fuck]]
[[zh:fuck]]