==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|full steam ahead}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en|en-au-full speed ahead.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interjection}}

# {{lb|en|usually|nautical}} A command to move forward at [[maximum]] speed.
#: ''Damn the torpedoes, '''full speed ahead'''!''
#* '''1918''', {{w|Edgar Rice Burroughs}}, [[w:The Land That Time Forgot (novel)|The Land That Time Forgot]], chapter 4:
#*: We had advanced a hundred yards, perhaps, when our first danger confronted us. Just ahead was a sharp right-angle turn in the tunnel. I could see the river's flotsam hurtling against the rocky wall upon the left as it was driven on by the mighty current, and I feared for the safety of the U-33 in making so sharp a turn under such adverse conditions; but there was nothing for it but to try. I didn't warn my fellows of the danger--it could have but caused them useless apprehension, for if we were to be smashed against the rocky wall, no power on earth could avert the quick end that would come to us. I gave the command '''full speed ahead''' and went charging toward the menace. I was forced to approach the dangerous left-hand wall in order to make the turn, and I depended upon the power of the motors to carry us through the surging waters in safety.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|usually|nautical}} [[Maximum]] speed on a ship.
#: {{ux|en|Then he gave it '''full speed ahead''', and shot us into the inlet.}}
# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} [[maximum|Maximum]] [[effort]] without reservations or delay.
#: {{ux|en|We got the OK on the conversion project. It's '''full speed ahead'''.}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} With [[maximum]] [[effort]], without reservations or delay.
#: {{ux|en|He charged '''full speed ahead''' into his studies.}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} [[unhesitant|Unhesitant]].
#: {{ux|en|The company's '''full speed ahead''' approach to product development would ultimately be its downfall.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|passage=I was always so busy and '''full-speed ahead''' that I didn't take any time out to really listen to God.|title=Shattered|page=129|year=2009|isbn=1615791914}}
#* {{quote-book|en|passage=And what he's done in climbing is no less than world class — a blend of vision and genetic athleticism, with a '''full-speed-ahead''' approach that dwells on the possibilities, not the problems.|title=An Eye at the Top of the World|author=Pete Takeda|year=2013|page=90|isbn=9781568583587}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|nautical}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|全速前進|tr=quánsù qiánjìn}}
* French: {{t|fr|en avant toute}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מָלֵא קָדִימָה|tr=male kadima}}, {{t|he|קָדִימָה מָלֵא|tr=kadima male}}
* Italian: {{t|it|a tutto vapore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|全速前進|tr=zensoku zenshin}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|전속 전진}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|pełną parą}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|a todo vapor}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|a toda máquina}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|full fart framåt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|idiom, maximum effort}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pleins gaz}}, {{t+|fr|à toute vitesse}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|בִּמְלוֹא הַקִיטוֹר|tr=bimlo hakitor}}
* Italian: {{t|it|a capofitto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|pełną parą}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|a todo vapor}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|a toda máquina}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|full fart framåt}}
{{trans-bottom}}