{{also|Fy|FY|-fy|fy.}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
{{mul-symbol}}

# {{ISO 639|1}}

----

==English==

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# {{archaic form of|en|fie}}
#* '''1828''', James Hogg, ''Mary Burnet''
#*: "O '''fy''', Andrew, how can ye say sae? How can ye doubt that it was in the Almighty's name?"

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=fy|YF|yf}}

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Norn==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|Orkney}} {{l|nrn|fa}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nrn|non|faðir|t=father}} , from {{inh|nrn|gem-pro|*fadēr}}, from {{inh|nrn|ine-pro|*ph₂tḗr}}. Compare Orcadian {{m|nrn|fa}}.

===Noun===
{{head|nrn|noun|definite singular|feyrin|or|fyrin}}

# {{lb|nrn|Shetland}} {{l|en|father}}
#* '''c. 17th century''', [[w:en:Hildina|Hildina]] ([http://nornlanguage.x10.mx/shet_txt_hild.htm source])
#*: '''''Fy''' di yera da ov man dum''
#*:: '''father''' thou overdost thy manhood
#*: ''Nu Hildina on askar '''feyrin''' sien''
#*:: Now Hildina she asks her '''father'''
#*: ''hien mindi yagh inga forlskona bera fare kera '''fyrin''' min''
#*:: and sure I will not present any poisoned drink, to serve for my '''father'''

[[Category:nrn:Family]]

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Interjection===
{{head|nb|interjection}}

# [[phew]], [[shame]]; interjection expressing disapproval or disgust

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Interjection===
{{head|nn|interjection}}

# [[phew]], [[shame]]; interjection expressing disapproval or disgust

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sv|/fyː/}}

===Interjection===
{{head|sv|interjection}}

# [[phew]], [[shame]], [[fie]]; interjection expressing disapproval or disgust
#: {{ux|sv|'''Fy''' på dig!|'''Fie''' upon you! ("You acted in a bad way!", often towards a child or pet or the like – less dated-sounding in Swedish)}}
#: {{ux|sv|'''Fy''' så här stinker|'''Phew''', it stinks in here}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|sv|fy bubblan}}
* {{l|sv|fy hundan}}
* {{l|sv|fy farao}}

----

==Welsh==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|cy|'y}} {{q|colloquial}}
* {{l|cy|'m}} {{q|chiefly literary|used after some prepositions|does not trigger mutation}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|standard}} {{IPA|cy|/və/}}
** {{a|colloquial}} {{IPA|cy|/ən/|/n/|/ə/|/-/}}
* {{rhymes|cy|ə|s=1}}

===Determiner===
{{head|cy|determiner|cat2=possessive determiners|triggers [[Appendix:Welsh mutations#Nasal mutation|nasal mutation]] of a following consonant}}

# [[my]]
#: {{ux|cy|Dyna '''fy''' nhad a '''fy''' nhad-cu.|That's '''my''' father and '''my''' grandfather.}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|cy|pronoun|cat2=personal pronouns|triggers [[Appendix:Welsh mutations#Nasal mutation|nasal mutation]] of a following consonant}}

# [[me]] {{qualifier|as the direct object of a verbal noun}}
#: {{ux|cy|Byddant yn '''fy''' nghyflogi dros dro.|They will employ '''me''' temporarily.}}

====Usage notes====
* After the noun or verbnoun which {{m|cy|fy}} precedes, {{m|cy|i}} is often added. In formal language, this is done to emphasise the determiner or pronoun. In colloquial language, it is not necessarily an indicator of emphasis, and is often included with the determiner and always included with the pronoun. The exception to the latter case is in passive constructions employing {{m|cy|cael}}, where {{m|cy|i}} is never used.
* In formal Welsh, contractions of {{m|cy|fy}} include {{m|cy|f'}} is a vowel-initial words in poetic language and {{m|cy|'m}} after mostly functional vowel-final words.
* In colloquial Welsh, another form of the word is used, namely {{m|cy|yn}} /ən/. This begins with a vowel and usually triggers a nasal mutation hence has the tendency to be reduced variously in colloquial spelling and pronunciation as {{m|cy|'n}} /n/, {{m|cy|y}} or {{m|cy|'y}} /ə/ or zero (the following mutation indicating its presence). This {{m|cy|yn}} and its various forms usually triggers nasal mutation but may trigger soft mutation in some instances.
* Pronomial {{m|cy|fy}} can occur before any verbal noun. Before a verb, pronomial {{m|cy|'m}} is found only in literary language after certain vowel-final preverbal particles. See entry for {{m|cy|'m}} for more information.

===Further reading===
* {{R:cy:GPC}}

----