==English==

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# An abnormal or irrational [[fear]] of [[doctor]]s or going to the [[doctor]].
#*'''1996''', Leslie A. Fiedler, ''Tyranny of the Normal: Essays on Bioethics, Theology & Myth'', p. 114.
#*:Though such '''iatrophobia''' has always been with us, it assumed an especially virulent form in the sixties.

[[Category:Phobias]]


What is Iatrophobia? 
Iatrophobia is a fear of going to the doctor or doctors. Iatrophobia is considered a social phobia, which is discussed on the Home page. This phobia could cause you to fear of any person who performs surgery, administers shots, gives medical diagnostics or any others in the medical field. The phobia could result in someone not receiving the medical treatment they need. Sometimes delays in seeking treatment can be serious, which could cause irreversible damage or even death. An example would be someone who avoids the doctor because of a cold that might be a sign of pneumonia.

What causes Iatrophobia?

Iatrophobia could be caused by a number of reasons. Some common examples could be: 1) A bad situation or traumatic event occurred in the person’s life as a child involving a doctor or in a doctor’s office; 2) Some people are intimidated by the doctor; 3) The doctor’s office reeks of medicine, which is scary to some people; 4) Doctors are generally trained to be not emotionally available to patients; 5) People are scared of catching other illnesses from the doctor or doctor’s office; 6) People are afraid having procedures performed (i.e., heart surgery); 7) People are afraid of possible negative outcomes from tests doctors perform; and 8) People are afraid of painful things or events, such as needles or resting a broken finger. These are only a few possible causes. There are probably hundreds more causes.

What are the symptoms of Iatrophobia?

Symptoms of Iatrophobia can include breathlessness, excessive sweating, nausea, dry mouth, feeling sick, shaking, heart palpitations, inability to speak or think clearly, a fear of dying, becoming mad or losing control, a sensation of detachment from reality or a full blown anxiety attack.