==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈɪd.i.əm/}}, {{SAMPA|/"id.i.@m/}}
* {{rfap}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[phrase]] characteristic of a particular language, that cannot necessarily be fully understood from the separate meanings of the individual words which form it, but instead must be learned as a whole unit of meaning.
#: ''You can't translate "kick the bucket" verbatim into French with the same meaning because it's an '''idiom'''.''
# A [[manner]] of speaking, a way of expressing oneself.
# An artistic [[style]] (for example, in art, architecture, or music).
# An [[instance]] of such a style.
# {{linguistics}} A communicative system under study, which could be called either a [[dialect]] or a [[language]], when its status as a language or dialect is irrelevant.
# {{programming}} A programming technique which experienced programmers in a language are assumed to know.
#* {{quote-book|2005|Magnus Lie Hetland|Beginning Python: From Novice to Professional|page=100|isbn=159059519X
|passage=I have to use the same assignment and call to raw_input in two places. How can I avoid that? I can use the <tt>while True/break</tt> '''idiom''': {{...}}}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|phrase}} [[expression]] {{qualifier|loosely}}, [[form of words]] {{qualifier|loosely}}, [[phrase]] {{qualifier|loosely}}

====Derived terms====
* [[idiomatic]]
* [[idiomatical]]
* [[idiomatically]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|phrase that cannot be understood from its component words}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[اصطلاح|اِصْطِلاح]]}} {{IPAchar|(iṣṭalāħ)}} {{m}}, {{Arab|[[مصطلح|مُصْطَلَح]]}} {{IPAchar|(muṣṭálaħ)}} {{m}}
* Chinese: [[成语]] (chéng yǔ)，[[习惯用语]] (xí guàn yòng yǔ)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|idiom|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|idiom}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|idioom|n}}, {{t+|nl|taaleigen|n}}
* Esperanto: [[idiotismo]]
* Finnish: {{t|fi|idiomi}}, {{t|fi|sanonta}}
* French: [[idiotisme]] {{m}}<!--these mean "phrase", "expression" rather than "idiom": [[locution]] {{f}}, [[expression#French|expression]] {{f}}-->
* Georgian: [[იდიომი]] (idiomi)
* German: {{t+|de|Idiom|n}}, {{t+|de|Redewendung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ιδίωμα|n|tr=idíoma|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[מטבע לשון]] (mitavah lashon) {{m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|idióma}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[idiotismo]]<!--this translates "phrase", "expression" rather than "idiom": [[expression#Interlingua|expression]]-->, [[idioma]]
* Italian: [[frase idiomatica]] {{f}}, [[locuzione]] {{f}}, [[modo di dire]] {{m}}, [[espressione idiomatica]] {{f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|熟語|tr=jukugo|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|成句|tr=seiku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[숙어]] ([[熟語]], suk-eo)
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|idiom|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|idioma|m}}, {{t+|pt|expressão idiomática|f}}
* Russian: [[идиома]] {{f}}, [[идиоматический оборот]] {{m}}, [[идиоматическое выражение]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|modismo|m}}, {{t-|es|frase hecha|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|idiom|n}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[สำนวน]]}} (sămnuan)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|deyim}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|manner of speaking}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|puhetapa}}, {{t|fi|puheenparsi}}, {{t|fi|idiomi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distinct style of art, etc}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|käsiala}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|様式|tr=yōshiki|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|instance of such style}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kädenjälki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|linguistics: communicative system}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kieli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|方言|tr=hōgen|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|訛り|tr=namari|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[ar:idiom]]
[[cs:idiom]]
[[fr:idiom]]
[[io:idiom]]
[[hu:idiom]]
[[no:idiom]]
[[pt:idiom]]
[[ru:idiom]]
[[fi:idiom]]
[[sv:idiom]]
[[ta:idiom]]
[[te:idiom]]
[[vi:idiom]]
[[tr:idiom]]
[[zh:idiom]]

====External links====
[http://www.sky-net-eye.com/eng/dictionary/english/idioms/american American idioms] - a comprehensive list of idioms, browsable through alphabetical links. Includes parts of speech, definitions and example sentences.