==English==

===Etymology===
The construction is unusual since the verb {{m|en|to [[please]]}} originally meant only “to satisfy”, not “to be satisfied”. The obvious solution would be to interpret {{m|en|you}} as an object pronoun and {{m|en||please}} as a verb in the third-person singular subjunctive, such that {{m|en||if you please}} actually meant {{m|en||if it may please you}}; compare {{cog|fr|s'il vous plaît}}. The according constructions {{m|en||if [[thee]] please}}, {{m|en|if [[him]] please}}, {{m|en|if [[them]] please}}, etc., are indeed attestable. However, if this approach is correct, the reinterpretation of the pronoun as the subject of the phrase must be very old as we also find {{m|en|as [[thou]] please}} and so on.

===Phrase===
{{head|en|phrase}}

# {{lb|en|dated|formal}} [[please]]
#* '''1906''', [[w:Edith Nesbit|Edith Nesbit]], ''[[s:The Railway Children/Chapter 4|The Railway Children]]'', Chapter 4: The engine-burglar,
#*: The engine-driver and fireman did not see her. They were leaning out on the other side, telling the Porter a tale about a dog and a leg of mutton.<br>
#*: "'''If you please'''," said Roberta--but the engine was blowing off steam and no one heard her.<br>
#*: "'''If you please''', Mr. Engineer," she spoke a little louder, but the Engine happened to speak at the same moment, and of course Roberta's soft little voice hadn't a chance.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(dated, formal) please}}
* Danish: {{t|da|om du vil være så venlig}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|([[szíves]]) [[engedelmével]]/[[engedelmeddel]]}} {{q|the former is formal; the latter is informal}}
* Latin: {{t|la|[[sī]] [[vultis]]}}, {{t|la|sultis}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* {{R:Longman}}
* {{R:MWO}}
* {{R:Collins}}

[[Category:English subordinate clauses]]