==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|imperfit}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|imparfit}} (modern: {{m|fr|imparfait}}), from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|imperfectus}}. Spelling modified 15c. to conform Latin etymology. See {{prefix|im|perfect|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ɪmˈpɝːfɪkt/|/ɪmˈpɝːfɛkt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-imperfect.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Not [[perfect]].
#* Shakespeare
#*: Why, then, your other senses grow '''imperfect'''.
#* Milton
#*: Nothing '''imperfect''' or deficient left / Of all that he created.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: Then say not man's '''imperfect''', Heaven in fault; / Say rather, man's as perfect as he ought.
# {{lb|en|botany}} [[unisexual]]: having either male (with [[stamen]]s) or female (with [[pistil]]) flowers, but not with both.
# {{lb|en|taxonomy}} Known or expected to be [[polyphyletic]], as of a [[form taxon]].
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Lacking some elementary organ that is essential to successful or normal activity.
#* Jeremy Taylor
#*: He {{...}} stammered like a child, or an amazed, '''imperfect''' person.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|not perfect}} {{l|en|defective}}, {{l|en|fallible}}, {{l|en|faultful}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|not perfect}} {{l|en|perfect}}, {{l|en|infallible}}, {{l|en|faultless}}
* {{sense|unisexual}} {{l|en|perfect}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|imperfection}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not perfect}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|imperfeutu}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|imperfecte}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|nedokonalý|m}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vajavainen}}, {{t|fi|epätäydellinen}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|imperfecto|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ατελής|m|f}}, {{t+|el|ελλιπής|m|f}}, {{t+|el|πλημμελής|m|f}}, {{t+|el|ελαττωματικός|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tökéletlen}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|tidak sempurna}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|anfhoirfe}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|不完全|alt=不完全な|tr=fukanzen na}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|ខ្ចោះ|tr=kcɑh|sc=Khmr}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|takarepa}}, {{t|mi|nawe}}, {{t|mi|kōkau}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|imperfeito}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|imperfect|m|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|несоверше́нный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|imperfecto}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|balhag}}, {{t|tl|dihimpit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|unisexual|unisexual}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Something having a [[minor]] [[flaw]]
# {{lb|en|grammar}} A [[tense]] of [[verbs]] used in [[describing]] a [[past]] [[action]] that is [[incomplete]] or [[continuous]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|grammar}} {{l|en|preterimperfect}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|imperfective}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|something having a minor flaw}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sekunda}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υποτυπώδης|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|past tense}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ناقص-غير كامل}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|անկատար}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|imperfet|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|onvoltooid verleden tijd|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|imperfekti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|imparfait|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|imperfecto|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Imperfekt|n}}, {{t|de|Imperfektum|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παρατατικός|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imperfetto|m}}
* Latin: {{t|la|tempus praeteritum imperfectum|n}}, {{t|la|tempus imperfectum|n}}, {{t|la|praeteritum imperfectum|n}}, {{t|la|imperfectum|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|ناقص|tr=nâqes|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|imperfeito|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|несоверше́нный|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|imperfecto|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|imperfekt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make imperfect.
#* '''1651''', {{w|John Donne}}, Letter to {{w|Henry Goodere}}, in ''Letters to Severall Persons of Honour'', edited by Charles Edmund Merrill, Jr., New York: Sturgis & Walton, 1910,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/37387/37387.txt]</sup>
#*: I write to you from the ''Spring Garden'', whither I withdrew my self to think of this; and the intensenesse of my thinking ends in this, that by my help Gods work should be '''imperfected''', if by any means I resisted the amasement.
#* '''1716''', {{w|Thomas Browne}}, ''{{w|Christian Morals}}'', 2nd edition edited by {{w|Samuel Johnson}}, London: J. Payne, 1756, Part I, p. 43,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/christianmorals01browgoog]</sup>
#*: Time, which perfects some things, '''imperfects''' also others.
#* '''1962''', Alec Harman and {{w|Wilfrid Mellers}}, ''Man and His Music: The Story of Musical Experience in the West'', Oxford University Press, Part I, Chapter 5, p. 126,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.156593]</sup>
#*: {{...}} such was their desire for greater rhythmic freedom that composers began to use red notes as well. {{...}} Their value was {{...}} restricted at first, for redness implies the '''imperfecting''' of a note which is perfect if black {{...}}

[[Category:en:Tenses]]