==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|la|[[in]] [[mediās]] [[rēs]]|lit=into the middle of things}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ɪn ˌmiːdɪəs ˈɹeɪz/}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-|head=in medias res}}

# In the [[middle]] of a [[storyline]].
#: {{syn|en|in-between}}
#: {{coordinate terms|en|ab ovo}}
#: {{ux|en|This novel begins '''in medias res'''.}}
#* '''2008''', Don Gifford, Robert J. Seidman, ''Ulysses Annotated: Notes for James Joyce's Ulysses'', Univ of California Press ({{ISBN|9780520253971}}), page 2:
#*: As in a good epic, Ulysses begins '''in medias res''' and fills us in on Stephen's life since the end of ''A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man'' by flashback; and by the flashback of memory we are given the story of Molly's and Bloom's lives.
#* '''2013''', H. David Brumble, ''Classical Myths and Legends in the Middle Ages and Renaissance: A Dictionary of Allegorical Meanings'', Routledge ({{ISBN|9781136797378}})
#*: Homer begins '''in medias res'''. Then, well into the poem, he takes us back to tell us about the events that make up the beginning of the story. The Odyssey, for example, begins in the tenth year of Odysseus's wanderings; then, later in the  poem, {{...}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-|head=in medias res}}

# [[begin|Beginning]] in the [[middle]] of its [[storyline]]: said of a [[work]] of [[literature]] or a [[film]].
#: {{ux|en|Although not strictly '''in medias res''', the film uses flashbacks extensively.}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|head=in medias res}}

# [[narrative|Narrative]] presented ''in medias res''.
#* '''2010''' (March 31<sup>st</sup>, 5:00pm): <span class="plainlinks">[https://web.archive.org/web/20200127051219/http://www.escapistmagazine.com/profiles/view/Yahtzee%20Croshaw Ben “Yahtzee” Croshaw], “[https://web.archive.org/web/20130420020848/http://www.escapistmagazine.com/videos/view/zero-punctuation/1569-Final-Fantasy-XIII Final Fantasy XIII]” reviewed by ''[http://www.escapistmagazine.com/videos/view/zero-punctuation Zero Punctuation]''</span>, 2:03–2:16
#*: Anyway, the characters have been introduced but by no means established. I know Final Fantasy’s always been big on '''''in medias res''''', but even the most basic questions about the plot remain unanswered. Who the fuck are these people? What is going on? Why should I care? Can I stop playing now? ''Please?''

===Further reading===
* {{pedia}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=adeeiimnrss|sideramines}}

[[Category:en:Narratology]]

----

==Spanish==
{{wikipedia|lang=es}}

===Etymology===
From {{bor|es|la|[[in]] [[medium|mediās]] [[rēs]]|lit=into the middle of things}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{es-IPA}}

===Adverb===
{{es-adv|head=in medias res}}

# [[#English|in medias res]]

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|head=in medias res|inv=1}}

# [[#English|in medias res]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|es|ab initio}}
* {{l|es|ab ovo}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:es:DRAE}}