==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{attention|ang}} {{term|ynce|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|la|en}}  {{term|uncia||twelfth part|lang=la}}. Compare {{term|ounce|lang=en}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/ɪntʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-inch.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪntʃ|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# A unit of [[length]] equal to one [[twelfth]] of a [[foot]], or exactly 2.54 [[centimetre]]s.
# {{context|meteorology|lang=en}} The amount of water which would cover a surface to the depth of an inch, used as a measurement of [[rainfall]].
# The amount of an alcoholic beverage which would fill a glass or bottle to the depth of an inch.
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} A very short distance.
#: ''"Don't move an '''inch'''!"''
#* Shakespeare
#*: Beldame, I think we watched you at an '''inch'''.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[every inch]]
* [[in for an inch, in for a mile]]
* [[inch-perfect]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|unit of length}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|بوصة|f|tr=būṣa|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|դյույմ}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|дзюйм|m}}, {{t|be|ца́ля|f}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|meutad|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|инч|m}}, {{t+|bg|дюйм|m}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|polzada|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|英寸|tr=yīngcùn}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|palec|m}}, {{t+|cs|coul|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|tomme|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|duim|m}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|toll}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|tummi|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuuma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pouce|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|pulgada|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zoll|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ίντσα|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אינץ'|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hüvelyk}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|tomma|f}}, {{t|is|þumlungur|m}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|orlach|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|pollice|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|インチ|tr=inchi|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|pouce|m}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|인치|sc=Kore}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|colis|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|инч|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|inci}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|asdzoh}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|tomme|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|cal|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|polegada|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|țol|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дюйм|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|инч|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|inč|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|palec|m}}, {{t|sk|cól|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|palec|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pulgada|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|inchi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tum|c}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|அங்குலம்}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|అంగుళము}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|inç}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|дюйм|m}}, {{qualifier|rare}} {{t+|uk|цаль|m}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|modfedd|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unspecified but very short distance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|милиметър|m}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|centímetre|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|少許}}{{t+|cmn|少许|tr=shǎoxǔ}}, {{t+|cmn|一點兒}}, {{t+|cmn|一点儿|tr=yīdiǎnr}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kousek|m}}, {{t|cs|kousíček|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|haarbreed|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poil|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zoll|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σπιθαμή|f|sc=Grek}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|plaukas|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|tomme|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|włos|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|inchi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|inch|es}}

# {{context|intransitive|followed by a preposition|lang=en}} To [[advance]] very [[slowly]], or by a small amount (in a particular direction).
#: ''Fearful of falling, he '''inched''' along the window ledge.''
#* '''1957''', [[w:J. D. Salinger|J. D. Salinger]], "Zooey", in, 1961, ''[[w:Franny and Zooey|Franny and Zooey]]'':
#*:The window blind had been lowered — Zooey had done all his bathtub reading  by the  light from the three-bulb overhead fixture—but a fraction of morning light '''inched''' under the blind and onto the title page of the manuscript.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2012
|date=May 9
|author=John Percy
|title=Birmingham City 2 Blackpool 2 (2-3 on agg): match report
|work=the Telegraph
|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/competitions/championship/9254026/Birmingham-City-2-Blackpool-2-2-3-on-agg-match-report.html
|page=
|passage=Already guarding a 1-0 lead from the first leg, Blackpool '''inched''' further ahead when Stephen Dobbie scored from an acute angle on the stroke of half-time. The game appeared to be completely beyond Birmingham’s reach three minutes into the second period when Matt Phillips reacted quickly to bundle the ball past Colin Doyle and off a post.}}
# To drive by inches, or small degrees.
#* Dryden
#*: He gets too far into the soldier's grace / And '''inches''' out my master.
# To deal out by inches; to give sparingly.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[inch along]]
* [[inch forward]]
* [[inch up]]
* [[inchworm]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to move very slowly}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hivuttautua}}, [[edetä]] [[hitaasti]]
* German: [[sich]] [[zentimeterweise]] [[fortbewegen]]
* Italian: [[muoversi]] [[poco a poco]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[movimentar-se]] [[pouco a pouco]] OR movimentar-se [[aos poucos]]
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|inchi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[thou]]
* [[mil]]

===Etymology 2===
From Gaelic {{term|innis}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{context|Scotland|lang=en}} A small [[island]]
#* Sir Walter Scott, ''Rosabelle''
#*: The blackening wave is edged with white; / To '''inch''' and rock the sea-mews fly.

====Usage notes====
* Found especially in the names of small Scottish islands, e.g. {{w|Inchcolm}}, {{w|Inchkeith}}.

===Anagrams===
* [[chin#English|chin]] , [[Chin#English|Chin]]

[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:en:Units of measure]]

[[ca:inch]]
[[cs:inch]]
[[cy:inch]]
[[et:inch]]
[[el:inch]]
[[es:inch]]
[[fr:inch]]
[[ko:inch]]
[[hy:inch]]
[[io:inch]]
[[kl:inch]]
[[kn:inch]]
[[ku:inch]]
[[li:inch]]
[[hu:inch]]
[[mg:inch]]
[[ml:inch]]
[[my:inch]]
[[nl:inch]]
[[pl:inch]]
[[ro:inch]]
[[ru:inch]]
[[simple:inch]]
[[fi:inch]]
[[sv:inch]]
[[ta:inch]]
[[te:inch]]
[[chr:inch]]
[[tr:inch]]
[[vi:inch]]
[[zh:inch]]