==English==

{{rfe|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Canada}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈkɔɹpɚe(ɪ)t/|lang=en}}
** {{audio|en-ca-incorporate.ogg|Audio (CA)|lang=en}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈkɔː(ɹ).pɜː(ɹ).eɪt/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|ĭnkôr'pərāt}}, {{IPA|/ɪnˈkɔɹpɚeɪt/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|incorporat}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To include (something) as a part.
#: ''The design of his house '''incorporates''' a spiral staircase.''
#: ''to '''incorporate''' another's ideas into one's work''
#* Addison
#*: The Romans did not subdue a country to put the inhabitants to fire and sword, but to '''incorporate''' them into their own community.
# {{label|en|transitive}} To [[mix]] (something in) as an [[ingredient]]; to [[blend]]
#: '''''Incorporate''' air into the mixture.''
# {{label|en|transitive}} To admit as a member of a [[company]]
# {{label|en|transitive}} To form into a legal company.
#: ''The company was '''incorporated''' in 1980.''
# {{label|en|US|legal}} To include (another clause or guarantee of the US constitution) as a part (of the [[w:Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Fourteenth Amendment]], such that the clause binds not only the federal government but also state governments).
# To form into a body; to combine, as different ingredients, into one consistent mass.
#* Shakespeare
#*: By your leaves, you shall not stay alone, / Till holy church '''incorporate''' two in one.
# To unite with a material body; to give a material form to; to embody.
#* Bishop Stillingfleet
#*: The idolaters, who worshipped their images as gods, supposed some spirit to be '''incorporated''' therein.

====Derived terms====
* [[incorporated]]<!--adjective-->

====Translations====
{{trans-top|include as a part or ingredient}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|incorporar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|inbouwen}}, {{t+|nl|inlijven}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|sisällyttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|incorporer}}
* German: {{t+|de|enthalten}}, {{t+|de|beinhalten}}, {{t+|de|hinzufügen}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|enkorpigar}}
* Italian: {{t|it|incorporare}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|cochorpaghey}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|komokomo}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|incorporar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|включа́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|включи́ть|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|vključiti}}, {{t|sl|vključevati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|incorporar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|arbeta in}}, {{t+|sv|innefatta}}, {{t+|sv|införliva}}, {{t+|sv|inkorporera}}, {{t+|sv|inlemma}}, {{t+|sv|lägga till}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|içermek}}, {{t+|tr|ihtiva etmek}}, {{t+|tr|kapsamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mix, blend}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sekoittaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|incorporer}}
* German: {{t|de|einbinden}}, {{t|de|inkorporieren}}, {{t+|de|integrieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|enkorpigar}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|incorporar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blanda}}, {{t+|sv|legera}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|katmak}}, {{t|tr|dahil etmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|admit as a member of a company}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|incorporar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|uppta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|form into a legal company}}
* German: {{t+|de|gründen}}, {{t+|de|einverleiben}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|incorporar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{l|sv|göra till}} en {{t+|sv|korporation}}
* Turkish: {{l|tr|firma}} {{t+|tr|kurmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} Corporate; incorporated; made one body, or united in one body; associated; mixed together; combined; embodied.
#* Shakespeare
#*: As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds / Had been '''incorporate'''.
#* Francis Bacon
#*: a fifteenth part of silver '''incorporate''' with gold
# Not consisting of matter; not having a material body; [[incorporeal]]; [[spiritual]].
#* Sir Walter Raleigh
#*: Moses forbore to speak of angels, and things invisible, and '''incorporate'''.
# Not incorporated; not existing as a [[corporation]].
#: ''an '''incorporate''' banking association''

===Anagrams===
* [[procreation#English|procreation]]

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|incorporare||2|p|pres|indc|lang=it}}
# {{inflection of|incorporare||2|p|impr|lang=it}}
# {{feminine plural of|incorporato|lang=it}}

===Anagrams===
* [[crepitarono#Italian|crepitarono]]
* [[patrocinerò#Italian|patrocinerò]]
* [[portoricane#Italian|portoricane]]

[[Category:Italian past participle forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|incorporāte}}

# {{inflection of|incorporō||2|p|pres|actv|impr|lang=la}}

[[ca:incorporate]]
[[cs:incorporate]]
[[et:incorporate]]
[[es:incorporate]]
[[fa:incorporate]]
[[fr:incorporate]]
[[ko:incorporate]]
[[hy:incorporate]]
[[io:incorporate]]
[[it:incorporate]]
[[kn:incorporate]]
[[ku:incorporate]]
[[hu:incorporate]]
[[mg:incorporate]]
[[ml:incorporate]]
[[my:incorporate]]
[[pl:incorporate]]
[[simple:incorporate]]
[[fi:incorporate]]
[[sv:incorporate]]
[[ta:incorporate]]
[[te:incorporate]]
[[chr:incorporate]]
[[vi:incorporate]]
[[zh:incorporate]]