==English==

===Etymology===
From {{af|en|in-|considerate}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˌɪnkənˈsɪdəɹɪt/|/ˌɪŋ-/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Not [[considerate]] of others.
#: {{syn|en|thoughtless|unthoughtful}}
#: {{ant|en|considerate|thoughtful}}
#: {{ux|en|Not replacing the roll after using the last of the toilet paper is very '''inconsiderate'''.}}
#* '''1852''', {{w|Harriet Beecher Stowe}}, ''{{w|Uncle Tom's Cabin|Uncle Tom’s Cabin}},'' Boston: John P. Jewett, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}15, p.{{nbsp}}241,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/uncletomscabino121852stow/page/n243]</sup>
#*: “It’s very '''inconsiderate''' of you, St. Clare,” said the lady, “to insist on my talking and looking at things. You know I’ve been lying all day with the sick-headache; and there’s been such a tumult made ever since you came, I’m half dead.”
#* '''1922''', {{w|Willa Cather}}, ''{{w|One of Ours}},'' New York: Knopf, Book{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, pp.{{nbsp}}89-90,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/oneofours00cathrich/page/88]</sup>
#*: Bayliss and his father were talking together before dinner when Claude came in and was so '''inconsiderate''' as to put up a window, though he knew his brother hated a draft.
#* '''1988''', {{w|Anne Tyler}}, ''{{w|Breathing Lessons}},'' New York: Knopf, Part{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}13,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/breathinglessonstyle00tyle]</sup>
#*: “{{w|Ann Landers}} claims drop-in visits are '''inconsiderate''',” he said.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Not giving enough [[consideration]] to one's actions, conclusions, etc.; acting too quickly without considering the [[risks]] and [[consequences]].
#: {{syn|en|hasty|inattentive|rash|unreflecting}}
#* {{circa|1596}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|King John (play)|King John}},'' Act{{nbsp}}II, Scene{{nbsp}}1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=kingjohn&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: And all the unsettled humours of the land,
#*: Rash, '''inconsiderate''', fiery voluntaries, {{...}}
#*: Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
#*: Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
#*: To make hazard of new fortunes here:
#* '''1689''', {{w|John Locke}}, ''{{w|An Essay Concerning Human Understanding}},'' London: Thomas Basset, Book{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}4, §{{nbsp}}15, p.{{nbsp}}32,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A48874.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the wise and considerate Men of the World, by a right and careful employment of their Thoughts, and Reason, attained true Notions in this, as well as other things; whilst the lazy and '''inconsiderate''' part of Men, making the far greater number, took up their Notions, by chance, from common Tradition, and vulgar Conceptions, without much beating their heads about them.
#* '''1709''', {{w|Aaron Hill}}, ''A Full and Just Account of the Present State of the Ottoman Empire,'' London: for the author, Chapter{{nbsp}}7, p.{{nbsp}}51,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004869666.0001.000]</sup>
#*: They Pray with Fervour and a fix’d, Attention, never turning like too many '''Inconsiderate''' ''Christians'' in our Noisy Churches, to behold what People pass behind them;
#* '''1777''', {{w|William Hutchinson (privateer)|William Hutchinson}}, ''A Treatise on Practical Seamanship,'' Liverpool: for the author, p.{{nbsp}}137,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004839280.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the most danger is from those '''inconsiderate''' and unexperienced pilots, who think a ship may be managed and conducted with equal ease and safety among shoals, as their own small vessels to which they have been accustomed,
#* '''1815''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''{{w|Emma (novel)|Emma}},'' London: John Murray, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}8, p.{{nbsp}}141,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/emmanovelinthree131aust/page/n147]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent, '''inconsiderate''' disposition as to money-matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them;
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Resulting from [[insufficient]] consideration.
#: {{syn|en|unconsidered}}
#* '''1593''', {{w|Gabriel Harvey}}, ''Pierces Supererogation or A New Prayse of the Old Asse,'' London: John Wolfe, p.{{nbsp}}175,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A02775.0001.001]</sup>
#*: I am ouer-ready to pardon young ouersights, and forgiue '''inconsiderate''' offences:
#* '''1665''', {{w|Robert Boyle}}, ''New Experiments and Observations Touching Cold,'' London: John Crook, The Authors Preface Introductory,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A29001.0001.001]</sup>
#*: And having given us this '''inconsiderate''' Description of Cold, they [the Classick Authors] commonly take leave of the subject, as if it deserved no further handling, then could be afforded it in a few Lines,
#* '''1748''', {{w|Samuel Richardson}}, ''{{w|Clarissa}},'' London, Volume{{nbsp}}7, Letter{{nbsp}}78, p.{{nbsp}}267,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004835420.0001.007]</sup>
#*: {{...}} to such a choice are many worthy women betrayed, by that false and '''inconsiderate''' notion, raised and propagated, no doubt, by the author of all delusion, ''That a reformed Rake makes the best husband.''
#* '''1791''', {{w|Charlotte Lennox}}, ''Hermione,'' London: William Lane, Volume{{nbsp}}4, Letter{{nbsp}}20, p.{{nbsp}}65,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004894051.0001.004]</sup>
#*: Do me not the injustice to imagine I now require any particulars to convince me of your innocence, and of my own '''inconsiderate''' conclusions.
#* '''1857''', {{w|Anthony Trollope}}, ''{{w|Barchester Towers}},''  Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, 1859, Volume{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}6, p.{{nbsp}}83,<sup>[https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=njp.32101013826951&view=1up&seq=89]</sup>
#*: Charlotte Stanhope did not in the least conceive that her new friend was a woman whom nothing could entrap into an '''inconsiderate''' marriage {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} Of too little value to be [[consider]]ed.
#: {{syn|en|inconsiderable|negligible|trifling}}
#* '''1655''', {{w|Edward Terry (author)|Edward Terry}}, ''A Voyage to East-India,'' London: J. Martin and J. Allestrye, pp.{{nbsp}}15-16,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A95658.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} when they had sold any one of their bullooks to us, for a little '''inconsiderate''' peece of brasse, if we did not presently knock him down, they would by the same call, make the poor creature break from us and run unto them again, and then there was no getting them out of their hands, but by giving them more brasse,
#* '''1682''', {{w|Aphra Behn}}, ''{{w|The Roundheads or, The Good Old Cause}},'' London: D. Brown ''et al.,'' Act{{nbsp}}III, Scene{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}27,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A27320.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} to wrest the Law to our convenience
#*: Is no small, '''inconsiderate''' Work?

====Related terms====
{{col3|en
|inconsiderately
|inconsiderateness
|inconsideration
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|not considerate of others}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|нетактичен}}, {{t+|bg|неделикатен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|inconsiderat}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|不體貼}}, {{t|cmn|不体贴|tr=bù tǐtiē}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hensynsløs}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harkitsematon}}, {{t+|fi|epäkohtelias}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sans-gêne}}, {{t+|fr|inconsidéré}}, {{t+|fr|égoïste}}
* German: {{t+|de|rücksichtslos}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|antuisceanach}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|思いやり|tr=おもいやりのない, omoiyari no nai|alt=思い遣りのない}}
* Latin: {{t|la|incōgitātus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|neusmooinaghtagh}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pakirara}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|hensynsløs}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|omsynslaus}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|بی‌ملاحظه|tr=bi-molâheze}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|nesimțit}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|невнима́тельный}} {{qualifier|к другим}}, {{t+|ru|неделика́тный}}, {{t+|ru|нетакти́чный}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|desconsiderado}}, {{t+|es|inconsiderado}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hänsynslös}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אָן אײַנזעעריש}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|tactless}}
* {{l|en|thoughtless}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=acdeeiinnorst|containerised|inter-diocesan}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form}}

# {{adj form of|it|inconsiderato||f|p}}

----

==Latin==

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|incōnsīderāte}}

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|incōnsīderāte}}

# {{inflection of|la|incōnsīderātus||voc|m|s}}

===References===
* {{R:L&S}}
* {{R:Elementary Lewis}}
* {{R:Gaffiot}}