==English==

===Etymology===
Recorded since 1340, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|incorrigible|lang=fro}} (1334), or directly from {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|incorrigibilis|lang=la||not to be corrected}}, from ''[[in-]]'' "not" + ''[[corrigere]]'' "to correct" + ''[[-ibilis]]'' "-able".

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈkɒrɨdʒɨb(ə)l/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ɪnˈkɔɹɨdʒɨb(ə)l/|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[defective]] and impossible to materially [[correct]] or set [[aright]].
#: ''The construction flaw is '''incorrigible'''; any attempt to amend it would cause a complete collapse.
# incurably [[depraved]]; not reformable.
#: ''His dark soul was too '''incorrigible''' to repent, even at his execution.
# [[impervious]] to correction by punishment or pain.
#: ''The imp is '''incorrigible''': his bottom is still red from his last spanking when he plans the next prank.
# [[unmanageable]].
#* {{quote-news
|year=2006
|date=December 7
|author=Michael White
|title=Breaking up is hard to do, even at the Treasury
|work=the Guardian
|url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2006/dec/07/politics.economy?INTCMP=SRCH
|page=
|passage=Gordon Brown may have his grumpy, Granita moments, but as a strategist he is an '''incorrigible''' optimist.}}
# [[determined]], [[unalterable]], hence impossible to improve upon.
#: ''The laws of nature and mathematics are '''incorrigible'''.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} [[incurable]].

====Quotations====
{{rfquote|lang=en}}

====Synonyms====
{{checksyns}}
* [[irredeemable]]
* [[irreparable]]
* [[uncorrectable]]

====Antonyms====
* [[corrigible]]

====Derived terms====
* [[incorrigibility]]
* [[incorrigibly]]

====Related terms====
* [[incorrect]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|defective and materially impossible to correct or set aright}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onverbeterbaar}}, {{t|nl|onherstelbaar}}
* German: {{t|de|unverbesserbar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неисправимый|tr=neispravímyj}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|incorregible}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|incurably depraved}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onverbeterlijk}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|unverbesserlich}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|impervious to correction by punishment or pain}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onverbeterlijk}}
* German: {{t|de|unverbesserlich}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|incorregible}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|unmanageable}}

{{trans-top|determined, unalterable}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onverbeterbaar}}, {{t|nl|onveranderlijk}}
* German: {{t|de|unverbesserlich}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|incorregible}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|incurable}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неизлечимый|tr=neizlečímyj}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|incorrigible}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An incorrigibly bad individual
#: ''The '''incorrigibles''' in the prison population are either lifers or habitual reoffenders

====Translations====
{{trans-top|an incorrigibly bad individual}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|onverbeterlijke|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|incorrigible|m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Recorded since 1334, from {{etyl|fro|fr}} {{term|incorrigible|lang=fro}} (1334), or directly from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|incorrigibilis|lang=la||not to be corrected}}, from ''[[in-]]'' "not" + ''[[corrigere]]'' "to correct" + ''[[-ibilis]]'' "-able".

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj|mf}}

# [[#English|incorrigible]]

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# An [[#English#noun|incorrigible]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Old French==

===Adjective===
{{head|fro|adjective|g=m|g2=f}}

# [[unpunished]]
#* Pource que nous ne vouloiens mie que telz fais demourast '''incorrigibles''' {{...}}
#*: Because we don't want such deeds to go unpunished

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|incorrigible}} {{qualifier|borrowed}}
* French: {{l|fr|incorrigible}}

===References===
* {{R:Godefroy}}

[[et:incorrigible]]
[[el:incorrigible]]
[[fr:incorrigible]]
[[ko:incorrigible]]
[[hy:incorrigible]]
[[io:incorrigible]]
[[id:incorrigible]]
[[lt:incorrigible]]
[[hu:incorrigible]]
[[ml:incorrigible]]
[[pl:incorrigible]]
[[ta:incorrigible]]
[[te:incorrigible]]
[[chr:incorrigible]]
[[vi:incorrigible]]
[[zh:incorrigible]]