==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|en|in|commodious}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|of a place occupied by people}} [[uncomfortable|Uncomfortable]] or [[inhospitable]], especially due to being [[cramped]].
#* '''1859''', [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''A Tale of Two Cities'', ch. 7:
#*: Tellson's Bank by Temple Bar . . . was very small, very dark, very ugly, very '''incommodious'''.
#* '''1909''', [[w:Henry James|Henry James]], "Venice" in ''Italian Hours'':
#*: The place is small and '''incommodious''', the pictures are out of sight and ill-lighted, the custodian is rapacious, the visitors are mutually intolerable, but the shabby little chapel is a palace of art.
#* '''2010''' June 15, Katherine Knorr, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/16/arts/16iht-dynasty.html Contemplating Art, and Its Sideshow]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 19 July 2012)</small>:
#*: In this they succeeded last week, despite menacing clouds and slick pavement, filling to capacity (and until past midnight) the 1937 building’s '''incommodious''' terrace with a mostly young and fairly international crowd.
# [[discomfort|Discomforting]], [[inconvenient]], or [[unsuitable]].
#* '''1781''', [[w:Samuel Johnson|Samuel Johnson]], "Savage" in ''Lives of the Poets'':
#*: He was sometimes so far compassionated by those who knew both his merit and distresses that they received him into their families, but they soon discovered him to be a very '''incommodious''' inmate.
#* '''1859''', [[w:George Eliot|George Eliot]], ''Adam Bede'', ch. 52:
#*: "What a silly you must be!" a comment which Tommy followed up by seizing Dinah with both arms, and dancing along by her side with '''incommodious''' fondness.
#* '''1865''', [[w:Charles Darwin|Charles Darwin]], ''The Movement and Habits of Climbing Plants'', ch. 1:
#*: A dense whorl of many leaves would apparently be '''incommodious''' for a twining plant.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|[[discomfort|Discomforting]], [[inconvenient]], or [[unsuitable]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|неудобен}}
{{trans-mid}}

{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:OneLook}}