==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|inferō}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-infer.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|inferr}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[cause]], [[inflict]] (something) {{term|upon}} or {{term|to}} someone. {{defdate|16th-18th c.}}
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', VI.8:
#*: faire Serena{{...}}fled fast away, afeard / Of villany to be to her '''inferd'''{{nb...}}.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[introduce]] (a subject) in speaking, writing etc.; to [[bring in]]. {{defdate|16th–18th c.}}
#* Shakespeare
#*: Full well hath Clifford played the orator, / '''Inferring''' arguments of mighty force.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To introduce (something) as a reasoned [[conclusion]]; to [[conclude]] by [[reason]]ing or [[deduction]], as from [[premise]]s or [[evidence]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''2010''', "Keep calm, but don't carry on", ''The Economist'', 7 Oct 2010:
#*: It is dangerous to '''infer''' too much from martial bluster in British politics: at the first hint of trouble, channelling Churchill is a default tactic for beleaguered leaders of all sorts.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[lead]] to (something) as a [[consequence]]; to [[imply]]. (Now often considered incorrect, especially with a person as subject.) {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#*{{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.3:
#*: These and a thousand like propositions, which concurre in this purpose, do evidently '''inferre''' {{transterm|sonnent|lang=frm}} some thing beyond patient expecting of death it selfe to be suffered in this life{{nb...}}.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[show]]; to [[manifest]]; to [[prove]].
#* Shakespeare
#*: This doth '''infer''' the zeal I had to see him.
#* Sir Thomas More
#*: The first part is not the proof of the second, but rather contrariwise, the second '''inferreth''' well the first.

====Usage notes====
There are two ways in which the word "infer" is sometimes used as if it meant "[[imply]]".  "[[implication|Implication]]" is done by a person when making a "[[statement]]", whereas "inference" is done to a proposition after it had already been made or assumed.  Secondly, the word "infer" can sometimes be used to mean "[[allude]]" or "[[express]]" in a suggestive manner rather than as a direct "statement".  Using the word "infer" in this sense is now generally considered incorrect. [http://www.askoxford.com/betterwriting/classicerrors/confused/?view=uk] [http://englishplus.com/grammar/00000232.htm]

====Synonyms====
* [[assume]], [[conclude]], [[deduce]], [[construe]]

====Related terms====
* [[inferable]]
* [[inference]]
* [[-ferous]] ([[-iferous]])

====Translations====
{{trans-top|(transitive) To conclude by reasoning or deduction, as from premises or evidence}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vyvodit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|concluderen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|déduire}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlussfolgern}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συμπεραίνω|tr=symperaíno|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kikövetkeztet}}, {{t|hu|dedukál}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|inferire}}, {{t+|it|dedurre}}, {{t+|it|concludere}}, {{t+|it|infliggere}}
* Latin: {{t|la|coniecto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hīkaro}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wnioskować}}, {{t|pl|dedukować}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|motiva}}, {{t+|ro|deduce}}, {{t+|ro|infera}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|inferir}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|sluta sig till}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|anlam çıkarmak}}, {{t+|tr|anlamına gelmek}}, {{t+|tr|anlamak}}, {{t+|tr|mana çıkarmak}}, {{t|tr|manasına gelmek}}, {{t|tr|sonucunu çıkarmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(intransitive) To draw a conclusion (by reasoning)}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vyvodit}}, {{t|cs|usoudit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|concluderen}}
* German: {{t+|de|schließen}}, {{t+|de|schlussfolgern}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συμπεραίνω|tr=symperaíno|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|concludere}}, {{t+|it|dedurre}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hīkaro}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wnioskować}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|conchide}}, {{t+|ro|concluziona}}, {{t+|ro|infera}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[делать]] [[вывод]]|tr=délatʹ vývod|impf}}, {{t|ru|[[сделать]] [[вывод]]|tr=sdélatʹ vývod|pf}}, {{t+|ru|заключать|impf|tr=zaključátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|заключить|pf|tr=zaključítʹ}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|inferir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To imply: to have as a necessary consequence}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|dopadnout}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπονοώ|tr=yponoó|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|υπαινίσσομαι|tr=ypainíssomai|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|implicare}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|inferir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|usoudit}}
* Finnish: [[päätellä]] (1,2), [[tehdä]] [[johtopäätös]] (1,2)
* French: {{t+|fr|déduire}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kikövetkeztet}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|álykta}} (1), að gefa í skyn (2)
* Japanese: [[推量]]する
* Norwegian: {{t|no|utlede}}, {{t+|no|konkludere}}, {{t+|no|slutte}} (1), {{t+|no|anta}}, {{t+|no|tenke}}, {{t|no|spekulere}} (2)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|argüir}}, {{t+|es|inferir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[finer#English|finer]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|īnfer}}

# {{inflection of|īnferō||2|s|pres|act|imp|lang=la}}

[[cs:infer]]
[[et:infer]]
[[el:infer]]
[[fr:infer]]
[[ko:infer]]
[[hy:infer]]
[[io:infer]]
[[kn:infer]]
[[hu:infer]]
[[mg:infer]]
[[ml:infer]]
[[my:infer]]
[[ja:infer]]
[[km:infer]]
[[pl:infer]]
[[ru:infer]]
[[simple:infer]]
[[sh:infer]]
[[fi:infer]]
[[ta:infer]]
[[te:infer]]
[[chr:infer]]
[[vi:infer]]
[[zh:infer]]