==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|frm|infinitif}}, from {{der|en|LL|infinitivus||unlimited, indefinite}}, from {{der|en|la|infinitus||unlimited, infinite}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɪnˈfɪnɪtɪv/|/ɪnˈfɪnətɪv/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|grammar}} the infinitive mood or mode (a [[grammatical mood]])
#* '''1847''', J. J. P. Le Brethon and L. Sandier, ''Guide to the French language; especially devised for persons who wish to study that language without the assistance of a teacher. the tenth edition, revised and corrected'', London, p.&nbsp;69:
#*: The MANNERS of acting, in grammar called ''modes'' or ''moods'', are four; '''''Infinitive''''', ''Imperative'', ''Indicative'', ''Subjunctive'' or ''Conjunctive''.
#* s.a., Henry Tindall, ''A grammar and vocabulary of the Namaqua-Hottentot language'', p.&nbsp;38:
#*: There are four moods, the '''Infinitive''', Imperative, Indicative, and Subjunctive. [...] the '''Infinitive''' is used to express a thing in a general manner.
# {{lb|en|grammar}} A non-[[finite]] verb form considered [[neutral]] with respect to inflection; depending on language variously found used with [[auxiliary verb]]s, in [[subordinate clause]]s, or acting as a [[gerund]], and often as the [[dictionary form]].
# {{lb|en|grammar}} A [[verbal noun]] formed from the infinitive of a verb.

====Hypernyms====
* {{sense|mood or mode}} {{l|en|grammatical mood}}, {{l|en|mood}}, {{l|en|mode}}
* {{sense|verb (form)}} {{l|en|verb}}

====Translations eritrea====
{{trans-top|a mood or mode of verbs}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|neurčitý způsob|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|infinitief|m}}, {{t+|nl|onbepaalde wijs|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|infinitivo}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|infinitivo|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Infinitiv|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|nafnháttur|m}}
* Latin: {{t|la|infinitivus|m}}, {{t|la|infinitivus modus|m}}, {{t|la|modus infinitivus|m}}, {{t|la|modus perpetuus|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|infinitiv}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|infinitiv|m}}, {{t|sv|obestämmt sätt}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pawatas}}, {{t|tl|panaganong pawatas}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|uninflected verb form}}
* Afrikaans: {{t+|af|infinitief}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|infinitiv}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|مَصْدَر|m}} {{qualifier|verbal noun}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|անորոշ դերբայ}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|infinitivu|m}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|інфініты́ў|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|нявызна́чаная фо́рма|f|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|дзеясло́ва}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|инфинити́в|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|infinitiu|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|不定詞|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|不定词|tr=bùdìngcí|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|infinitiv|m}}, {{t+|cs|neurčitek|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|infinitiv}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|infinitivo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tegevusnimi}}, {{t+|et|infinitiiv}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|navnháttur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|infinitiivi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|infinitif|m}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|infinitivo|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ინფინიტივი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Infinitiv|n|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απαρέμφατο|n}}
*: Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|ἀπαρέμφατος|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|שֵׁם פֹּעַל|m|tr=shem-pó'al|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|főnévi igenév}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|infinitivo}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|infinito|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|不定詞|tr=ふていし, futeishi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|инфинитив|sc=Cyrl}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|부정사}} ({{t+|ko|不定詞}})
* Latin: {{t|la|aparemphatum|n}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|nenoteiksme|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|bendratis|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|и́нфинитив|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|bee áhodoonííł saad}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|înfinnitif|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|infinitiv|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مصدر|tr=masdar|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezokolicznik|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|infinitivo|m}}, {{t+|pt|infinito|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|infinitiv|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|неопределённая фо́рма|f}} {{qualifier|глаго́ла}}, {{t+|ru|инфинити́в|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|инфинитив|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|infinitiv|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|neurčitok|m}}, {{t|sk|infinitív|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|nedoločnik|m}}, {{t|sl|ínfinitiv|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|infinitivo|m}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|pawatas}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|mastar}}, {{t+|tr|eylemlik}}, {{t+|tr|isim-fiil}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|інфініти́в|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|дієйме́нник|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|невизна́чена фо́рма|f|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|дієсло́ва}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|lối vô định}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אינפֿיניטיוו|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|gerund}}
* {{l|en|supine}}
* {{l|en|verb}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|grammar}} Formed with the infinitive.
#* '''1847''', J. J. P. Le Brethon and L. Sandier, ''Guide to the French language; especially devised for persons who wish to study that language without the assistance of a teacher. the tenth edition, revised and corrected'', London, p.&nbsp;70
#*: '''INFINITIVE''' MOOD or MANNER.<br />To Have, &nbsp; Avoir.
#* '''1858''', C. P. Mason, ''English grammar; including the principles of grammatical analysis'', London, p.&nbsp;32:
#*: In English there are four moods:–1. The '''Infinitive''' Mood. 2. The Indicative Mood. 3. the Imperative Mood. 4. The Subjunctive Mood.
# Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined.
#* Cunningham's Sermons (quoted in '''1823''', ''The Edinburgh Christian Instructor'', volume 23, page 328)
#*: {{...}} to search out in some higher region of '''infinitive''' space a spot where it was impossible for defilement to follow them {{...}}

[[Category:en:Parts of speech]]

----

==French==

===Adjective===
{{head|fr|adjective form}}

# {{feminine singular of|infinitif|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#English|infinitive]] [[clause]], same as {{m|fr|proposition infinitive}}

----

==Italian==

===Adjective===
{{head|it|adjective form|g=f}}

# {{feminine plural of|infinitivo|lang=it}}

----

==Latin==

===Noun===
{{la-noun-form|īnfīnītīve}}

# {{inflection of|īnfīnītīvus||voc|s|lang=la}}