==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|en|insipid|ity}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The condition of being [[insipid]]; [[insipidness]].
#* '''1735''', {{w|Alexander Pope}}, ''{{w|The Dunciad}}'', Book I, Notes Variorum, in ''The Works of Mr. Alexander Pope'', Volume 2, London: Lawton Gilliver, p. 98,<sup>[http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/007702591]</sup>
#*: {{w|Nahum Tate}} was Poet Laureate, a cold writer, of no invention, but sometimes translated tolerably when befriended by [[w:John Dryden|Mr. Dryden]]. In his second part of {{w|Absalom and Achitophel}} are above two hundred admirable lines together of that great hand, which strongly shine through the '''insipidity''' of the rest.
#* '''1811''', {{w|Jane Austen}}, ''{{w|Sense and Sensibility}}'', Chapter 34,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/21839/21839-h/21839-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Her complexion was sallow; and her features small, without beauty, and naturally without expression; but a lucky contraction of the brow had rescued her countenance from the disgrace of '''insipidity''', by giving it the strong characters of pride and ill nature.
# {{lb|en|countable}} Something that is [[insipid]]; an [[insipid]] utterance, sight, object, etc.
#* '''1857''', [[w:John Addington Symonds (physician)|John Addington Symonds]], ''The Principles of Beauty'', London: Bell & Daldy, Chapter 1, p. 39,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/principlesbeaut01symogoog]</sup>
#*: The lovers of beauty, preferring what is dull to what is offensive, will rather doze over the inanities and '''insipidities''' of a drowsy dilettantism, than choose to be irritated into wakeful attention by ugly contours, disproportioned figures, and ill-assorted colours, drawn and arranged after the hard and ignorant manner of the early Christian painters, and imbued with the childish symbolism of the dismal Middle Ages.
#* '''1913''', {{w|Isaac Goldberg}}, ''Sir Wm. S. Gilbert: A Study in Modern Satire'', Boston: Stratford, Chapter Four, p. 84,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sirwmsgilbertas00goldgoog]</sup>
#*: {{...}} [[w:W. S. Gilbert|Gilbert]] literally educated the English public away from the popular '''insipidities''' to which they had grown accustomed, up to a standard of taste to which all future writers of operetta must aspire.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|insipidness}}
* {{l|en|wearishness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|condition of being insipid}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|mdlost|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|insipiditate|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|insipidez|f}}, {{t+|es|desazón|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}