==English==

===Etymology===
Patterned after ''[[prequel]]'', as ''pre-'' meaning "before" and ''inter-'' meaning "between."

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|narratology|lang=en}} An [[installment]] in a [[series]] of works set [[chronological]]ly between two of its [[predecessor]]s.
# {{context|narratology|lang=en}} Any middle [[sequel]] with an earlier and a later installment. This usage may not be proper.

====Related terms====
* [[prequel]]
* [[sequel]]

====See also====
* [[midquel]]

====Quotations====
* '''1994''' March 27, Francis Muir, “It was the best of Trollope and the worst of Trollope”, <tt>rec.arts.books</tt>, ''Usenet''
*: There's room for something that is nether a prequel nor a sequel. What shall we call it? '''Interquel'''? Quelude?
* '''1996''' May 12, Allen J. Myerson, “Following Capt. McMurtry, Take by Take”, ''The New York Times''
*: Having written and filmed a "Lonesome Dove" sequel and prequel, come about 1997 Mr. McMurtry plans to finish an '''interquel''', "Comanche Moon," about his heroes' prime adulthood.
* '''2001''' March 20, Michael S. Schiffer, “Better off dead”, <tt>rec.arts.sf.written</tt>, ''Usenet''
*: Not strictly a sequel, of course. (More of an '''interquel'''.)
* '''2002''' January 15, Myuuni Hausen II, “Are there any subtitled versions of Inferno Road?”, <tt>uk.media.animation.anime</tt>, ''Usenet''
*: Basically this part was a filler story which was set somewhere within the continuity of the first part - an "'''interquel'''" if you must.
* '''2002''' October 4, Kirsten Gilson, “TLK 1.5 to be released theatrically”, <tt>alt.fan.lion-king</tt>, ''Usenet''
*: According to Animagic''...''the '''interquel''' is being planned to be released theatrically.
* '''2004''' November 7, Henry Kisor, “‘The Godfather Returns’ turns out to be a worthy ‘'''interquel'''’”, ''Chicago Sun-Times''
*: The sparkling novel is neither sequel nor prequel but what might be called an "'''interquel'''," for it fills some of the chronological gaps
* '''2006''' June 25, quoted by Simon Carless (June 27), “Writing Up Trilby's Notes”, ''Game Set Watch'', at <tt>www.gamesetwatch.com</tt> [http://www.gamesetwatch.com/2006/06/writing_up_trilbys_notes_1.php]
*: The game is a direct sequel to 5 Days a Stranger and an '''interquel''' between 5DaS and 7 Days a Skeptic
* '''2007''' July 23, John Sutherland, “Here Comes Stubble as the Wizard Grows Up”, ''The Evening Standard (London)''
*: Another Potter book would take him over that edge into the un-narratable. Unless, of course, as with Charlie Higson's young James Bond, the author is persuaded to do a prequel, or an '''interquel'''.

====Related terms====
* [[midquel]]
* [[prequel]]
* [[sequel]]
* [[threequel]]

[[io:interquel]]