==English==

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*leǵ-}}
Borrowed from {{bor|en|la|intellectio|intellectiō, intellectiōnem}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The [[mental]] [[activity]] or [[process]] of [[grasp]]ing with the [[intellect]]; [[apprehension]] by the [[mind]]; [[understanding]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1892|chapter=Notes Left Over: Emerson's Books|title=Complete Prose Works|author=Walt Whitman|authorlink=Walt Whitman|url=https://www.gutenberg.org/files/8813/8813-h/8813-h.htm|passage=These books will fill, and well fill, certain stretches of life {{...|, certain stages of development—are, (like the tenets or theology the author of them preach'd when a young man,) unspeakably serviceable and precious as a stage.}} But in old or nervous or solemnest or dying hours, when one needs the impalpably soothing and vitalizing influences of abysmic Nature, or its affinities in literature or human society, and the soul resents the keenest mere '''intellection''', they will not be sought for.}}
#* '''1953''', Samuel Beckett, ''Watt''
#*: None of Mr. Knott's gestures could be called characteristic, unless perhaps that which consisted in the simultaneous obturation of the facial cavities, the thumbs in the mouth, the forefingers in the ears, the little fingers in the nostrils, the third fingers in the eyes and the second fingers, free in a crisis to promote '''intellection''', laid along the temples.
#* '''1993''', M. J. Edwards, "A Portrait of Plotinus," ''The Classical Quarterly'', New Series, vol. 43, no. 2, p. 487:
#*: The purpose of philosophy is to unite oneself with the objects of the intellect, and even at last with the One that is above all '''intellection'''.
# {{lb|en|countable}} A [[particular]] [[act]] of grasping by means of the intellect.
#* '''1934''', R. V. Feldman, "The Metaphysics of Wonder and Surprise," ''Philosophy'', vol. 9, no. 34, p. 210:
#*: Our senses, our instincts, our '''intellections''' are all instruments of adaptation.
# {{lb|en|countable}} The [[mental]] [[content]] of an act of grasping by means of the intellect, as a [[thought]], [[idea]], or [[conception]].
#* '''1996''', Ananya, "Training in Indian Classical Dance: A Case Study," ''Asian Theatre Journal'', vol. 13, no. 1, p. 77:
#*: When Banerjee talks about the artist's thinking about the music, she is not referring to an '''intellection''' about the mechanics of technique.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|intellect}}

===References===
* {{R:Lexico}}
* {{R:OneLook}}