==English==

===Etymology===
{{der|en|la|intonatus}}, past participle of {{m|la|intonare||to thunder, resound}}.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|intransitive|dated}} To [[intone]] or [[recite]] (words), ''especially'' [[emphatic]]ally or in a [[chant]]ing manner.
#* '''1840''', {{w|Thomas De Quincey}}, “Theory of Greek Tragedy” in ''Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine'', Volume 47, No. 292, February 1840, p.{{nbsp}}153,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/006061455]</sup>
#*: {{...}} we have no doubt whatever that the recitation of verse on the stage was of an artificial and semi-musical character. It was undoubtedly much more ''sustained'' and '''intonated''' with a slow and measured stateliness, which, whilst harmonizing it with the other circumstances of solemnity in Greek tragedy, would bring it nearer to music.
#* '''1911''', Charles Clinton Nourse, ''Autobiography'', Cedar Rapids, Iowa: for the author, Chapter{{nbsp}}2,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/40777/40777-h/40777-h.htm]</sup>
#*: His manner on the platform and his speech were those of a drony, sing-song, '''intonating''' Episcopal minister, devoid of life and spirit.
#* '''1985''', David H. Rothman, ''The Silicon Jungle'', New York: Ballantine, Chapter 10, p.{{nbsp}}171,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/54360/54360-h/54360-h.htm]</sup>
#*: With actorlike polish he '''intonated''' through the third page {{...}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|dated}} To [[say]] or [[speak]] with a certain [[intonation]].
#* '''1845''', {{w|Sheridan Le Fanu}}, ''The Cock and the Anchor'', Dublin: William Curry, Jun., Volume 1, Chapter 6, p.{{nbsp}}74,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/cockanchorbeingc01lefa]</sup>
#*: “Is this Mr. O’Connor’s chamber?” inquired a voice of peculiar richness, '''intonated''' not unpleasingly with a certain melodious modification of the brogue {{...}}
#* '''1858''', {{w|Nathaniel Hawthorne}}, ''Passages from the French and Italian Note-Books of Nathaniel Hawthorne'', London: Strahan, 1871, Volume 1, “Rome,” p.{{nbsp}}274,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/passagesfromfren01hawt]</sup>
#*: Miss Bremer talked plentifully in her strange manner—good English enough for a foreigner, but so oddly '''intonated''' and accented, that it is impossible to be sure of more than one word in ten.
#* '''1882''', ''Road Scrapings: Coaches and Coaching'', London: Tinsley Brothers, Chapter 6, p.{{nbsp}}92,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/45372/45372-h/45372-h.htm]</sup>
#*: {{...}} an older man, attired in gray, with hair to match, was busily engaged at one end of the room packing a quantity of small cases into a larger one, and continuing to hold converse with himself by means of the monosyllable “yes,” differently '''intonated''', at intervals of half-a-minute, “y-e-s—y-e-s.”
#* '''1920''', Paul Klapper, ''Teaching Children to Read'', New York: Appleton, Chapter 8, p.{{nbsp}}118,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20180846/html.php]</sup>
#*: {{...}} another child of foreign parentage '''intonates''' his English with the cadence peculiar to the language of his parents.
# {{lb|en|transitive|dated}} To [[intone]] or [[vocalize]] (musical notes); to sound the tones of the [[musical scale]]; to practise the [[sol-fa]].<ref>John S. Adams, ''Adams’ New Musical Dictionary'', New York: S.T. Gordon, 1865, p.{{nbsp}}121: “Intonate. To sound the tones of the scale; to practise [[solmisation|solmization]]; to read in a musical manner.”<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100695670]</sup></ref>
#* '''1776''', {{w|John Hawkins (author)|John Hawkins}}, ''A General History of the Science and Practice of Music'', Volume 2, Book 4, Chapter 3 p.{{nbsp}}431,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/generalhistoryof02byuhawk]</sup>
#*: The composer so ordered it, that the king’s part should be one holding note, in a pitch proper for a [[countertenor|Contratenor]], for that was the king’s voice. Nor was he inattentive to other particulars, for he contrived his own part, which was the Bass, in such a manner, that every other note he sung was an octave to that of the king, which prevented his majesty from deviating from that single note which he was to '''intonate'''.
#* '''1844''', ''The order for morning and evening prayer, and the Litany : with plain-tune, according to the use of the United Church of England and Ireland'', London: J. Burns,Editor’s Preface,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100242021]</sup>
#*: A comma or colon was '''intonated''' by the fall of a minor third from the key-note on the ultimate or penultimate and ultimate syllables of the clause {{...}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[thunder]] or to utter in a [[sonorous]] or [[thunderous]] voice.<ref>''Oxford English Dictionary'', 2nd ed., 1989.</ref><ref>''An American Dictionary of the English Language'', by [[w:Noah Webster|Noah Webster]], 1828.</ref><ref>{{w|Nathan Bailey}}, ''Universal Etymological Dictionary'', London: T. Cox, 1736, 2nd edition: I<small>NTONATE</small>, to thunder or make a rumbling noise.</ref>
#* '''1543''', {{w|Thomas Beccon}}, ''A pleasaunt newe nosegaye full of many godly and swete floures'', London: John Gough, Dedicatory epistle,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A07010.0001.001]</sup>
#*: But agaynst all such as contemne the holy scriptures & cast awaye the law of theyr LORDE God, wyllynge neither to enter them selues, nor yet suffryng other, christ '''intonateth''' and thonderethe on this manner {{...}}
#* '''1663''', {{w|Edward Waterhouse (FRS)|Edward Waterhouse}}, ''Fortescutus Illustratus'', London: Thomas Dicas, Chapter 1, p.{{nbsp}}30,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A65237.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I hold a Prince ought not wholly to neglect Military Affairs, but verse himself in, and accustome himself to them, that he may '''intonate''' fear into Neighbours {{...}}
#* '''19th century''', {{w|Sumner Lincoln Fairfield}}, “Ode to Deity” in ''Poems'', New York: E. Bliss and E. White ''et al.'', p.{{nbsp}}159,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/001422476]</sup>
#*: And o’er the sphere the forked lightning flies,
#*: And '''intonating''' thunders shake the skies.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|intonation}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Italian==

===Verb===
{{head|it|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|it|intonare||2|p|pres|indc}}
# {{inflection of|it|intonare||2|p|impr}}
# {{feminine plural of|it|intonato}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|it|a=aeinnott|a tentoni}}

[[Category:Italian past participle forms]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|intonāte}}

# {{inflection of|la|intonō||2|p|pres|actv|impr}}