{{wikipedia}}
{{see|Ísrael|Israël|İsrael}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ĭz'rāəl|ĭz'rēəl}}; {{IPA|/ˈɪzreɪəl/|/ˈɪzriəl/}}; {{SAMPA|/"IzreI@l/|/"Izri@l/}}

===Etymology===
Originally from {{He.}} ''[[ישראל]]'', the name "Israel" is rooted in the [[w:Hebrew Bible|Hebrew Bible]], where [[Jacob]] is renamed Israel after wrestling with a mysterious adversary. This adversary was "a man", and later "God" according to [[w:Genesis (Old Testament)|Genesis]] 32:24–30; or "the angel of Esau", according to [[w:Book of Hosea|Hosea]] 12:4. The biblical nation fathered by Jacob was then called "The Children of Israel" or the "Israelites". Citizens of the modern State of Israel are referred to, in English, as "Israelis".

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# The State of Israel, a modern country in the [[Middle East]], at the eastern [[shore]] of the [[Mediterranean]].
# The Land of Israel, a region that is roughly coextensive with the State of Israel.
# A nation that occupied roughly the same area in ancient times.
# An ancient kingdom that occupied the northern part of this area, as distinct from [[Judah]].
# {{given name|male}}.
# {{context|biblical}} A name given to [[Jacob]] (Genesis 32:28).
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Genesis|32|28}}
#*: And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but '''Israel''': for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.
# The [[Jew]]s, taken collectively.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|State of Israel}} the Jewish State, the State of Israel
* {{sense|Land of Israel}} [[Canaan]], the [[Holy Land]], the Land of Israel, the [[Levant]], [[Palestine]]
* {{sense|the Jews}} the Children of Israel

====Usage notes====
* {{sense|Land of Israel}} The use of the name {{term||Israel}} to refer to the region is sometimes seen as politically or emotionally charged; indeed, this is true of all terms for this region.

====Derived terms====
* [[Israeli]]
* [[Israelite]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the nation}}
* Albanian: [[Izraeli]]
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[إسرائيل]]}} (’isra’íl)
* Armenian: [[Իսրայել]] (Israyel)
* Belarusian: [[Ізраіль]] {{m}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|Izrael|m}}
* [[Breton]]: {{t-|br|Israel|xs=Breton}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|Израел|m|tr=Izrael|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t-|ca|Israel|m}}
* Chinese: [[以色列]] (Yǐsèliè)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|Izrael|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Izrael}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|Israel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Israël}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|Israelo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: [[Iisrael]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Israel}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Israël}}
* German: {{t+|de|Israel}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Ισραήλ|n|tr=israíl|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ישראל|m|alt=יִשְׂרָאֵל|tr=yiśra'ēl|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Izrael}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Ísrael}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|Israel|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|Israel|xs=Interlingua}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|Iosrael|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Israele}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|イスラエル|tr=isuraeru|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Kannada]]: [[ಇಸ್ರೇಲ್]]
* [[Livonian]]: [[Izraēl]], [[Jūdõmō]]
* [[Macedonian]]: [[Израел]] {{m}}
* Maltese: [[Iżrael]]
* [[Marathi]]: [[इस्रायल]] (isrāyal)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|Israel}}
* [[Old Slavonic]]: [[Їздраил҄ь]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[اسرائیل]]}} (Esrâ’il)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Izrael}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Israel}}
* [[Pushto]]: {{PSchar|[[اسرايل]]}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|Israel|n}}
* Russian: [[Израиль]] (Izráil’) {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[Израел]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[Izrael]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Izrael|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Israel}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Israel}}
* [[Tatar]]: {{t-|tt|İsrael|xs=Tatar}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|İsrail}}
* Ukrainian: [[Ізраїль]] (Izrajil’) {{m}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|اسرائیل|sc=ur-Arab|xs=Urdu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the world]]
* [[Irving]]

[[Category:Countries]]

----

==Finnish==
{{wikipedia|lang=fi}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-noun|proper=true}}

# [[#English|Israel]]

[[Category:fi:Countries]]

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|de|proper noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|Israel]]

====Derived terms====
* [[israelisch]]
* [[israelitisch]]
* [[Israelit]]
* [[Israelitin]]
* [[Israeli]]

[[Category:de:Countries]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|no|proper noun|g=g}}

# [[#English|Israel]]

====Derived terms====
* [[israeler]]
* [[israelsk]]

[[Category:no:Countries]]

----

==Romanian==
{{wikipedia|lang=ro}}

===Etymology===
{{Hebr.|ro}} {{Hebr|[[ישראל]]}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[is.ra.el]|lang=ro}}

===Proper noun===
{{infl|ro|proper noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|Israel]]

====Declension====
{{ro-noun-inv|gend=n|def=Israelul|gd=Israelului}}

[[Category:ro:Countries]]

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|sv|proper noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|Israel]]

[[Category:sv:Countries]]

[[bg:Israel]]
[[da:Israel]]
[[de:Israel]]
[[et:Israel]]
[[el:Israel]]
[[es:Israel]]
[[fr:Israel]]
[[fy:Israel]]
[[gl:Israel]]
[[ko:Israel]]
[[hi:Israel]]
[[lt:Israel]]
[[li:Israel]]
[[hu:Israel]]
[[no:Israel]]
[[pl:Israel]]
[[pt:Israel]]
[[ru:Israel]]
[[sr:Israel]]
[[fi:Israel]]
[[sv:Israel]]
[[tt:Israel]]
[[vi:Israel]]
[[tr:Israel]]
[[zh:Israel]]