{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "it"}}
==English==

{{rank|his|with|is|13|it|for|as|had}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|hit|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}} {{enPR|ĭt}}, {{IPA|/ɪt/}}, {{SAMPA|/It/}}
* {{audio|en-us-it.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɪt}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}} {{enPR|ət}}, {{IPA|/ət/}}, {{SAMPA|/@t/}}
* {{homophones|at}} {{qualifier|unstressed}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron|subjective and objective|it|reflexive and intensive|itself|possessive adjective and noun|its}}

# The third-person singular personal pronoun used to refer to a non-human entity, to an inanimate thing with no or unknown sex or gender.
#: ''Put '''it''' over there.''
#: ''Take each day as '''it''' comes.''
# The third-person singular personal pronoun used to refer to a human entity of unknown sex or gender.
#: ''She took the baby and held '''it''' in her arms.''
# Used to refer to oneself when identifying oneself, often on the phone, but not limited to this situation.
#: '''''It''''s me. John.''
# The impersonal pronoun, used without referent as the subject of an impersonal verb or statement.
#: '''''It''' is nearly 10 o’clock.''
#: '''''It'''’s very cold today.''
#: '''''It'''’s lonely without you.''
# The impersonal pronoun, used as a placeholder for a delayed subject, or less commonly, object.
#: '''''It''' is easy to see how she would think that.''
#: ''I find '''it''' odd that you would say that.''
#: ''He saw to '''it''' that everyone would vote for him.''

: ''See'' [[Wiktionary:Inflection Templates]] for other personal pronouns.

====Quotations====
{{seecites}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Derived terms}}
* [[buy it]]
* [[do it]]
* [[move it]]
* [[that's it]]
* [[watch it]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|subject — inanimate thing}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[dit]]
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|ai|xs=Albanian}}, {{t+|sq|ajo|xs=Albanian}}
* Armenian: [[դա]] (da)
* Bulgarian: [[той]] / [[тя]] / [[то]] (toj/tja/to) ''m/f/n''
* Chinese: [[这]], [[那]] (nà, nèi), [[它]] (tā)
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [[ev]] {{m}}, [[hi]] {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|ono}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|to}}
* Dutch: [[het]] (''for neutral nouns''), [[hij]] (''for gendered nouns'')
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĝi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|se}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ce}}, {{t+|fr|il}}
* Georgian: [[ის]] (is)
* German: {{t+|de|es}}
* Greek: [[το]], [[αυτό]] (sometimes not translated)
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|זה|sc=Hebr}}, {{t-|he|זאת|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|az}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|það}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[lo]] / [[illo]]
* Irish: {{t+|ga|sé|xs=Irish}} {{qualifier|m conjunctive}}, {{t-|ga|é|xs=Irish}} {{qualifier|m disjunctive}}; {{t-|ga|sí|xs=Irish}} {{qualifier|f conjunctive}}, {{t-|ga|í|xs=Irish}} {{qualifier|f disjunctive}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[esso]] / [[essa]] / [[lo]] / [[la]]
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|それ|tr=soré|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[그것]] (geugeot)
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ມັນ|tr=man|sc=Laoo|xs=Lao}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|id}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|hu|m|xs=Maltese}}, {{t-|mt|hi|f|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Novial]]: [[lu]], [[lum]]
* Old English: {{t-|ang|hit|xs=Old English}}, {{t+|ang|þæt|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[او]]}} (u)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|to|n}}
* Portuguese: [[ele]] / [[ela]] / [[o]] / [[a]]
* Russian: [[он]] / [[она]] / [[оно]] (on/oná/onó) ''m/f/n''; [[это]] (éto)
* [[Sardinian]]: [[issu]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[e]] ''m non-emphatic'', [[esan]] ''m emphatic'', [[i]] ''f non-emphatic'', [[ise]] ''f emphatic''
* [[Sicilian]]: [[issu]]
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|ono}}
* Spanish: [[ello]], [[él]], [[ella]], [[eso]], (often not translated)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|den|c}}, {{t+|sv|det|n}}
* [[Taos]]: [[ą́wąną]]
* Thai: {{Thai|[[มัน]]}} (man)
* [[West Frisian]]: [[it#West Frisian|it]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[dit]]
* Bulgarian: [[него]] / [[го]] (nego/go) ''(m, n [[accusative case]])''; [[на него]] / [[нему]] / [[му]] (na nego/nemu/mu) ''(m,n [[dative case]])''; [[нея]] / [[я]] (neja/ja) ''(f [[accusative case]])''; [[на нея]] / [[ней]] / [[ѝ]] (na neja/nej/i) ''(f [[dative case]])''
* Chinese: [[这]], [[那]] (nà, nèi), [[它]] (tā), [[之]] (zhī)
* [[Cornish]]:
*: Kernewek Kemmyn: [['n]] {{m}}, [['s]] {{f}}
* Czech: [[toho]], [[tomu]], [[to]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|het}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĝin|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish:
** {{italbrac|in active clauses: }}
**: [[sen#Finnish|sen]] (''accusative'')
**: [[sitä]] (''partitive'')
** {{italbrac|in passive clauses: }}
**: [[se]] (''accusative'')
**: [[sitä]] (''partitive'')
* French: {{t+|fr|le|m}}, {{t+|fr|la|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|es}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|το|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|az}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|é|m|xs=Irish}}, {{t-|ga|í|f|xs=Irish}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|それ|tr=soré|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: [[그것]] (geugeot)
* Lao: {{t-|lo|ມັນ|tr=man|sc=Laoo|xs=Lao}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|id}}
* [[Novial]]: [[lu]], [[lum]]
* Old English: {{t-|ang|hit|xs=Old English}}, {{t+|ang|þæt|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[او را]]}} (u rā)
* Russian: [[его]] (jevó, ''m,n [[genitive case]]''), [[ему]] (jemú, ''m,n [[dative case]]''), [[его]] (jevó, ''m,n [[accusative case]]''), [[им]] (im, ''m,n [[instrumental case]]''), [[нём]] (njom, ''m,n [[prepositional case]]'');
*: [[её]] (jejó, ''f [[genitive case]]''), [[ей]] (jej, ''f [[dative case]]''), [[её]] (jejó, ''f [[accusative case]]''), [[ею]] / [[ей]] (jéju/jej, ''f [[instrumental case]]''), [[ней]] (njej, ''f [[prepositional case]]'')
* Spanish: [[le]] / [[la]] / [[lo]] ''m/f/n'', [[ello]], [[eso]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|den|c}}, {{t+|sv|det|n}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[มัน]]}} (man)
* [[West Frisian]]: [[it#West Frisian|it]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|subject of impersonal statement}}
* Finnish: ''(not used)''
* French: {{t+|fr|il}}
* German: {{t+|de|es}}
* {{trreq|Hebrew}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|sé|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Novial]]: ''(not used)''
* Portuguese: ''(not used)''
* Spanish: ''(not used)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|det}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
* {{ttbc|Vietnamese}}: [[nó]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
{{rel-top3|See also}}
* [[her]]
* [[him]]
* [[them]]
* [[us]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[you]]
* [[he]]
* [[I]]
* [[me]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[she]]
* [[they]]
* [[we]]
{{rel-bottom}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''It''' ''or'' '''It.''' ''or'' '''it'''

# {{i|language}} [[Italian]].
# [[Italy]].

====Derived terms====
* [[gin and it]], [[gin-and-It]]

====See also====
* [[IT]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|it}}
* [[ti]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English third person pronouns]]
[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Azeri==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Turkic|it||ït|lang=az}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|az|noun|Cyrillic spelling|ит}}

# [[dog]]

===Verb===
{{infl|az|verb form|Cyrillic spelling|ит}}

# [[get lost]] {{i|imperative}}

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Turkic|it||ït|lang=crh}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|crh|noun}}

# [[dog]]

====Synonyms====
* [[köpek]]

====References====
{{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

----

==Latin==
===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|it}}

# {{conjugation of|[[eo#Latin|eō]]||3|s|pres|act|ind}}

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Turkic|it||ït|lang=tr}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|tr|noun}}

# [[dog]]
# a word for [[aspersion]]

====Usage notes====
It's generally used in countryside when meant "dog". But if the dog isn't loved, it can be said "it" for it, too.

===Verb===
{{infl|tr|verb form}}

# [[push]] {{i|imperative}}

----

==West Frisian==

===Article===
{{infl|fy|article|g=n}}

# [[the]] (the definite article that is placed before neuter nouns. Non-neuter (common gender) nouns take the article ''[[de]]'').

===Pronoun===
{{infl|fy|pronoun|personal pronoun}}

# [[#English|it]]: the third person singular, referring to something neutral, genderless.

[[az:it]]
[[br:it]]
[[de:it]]
[[et:it]]
[[es:it]]
[[fr:it]]
[[gl:it]]
[[ko:it]]
[[io:it]]
[[it:it]]
[[kk:it]]
[[ky:it]]
[[ku:it]]
[[la:it]]
[[lt:it]]
[[hu:it]]
[[nl:it]]
[[ja:it]]
[[no:it]]
[[pl:it]]
[[pt:it]]
[[ru:it]]
[[sg:it]]
[[simple:it]]
[[fi:it]]
[[sv:it]]
[[ta:it]]
[[te:it]]
[[th:it]]
[[vi:it]]
[[tr:it]]
[[uk:it]]
[[vo:it]]
[[zh:it]]