{{also|ITS|it's|its'|'its}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|it's}} {{qualifier|possessive form, obsolete or nonstandard}}

===Etymology===
Equivalent to {{compound|it|s|lang=en}}. From the earlier form {{m|en|it's}} ({{compound|it|'s|lang=en}}), which is now considered nonstandard. Began to displace {{m|en|his}} as the possessive of the neuter pronoun in the Middle English period; had fully displaced it by the 1700s.<ref>{{R:Etymonline}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɪts/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-its.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪts|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|it's}}

===Determiner===
{{head|en|determiner|cat2=possessive determiners}}

# Belonging to [[it]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, I.43:
#*: The manner wherewith our Lawes assay to moderate the foolish and vaine expences of table-cheare and apparell, seemeth contrarie to '''it's''' end.
#* '''1751''', G. Burnett, trans. Thomas More, ''Utopia'':
#*: since I have been at the Pains to write it, if he consents to '''it's''' being published I will follow my Friend's Advice, and chiefly yours.
#* '''1763''', ''Authorized King James Version of the Bible'', Oxford Standard Text, [[s:Bible (King James)/Leviticus#Chapter 25|Leviticus 25:5]]:
#*: That which groweth of '''its''' own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not reap, neither gather the grapes of thy vine undressed: for it is a year of rest unto the land. {{qualifier|originally "of it own accord" in the 1611 first edition}}
#* '''1813''', Jane Austen, ''Pride and Prejudice'':
#*: They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and, while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehensions of meeting '''its''' owner returned.
#* '''1989''', Jasper Becker and John Gittings, ''The Guardian'', 5 Jun 1989:
#*: The Chinese government is at war with '''its''' own people.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|belonging to it}}
* American Sign Language: {{t|ase|FlatB@Chesthigh-FingerUp}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|яго́|m|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|яго́ны|m|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|common, colloquial}}, {{t|be|яе́|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|свой|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|when referring to the subject of the sentence}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jeho}}
* Danish: {{t|da|dens|c}}, {{t|da|dets|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zijn|m|n}}, {{t+|nl|haar|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ĝia}}, {{t|eo|ties}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|son|m}}, {{t+|fr|sa|f}}, {{t+|fr|ses|p}}
* German: {{t+|de|sein|m|n}}, {{t+|de|ihr|f}}
* Greenlandic: {{t|kl|uuma}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|kona}}, {{t|haw|kāna}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|-a}}, {{t|hu|-e}}, {{t|hu|-ja}}, {{t|hu|-je}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þess|n}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|olua}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|su}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kalmyk: {{t|xal|энүнә}}, {{t|xal|терүнә}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|suus}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|dens}}, {{t|no|dets}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|lun}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|seu}}, {{t+|pt|sua}}, {{t+|pt|dele|m}}, {{t+|pt|dela|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|его́|m|n|tr=jevó}}, {{t+|ru|её|f}}, {{t+|ru|свой}} {{qualifier|when referring to the subject of the sentence}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|jogo}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|su|s}}, {{t+|es|sus|p}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dess}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|onun}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|його́|m|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|uk|її́|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|uk|свій|sc=Cyrl}} {{qualifier|when referring to the subject of the sentence}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|onik}}, {{t|vo|ona}}
* Zulu: possessive concord + {{t|zu|khe|alt=-khe|c1}}, {{t|zu|wo|c3|alt=-wo}}, {{t|zu|lo|c5|alt=-lo}}, {{t|zu|so|c7|alt=-so}}, {{t|zu|yo|c9|alt=-yo}}, {{t|zu|lo|c11|alt=-lo}}, {{t|zu|bo|c14|alt=-bo}}, {{t|zu|kho|c15|c17|alt=-kho}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|en|pronoun|cat2=possessive pronouns|cat3=third person pronouns}}

# The one (or ones) belonging to it. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* '''1645''', Philip Wharton, 4th Baron Wharton, [http://books.google.se/books?id=D8o9AAAAcAAJ&pg=PA158 Letter to Ferdinando Fairfax], 6 February 1645:
#*: [...] both Houses have resolved to rob the North of a good friend of '''its''' and yours.
#* '''2007''' — Ian Austen, [http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/01/technology/01ebay.html "Canadian Court Opens Up eBay Data to Tax Agency"], ''New York Times'', October 1, 2007:
#*: EBay Canada argued in court that the data sought by tax collectors was [''sic''] not '''its''' to give.
#* '''1917''' — Charles Henry Taylor, [http://www.archive.org/stream/historyofboardof02tayl#page/1259/mode/1up ''History of the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago'' Vol.2 p.1259]:
#*: ...the Board of Trade of Chicago can at least feel that it has played its part manfully and patriotically, and that no act of '''its''' has stood in the way of National victory.

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|that which belongs to it}}
* American Sign Language: {{t|ase|FlatB@Chesthigh-FingerUp}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jeho}}
* Danish: {{t|da|dens|c}}, {{t|da|dets|n}}
* Dutch: {{t-check|nl|[[ervan|het]] ... [[ervan]]}} <!-- was "[[ervan|het]] ... [[ervan]]" - assumed sum-of-parts; if an idiom, use {{t}} instead of {{t-SOP}}. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->, {{t-check|nl|de zijne}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ĝia}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|le sien|m}}, {{t+|fr|la sienne|f}}, {{t+|fr|les siens|m-p}}, {{t+|fr|les siennes|f-p}}
* German: {{t+|de|sein|m}}, {{t+|de|ihr|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δικός|alt=δικός του|m}}, {{t|el|δικιά|alt=δικιά του|f}}, {{t|el|δική|alt=δική του|f}}, {{t|el|δικό|alt=δικό του|n}}, {{t|el|δικοί|alt=δικοί του|m-p}}, {{t|el|δικές|alt=δικές του|f-p}}, {{t|el|δικά|alt=δικά του|n-p}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|övé}}, {{t+|hu|azé}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|olua}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|a}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|suus}}, {{t+|la|eius}}, {{t+|la|huius}}, {{t|la|illius}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|lun}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jego}}, {{t+|pl|jej}}, {{t+|pl|swój}}, {{t+|pl|ów}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|seu}}, {{t+|pt|dele|m}}, {{t+|pt|dela|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|его́|m|n|tr=jevó}}, {{t+|ru|её|f}}, {{t+|ru|свой}} {{qualifier|when referring to the subject of the sentence}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|suyo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dess}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|onun}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Usage notes====
* ''Its'' is now distinguished from {{m|en|it's}} (a [[contraction]] of "it is" or "it has"). For example, '''''It's''' going to rain'' is equivalent to '''''It is''' going to rain'', and '''''It's''' got three wheels'' is equivalent to '''''It has''' three wheels.''
* Like ''it'', ''its'' is usually avoided when referring to humans. ''Its'' is commonly used with animals when the gender is unknown or unimportant. With humans, {{m|en|person}} is used for a person whose gender is unknown or to refer to something that could be possessed by either gender, {{m|en|body}} or {{m|en|corpse}} is often used to refer to a dead person, and {{m|en|figure}}, {{m|en|shape}}, and {{m|en|silhouette}} are often used to refer to what someone sees as a person but can't see clearly enough to determine an identity or gender, e.g. ''The '''figure''' moved behind a bush, but Josh could see '''its''' shadow from the moonlight.''
* {{rank/test|72|en-gut}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|their}}

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun plural form}}

# {{plural of|it|lang=en}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|'tis|-ist|IST|STI|TIS|is't|ist|sit|tis}}

[[Category:English basic words]]