==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-uk-macrolanguage.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{term|macro}} + {{term|language}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|computing|lang=en}} A system for defining and processing [[macro]]s.
#* '''2006''', G. Brent Hall and Michael G. Leahy, "Internet-Based Spacial Decision Support Using Open Source Tools", Chapter XIII of Shivanand Balram and Suzana Dragićević, ''Collaborative Geographic Information Systems'', Idea Group Inc., ISBN 9781591408468, [http://books.google.com/books?id=mHIU5BlYTCwC&pg=PA238&dq=macrolanguage page 238]:
#*: Much of the emphasis in spatial decision-support research continues to focus on developing tools, typically using '''macrolanguage''' scripting exclusively or scripting linked to compilable programming and commercial geographic information system software, such as workstation Arc/Info and desktop ArcGIS.

=====Usage notes=====
* This is more commonly written as two words: {{term||macro language}}.

===Etymology 2===
From {{prefix|macro|language}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|linguistics|lang=en}} A [[language]] consisting of widely varying [[dialect]]s, or a group of very closely related languages.
#* '''1993''', in ''La Trobe working papers in linguistics'', volumes 6-8,<sup >[http://books.google.com/books?id=LxMIAQAAIAAJ ]</sup> page 161:
#*: A linguist working with the criterion of mutual intelligibility would recognize six languages in central and western Victoria, most of them covering large areas. These widespread languages would not have been recognized as languages by the speakers themselves and they have no native name. The largest '''macrolanguage''' covers most of western Victoria north of Ballarat and Hamilton.
#* '''1996''', Bertil Tikkanen, "Languages of interethnic communication on the Indian Subcontinent (excluding Nepal)", in Stephen Adolphe Wurm et al. (editors), ''Atlas of Languages of Intercultural Communication in the Pacific, Asia, and the Americas'', Volume II.1, Walter de Gruyter, ISBN 978-3-11-013417-9, [http://books.google.com/books?id=oCx0D0iE2QoC&pg=PA787&dq=macrolanguages page 787]:
#*: The Indo-Aryan languages or '''macrolanguages''' of the plains merge into each other, being on the local level made up of enormous dialect continua (e.g. PANJABI-HINDI-BIHARI-RAJASTHANI-PAHARI). ¶ These fluid ‘'''macrolanguages'''’ (indicated by capital letters, e.g. HINDI) may have “dialects” which are mutually unintelligible and hard to classify.
#* '''2007''', Jose A. Fadul (general editor), ''Encyclopedia [[w:José Rizal|Rizal]]iana: Student Edition'', Lulu.com, ISBN 978-1-4303-1142-3, [http://books.google.com/books?id=mpik3raHihIC&pg=PA6&dq=macrolanguage page 6]:
#*: Modern Arabic is classified as a '''macrolanguage''' with 27 sub-languages spoken throughout the Arab world.

===See also===
* {{projectlink|pedia|ISO 639 macrolanguage}}

[[fr:macrolanguage]]