{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[magick]]
:''(fantasy)'' used as a deliberate archaism
:''(occult)'' used for supernatural magic, as distinguished from stage magic

===Etymology===
{{F.}} '''[[magique]]''', reborrowed from {{L.}} '''[[magice]]''', borrowed from {{AGr.}} '''[[μαγική]]''' ('''[[τέχνη]]''') "magical (art)", derived from '''[[μάγος]]''' (mage) from ''magos magus'', sorcerer, of Iranian origin; akin to Old Persian ''maguš'' "sorcerer".

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈmædʒɪk/}}, {{SAMPA|/ˈm{dZIk/}}
*{{audio|en-us-magic.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|ædʒɪk}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Having supernatural [[talent]]s, properties, or qualities.
#: ''a '''magic''' [[wand]]; a '''magic''' [[dragon]]''
# Featuring [[illusions]] that are usually performed for [[entertainment]].
#: ''a '''magic''' show; a '''magic''' trick'' 
# [[wonderful|Wonderful]], [[amazing]] or [[incredible]].
#: ''a '''magic''' moment''

====Synonyms====
*[[magical]] (1, 3)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|magic}}
*Dutch: [[magie]] ([[magisch]]), [[betoverend]], [[feeëriek]]
*Esperanto: [[magia]]
*Finnish: [[maaginen]] (1,3), [[taika-]] (1, 2), [[taianomainen]] (3), [[lumoava]] (3)
*French: [[magique]]
*German: [[magisch]]
*Hebrew: [[קסום]] (kassum) {{m}}, [[קסומה]] (qsuma) {{f}}
*Italian: [[magico]] {{m}}, [[magica]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[マジック]]
*Latin: [[magus]] {{m}}, [[maga]] {{f}}, [[magum]] {{n}}; [[magicus]] {{m}}, [[magica]] {{f}}, [[magicum]] {{n}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[draoidheachd]] {{f}}, [[geasan]] {{m}}, [[drùidheachd]] {{f}}
*Romanian: magic {{m}}, [[magică]] {{f}}, [[vrăjit]] {{m}}, [[vrăjită]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mágico]] {{m}}, [[mágica]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[magisk]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[supernatural|Supernatural]] [[occur]]rences or [[feat]]s.
# An [[illusion]] performed to give the appearance of magic or the supernatural.
# A [[ritual]] associated with [[mysticism]]].
# A cause not quite understood
#: '''''Magic''' makes the light go on''
# Something [[spectacular]] or [[wonderful]].
#: ''movie '''magic'''''
# The decrypted messages produced by US cryptographers in WWII &mdash; it is usually taken to mean '... from Japanese intercepts'. The equivalent in the UK was Ultra, referring to decrypted German traffic.
# {{computing}}  A statement or operator used in [[algorithm]] design that satisfies any conceivable formal requirement.  This is used in some methods of [[formal specification]] to allow leaving things unspecified (with the intent of later specification, as ''magic'' in this sense cannot be implemented). Also known as [[miracle]].

====Synonyms====
*[[thaumaturgy]] (1)
*[[w:Sleight of hand]] (2)
*[[legerdemain]] (2)
*[[sorcery]]
*[[witchcraft]]
*[[conjuring]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|magic}}
*Chinese: [[魔术]] (mó shù)
*Dutch: [[toverkunst]] {{f}}, [[magie]] {{f}}, [[goochelkunst]] {{f}} (2)
*Esperanto: [[magio]]
*Finnish: [[taika]] (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) [[magia]] (1, 3, 4) [[taikuus]] (2, 3, 4)
*French: [[magie]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[magy]], [[tsjoenderij]]
*German: [[Magie]] {{f}} (1,2,3,5), [[Zauber]] {{m}} (1,5), [[Zauberei]] {{f}} (1,4)
*Greek: [[μαγικός]] (magikós)
*Hebrew: [[קסם]] (qesem) {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[varázs]]
*Italian: [[magia]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[魔法]] ([[まほう]], mahou, 1), [[手品]] ([[てじな]], tejina, 2)
*Romanian: [[magie]] {{f}}, [[vrajă]] {{f}}, [[farmec]] {{mf}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[draoidheachd]] {{f}}, [[geasan]] {{m}}, [[drùidheachd]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[magia]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[magi]] {{c}}
*Thai: {{THchar|[[เวทมนตร์]]}} (wêt mon)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|magics|magicking|magicked|magicked}}

#{{transitive}} To cast a magic [[spell]] on or at someone or something.
#{{transitive}} To [[produce]] something, as if by magic.

====Synonyms====
*[[bespell]]
*[[enchant]]
*[[hex]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to magic}}
*Finnish: [[taikoa]], [[loihtia]], [[lumota]]
*German: [[verzaubern]]
*Hebrew: [[לכשף]] (lechashef)
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: [[vrăji]]
*Spanish: [[embrujar]]
*Swedish: [[förtrolla]], [[förhäxa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[magical]]
*[[magically]]
*[[magic up]]
*[[magic carpet]]
*[[black magic]]
*[[magic numbers]] = constants used to identify certain file types.

[[category:Occult]]

[[fr:magic]]
[[io:magic]]
[[it:magic]]
[[hu:magic]]
[[ja:magic]]
[[pl:magic]]
[[pt:magic]]
[[ru:magic]]
[[fi:magic]]
[[ta:magic]]
[[vi:magic]]
[[zh:magic]]