{{see|måke}}
{{wikipedia|dab=Make (disambiguation)|Make}}
==English==

{{rank|men|come|without|110|make|def|might|being}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''[[maken]]'', from {{OE.}} ''[[macian]]'', from {{proto|Germanic|makōn}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|maǵ-}}, ‘to fashion’.  Near cognates include German ''[[machen]]'' and Dutch ''[[maken]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmeɪk/}}
* {{SAMPA|/"meIk/}}
* {{audio|en-us-make.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪk}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|makes|making|made}}

# To [[create]], [[construct]] or [[produce]].
#: ''We '''made''' a bird feeder for our yard.''
#: ''They hope to '''make''' a bigger profit.''
#: ''We’ll '''make''' a man out of him yet.''
# To [[constitute]].
#: ''They '''make''' a cute couple.''
#: ''This '''makes''' the third infraction.''
# {{context|construed with ''of''|typically interrogative}} To [[interpret]].
#: ''I don’t know what to '''make''' of it.''
# {{context|usually stressed}} To bring into [[success]].
#: ''This company is what '''made''' you.''
#: ''She married into wealth. She has it '''made'''.''
# {{context|second object is an adjective}} To [[cause]] to be.
#: ''The citizens '''made''' their objections clear.''
#: ''This might '''make''' you a bit woozy.''
# {{context|second object is a verb}} To [[cause]] to do.
#: ''You’re '''making''' her cry.''
#: ''I was '''made''' to feel like a criminal.''
# {{context|second object is a verb|can be stressed for emphasis or clarity}} To [[force]] to do.
#: ''The teacher '''made''' the student study.''
#: ''Don’t let them '''make''' you suffer.''
# {{context|of a fact}} To [[indicate]] or [[suggest]] to be.
#: ''His past mistakes don’t '''make''' him a bad person.''
# {{context|of a person being sought}} To [[recognise]] (without being recognised in return)
#*'''2004,''' George Nolfi et al, ''[[w:Ocean's Twelve|Ocean's Twelve]]'', Warner Bros. Pictures, 0:50:30,
#*:<span style="font-variant:small-caps">Linus Caldwell:</span> Well, she just '''made''' Danny ''and'' Yen, which means in the next 48 hours the three o' your pictures are gonna be in every police station in Europe.
#*'''2007''' May 4, Andrew Dettmann et al, "Under Pressure", episode 3-22 of ''[[w:Numb3rs|Numb3rs]]'', 00:01:16,
#*:<span style="font-variant:small-caps">David Sinclair:</span> ''(walking)'' Almost at Seventh; I should have a visual any second now. ''(rounds a corner, almost collides into Kaleed Asan)'' Damn, that was close.<br /><span style="font-variant:small-caps">Don Eppes:</span> David, he '''make''' you?<br /><span style="font-variant:small-caps">David Sinclair:</span> No, I don't think so.

====Derived terms====
{{top3}}
*[[make a deal]]
*[[make a fuss]]
*[[make a muscle]]
*[[make an honest woman out of]]
*[[make an offer]]
*[[make a promise]]
*[[make away with]]
*[[make a wish]]
*[[make do]]
*[[make good on]] (a promise)
{{mid3}}
*[[make for]]
*[[make friends]]
*[[make hay]]
*[[make hay while the sun shines]]
*[[make it]]
*[[make light of]]
*[[make love]]
*[[make merry]]
*[[make money]]
{{mid3}}
*[[make off with]]
*[[make out]]
*[[make over]]
*[[make right]]
*[[make room]]
*[[make time]]
*[[make up]]
*[[make water]]
*[[make with]]
{{bottom3}}

====See also====
[[Appendix:Collocations of do, have, make, and take]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|construct}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|stavět}}
*Danish: [[lave]], [[udføre]]
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rakentaa}}
*German: {{t+|de|machen}}, {{t+|de|bauen}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Greek: {{t|el|κατασκευάζω||}} (kataskevázo)
*Hebrew: {{he-translation|לבנות|livnót}}
*Russian: [[делать]] (d'élat') {{impf}}, [[сделать]] (sd'élat') {{pf}}
*Slovene: [[narediti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|create}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vyrábět}}, {{t-|cs|dělat}}, {{t|cs|tvořit}}, {{t|cs|vytvářet}}, {{t|cs|udělat}}
*Danish: [[lave]], [[fremstille]], [[skabe]]
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luoda}}, {{t+|fi|tehdä}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Greek: object: {{t|el|φτιάχνω||}} (ftiáchno); manufacture: {{t|el|κατασκευάζω||}} (kataskevázo); speech, mistake  {{t+|el|κάνω||}} (káno)
* German: {{t+|de|machen}}
*Hebrew: {{he-translation|לעשות|la`asót}}
*Russian: [[делать]] (d'élat') {{impf}}, [[сделать]] (sd'élat') {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|constitute}}
*Dutch: {{t|nl|vormen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interpret}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}, {{t+|nl|denken}}, {{t|nl|interpreteren}}
*German: {{t+|de|machen}}, {{t|de|interpretieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bring into success}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}
*German: {{t+|de|machen}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Slovene: [[narediti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to be}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|činit}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|saada}}
*German: {{t+|de|machen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|gøre}}
*Hebrew: {{he-translation|לגרום|ligróm}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause to do}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|doen}}, [[ertoe]] {{t+|nl|brengen}}
*German: {{t+|de|bringen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|force to do}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|přimět}}, {{t|cs|donutit}}, {{t|cs|přinutit}}
*Danish: [[få til]]
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|doen}}, [[ertoe]] {{t+|nl|brengen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pakottaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
*German: {{t|de|zwingen}}
*Hebrew: {{he-translation|להכריח|lehakhrí`akh}}
*Russian: [[заставлять]] (zastavl'át') {{impf}}, [[заставить]] (zastávit') {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicate or suggest to be}}
*Dutch: {{t+|nl|maken}}
*German: {{t+|de|machen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|hacer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: [[صنع]]
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[napraviti]], [[praviti]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[交]] (jiāo)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[fari]], [[trovi]], [[igi]]
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[valmistama]], [[tegema]]
*{{ttbc|Filipino}}: [[gumawâ]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[faire]], [[construire]]
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[बनाना]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[facar]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[buat|membuat]], [[bikin|membikin]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[fare]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[作る]] ([[つくる]], tsukuru)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[만들다]] (mandeulda)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[facere]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[fazer]], [[construir]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[a face]]
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*:Cyrillic: [[направити]], [[правити]]
*:Latin: [[napraviti]], [[praviti]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[konstruera]], [[producera]], [[göra]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[తయారుచేయు]] (tayaarucheayu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|of a car}} [[brand|Brand]]; ''often paired with'' [[model]].
#: ''What car '''make''' do you drive?''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|brand}}
*Chinese: [[做]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|značka|f}}
*Danish: [[mærke]] {{n}}, [[fabrikat]] {{n}}
*Dutch: {{t-|nl|merk|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|marko|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|merkki}}, {{t+|fi|malli}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Fabrikat|n}}, {{t+|de|Marke|f}}
*Greek: {{t|el|μάρκα|f}} (márka)
* Italian: {{t+|it|marca|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|marca|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|märke|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English control verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Hawaiian==

===Etymology===
Originally ''[[mate]]'', compare Maori ''[[mate]]''.

===Noun===
{{haw-noun}}

# [[death]]

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=まけ}}

# {{ja-def|負け}} [[lose]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-ar|2=mak}}

# [[spouse]]; [[husband]]; married [[man]]

====Synonyms====
* [[man]]

====Antonyms====
* [[fru]]
* [[hustru]]
* [[maka]]

[[ar:make]]
[[br:make]]
[[da:make]]
[[de:make]]
[[el:make]]
[[es:make]]
[[fa:make]]
[[fr:make]]
[[ga:make]]
[[gl:make]]
[[ko:make]]
[[hi:make]]
[[io:make]]
[[it:make]]
[[kk:make]]
[[ku:make]]
[[hu:make]]
[[ja:make]]
[[no:make]]
[[pl:make]]
[[pt:make]]
[[ru:make]]
[[sg:make]]
[[simple:make]]
[[fi:make]]
[[sv:make]]
[[ta:make]]
[[te:make]]
[[vi:make]]
[[tr:make]]
[[uk:make]]
[[zh:make]]