{{see|Mal|mal-|-mal|mäl|mål|mâl|mál}}
==English==

===Noun===

====Etymology====
{{rfc-level|Etymology not at level 3}}
French ''[[mal]]'', illness.

{{en-noun}}
# [[Illness]], [[affliction]].
# {{surfing}} Contraction of [[malibu]], ie. the [[longboard]] type of surfboard.

====Usage notes====
Used only in [[set phrase]]s such as ''[[grand mal]]''.

===See also===
*[[malicious]]
*[[Mal]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
A substratum word, akin to Romanian ''[[mal]]''

===Noun===
'''mal''' {{m}} (''def. sing.'' [[mali]], ''def. pl.'' [[malet]])

# [[mount]]

[[Category:Albanian nouns]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]] || /mɑl/
|-
| [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] || /mAl/
|}

===Noun===
'''mal''' ''f'' (plural: [[mallen]], diminutive: [[malletje]], plural diminutive: [[malletjes]])

What are the translations?

# A device to help drawing [[shape]]s
# A device to help shaping objects in [[plaster]] or [[plastics]] etc.

===Adjective===
'''mal''' ([[malle]])

# [[funny]], [[crazy]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Prefix===
'''mal-'''

# Forms the opposite.
#:bona = good, malbona = bad
#:helpi = help, malhelpi = hinder
#:feliĉo = happiness, malfeliĉo = sadness

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Old French ''[[mal]]'', from Latin ''[[malus]]'', derived from Proto-Indo-European ''*mel-'' "bad, wrong".  Near cognates include Spanish ''[[malo]]'' and Italian ''[[male#Italian|male]]''.

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]]
|rowspan=2| /mal/
|-
| [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]
|}

===Noun===
'''mal''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''[[maux]]''')

# [[trouble]], [[difficulty]]
#:''J'ai du mal à m'imaginer celà'' - I have trouble imagining that.
# [[pain]]
#:''J'ai mal à la tête'' - My head hurts ''or'' I have a headache.
# [[evil]]

===Adverb===
'''mal'''

# [[badly]]

<!--really?  Isn't this "mauvais"? No ''C'est mal fait; it's done badly''-->

===Adjective===
'''mal'''

# [[bad]] (''only in sayings'')
#:bon an, mal an
#:bon gré, mal gré
#:Il est mal de / C'est mal de +infinitive

====Synonyms====
*[[mauvais]]
*[[méchant]]
*[[vilain]]
*[[laid]]
*[[merdique]] (''vulgar slang'')

===See also===
*[[pas mal]]
*[[malade]]
*[[maladie]]
*[[malaise]]
*[[mal-aimé]]
*[[maladroit]]
*[[malheur]]
*[[malfaisant]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''mal''' {{n}}

# [[purr]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Interlingua==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[malus]]''

===Adjective===
'''mal'''

# [[bad]]
# [[evil]]

===Adverb===
'''mal'''

# [[badly]], [[poorly]]
# [[wrongfully]], chodemal-very badly wide

===Noun===
'''mal'''

# [[bad]], [[badness]], something bad
# [[evil]]
# [[illness]]
# [[pain]], [[ache]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''mal''' {{m}} {{inv}}

# {{apocopic form of|male|lang=Italian}}

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''mal''' ''f''

# [[home]], [[house]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
Dacian *mala or *malwa (attested in 'Dacia Maluensis') (< PIE *molH-). Has an Albanian cognate, ''[[mal]]'', which means "mountain".

===Noun===
'''mal''' pl ''[[maluri]]''

# [[shore]]

[[Category:Romanian nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian substratum words]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}
'''mal''' {{c}} {{IPA|ˈmɑːl}}

# [[moth]]
# [[wels catfish]] (''[[Silurus glanis]]'')

====See also====
*[[fjäril]] {{c}}
*[[larv]] {{c}}

===Verb===
'''mal''' {{IPA|ˈmɑːl}}

# {{sv-verb-form-imp|mala}}

====Related terms====
*[[malström]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From Arabic {{ARchar|[[مال]]}} (māl), property.

===Noun===
'''mal'''

# [[assets]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

[[de:mal]]
[[et:mal]]
[[el:mal]]
[[es:mal]]
[[fr:mal]]
[[ko:mal]]
[[hy:mal]]
[[io:mal]]
[[id:mal]]
[[is:mal]]
[[it:mal]]
[[he:mal]]
[[ku:mal]]
[[nl:mal]]
[[ja:mal]]
[[nds:mal]]
[[pl:mal]]
[[pt:mal]]
[[ru:mal]]
[[fi:mal]]
[[sv:mal]]
[[vi:mal]]
[[tr:mal]]