{{wikipedia|dab=mama}}
{{also|Mama|mamá|māma‎}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[mamma]]
* [[momma]]

===Etymology===
Reduplication of {{term|ma}}; a trend present in many [[Indo-European]] languages, probably with ultimate origin in baby talk.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈmɑmə/}}, {{SAMPA|/"mAm@/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|hypocoristic}} [[mother|Mother]], [[female]] [[parent]].

====Derived terms====
* [[whoa mama]]

====Related terms====
* [[mom]]
* [[mommy]]
* [[mother]]
* [[mum]]
* [[mummy]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mother}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|máma|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mama|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|patrino|xs=Esperanto}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[dada]], [[nɔ]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|äiti}}, {{t+|fi|mamma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maman|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mama|f}}
* Russian: [[мама]] {{f}} (mama)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[màmag]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|mama|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mamá|f}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|мама|sc=Cyrl|tr=máma|g=f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Aymara==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ma.ma/|lang=ay}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ay|noun}}

# [[mother]]
# [[Mrs.]], [[mistress]] {{italbrac|general respectful address for married women}}.
#: ''tatanak '''mamanaka'''''
#:: ladies and gentlemen

----

==Bosnian==

===Noun===
{{bs-noun|g=f|mame}}

# [[mom]]

[[Category:bs:Family]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-mama.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/ˈmɑmɑ/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun2|f|’s|atje}}

# [[#English|mama]], [[mother]]
#: '''''Mama''', ik heb honger!''
#:: Mommy, I’m hungry!

====Synonyms====
* [[ma#Dutch|ma]], [[mam#Dutch|mam]]
* [[moeder]], [[moe#Dutch|moe]], [[moeke]] {{italbrac|Flemish}}

[[Category:nl:Family]]

----

==Ewe==

===Noun===
{{infl|ee|noun}}

# [[grandmother]]

[[Category:ee:Family]]

----

==Galician==

===Verb===
{{gl-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|[[mamar#Galician|mamar]]||3|s|pres|ind}}
# {{conjugation of|[[mamar#Galician|mamar]]||2|s|imp}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Noun===
{{infl|hu|noun}}

# [[mom]]

[[Category:hu:Family]]

----

==Korean==

===Noun===
'''mama''' ([[마마]], [[媽媽]])

# {{italbrac|honorific|lang=ko}} [[Your Majesty]], [[His Majesty]], [[Her Majesty]]
# {{italbrac|honorific|lang=ko}} [[Madame]] for a concubine of an ancient high-ranking official
# {{italbrac|honorific|lang=ko}} [[goddess]] who is allegedly responsible for [[smallpox]]
# [[smallpox]]; [[pockmark]]

[[Category:Romanized Korean nouns]]

----

==Krisa==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ksi|pronoun}}

# [[you]]

----

==Lithuanian==

===Noun===
{{lt-noun|f|mamos}}

# [[mother]]

====Declension====
{{lt-noun-f-a|mam}}

====Related terms====
* [[mamytė]], [[mamelė]] (diminutive)

[[Category:lt:Family]]

----

==Mandarin==
{{zh-forms|[[妈妈]]|[[媽媽]]}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ma˥˥ma/|lang=cmn}}

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|p|pin=māma|pint=ma1ma|tra=媽媽|sim=妈妈}}

# {{context|informal|lang=cmn}} [[mother]]

====Usage notes====
* Informal term for mother. The more formal term is {{zh-ts|母親|母亲}}.

====See also====
* {{i|Min Nan}} [[阿母]] ([[a-bú]])

----

==Martuthunira==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mama/|lang=vma}}

===Noun===
{{infl|vma|noun}}

# [[paternal uncle]], one’s father’s brother

====References====
* Dench, Alan Charles. 1995. ''Martuthunira: A Language of the Pilbara Region of Western Australia.'' Canberra: Pacific Linguistics. Series C-125.

[[Category:vma:Family]]

----

==Nigerian Pidgin==

===Noun===
{{infl|pcm|noun}}

# [[mother]]

[[Category:pcm:Family]]

----

==Panyjima==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mama/|lang=pnw}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pnw|noun}}

# [[father|Father]]; [[paternal uncle]], one’s father’s brother.

====Synonyms====
* [[papu]] (father)

====References====
* Dench, Alan (1991). "Panyjima", in R.M.W. Dixon and Barry J. Blake: ''The Handbook of Australian Languages, Volume 4''. Melbourne: Oxford University Press Australia, 125–244.

[[Category:pnw:Family]]

----

==Pitjantjatjara==

===Noun===
{{infl|pjt|noun}}

# [[father]]
# father’s older brother or close male friend; [[uncle]]
# [[god]]

====Synonyms====
* [[punari]]

====Derived terms====
* {{unicode|[[mama maḻatja]]}}
* [[mama ngunytju]]
* {{unicode|[[mama puḻka]]}}
* {{unicode|[[maṟa mama]]}}
* [[tjina mama]]

----

==Polish==

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|gender=f}}

# [[mum]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|mama|mamy
|mamy|mam
|mamie|mamom
|mamę|mamy
|mamą|mamami
|mamie|mamach
|mamo|mamy
}}

====Related terms====
* [[mamusia]] (diminutive)
* [[matka]]

[[Category:pl:Family]]

----

==Romanian==

===Noun===
{{ro-noun-def|f|na|mamă}}

# the [[mother]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Noun===
{{infl|sh|noun|g=f|plural|mame|Cyrillic spelling:|{{l|sh|мама}}}}

# [[mom]]

[[Category:sh:Family]]

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
{{infl|sk|noun|gender=f|plural|mamy}}
'''mam''' ''stem''
'''mám''' ''{{genpl}}''
{{decpat}} {{zena}}

# [[#English|mama]]

====Derived terms====
* [[mamička]] {{f}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-f}}

# [[breast]], [[mamma]]

====Related terms====
* [[mamar]]
* [[mamífero]]

----

==Swahili==

===Noun===
{{infl|sw|noun}}

# [[mother]] (one’s female parent)

{{tbot entry|Swahili|mother|2009|April|sw}}

[[af:mama]]
[[de:mama]]
[[el:mama]]
[[es:mama]]
[[fr:mama]]
[[ko:mama]]
[[hr:mama]]
[[io:mama]]
[[is:mama]]
[[it:mama]]
[[sw:mama]]
[[lo:mama]]
[[lt:mama]]
[[hu:mama]]
[[nl:mama]]
[[no:mama]]
[[pl:mama]]
[[pt:mama]]
[[qu:mama]]
[[ru:mama]]
[[simple:mama]]
[[fi:mama]]
[[te:mama]]
[[tr:mama]]
[[vi:mama]]
[[zh:mama]]