==English==

===Etymology===
{{m|en|man}} + {{m|en|up}}, with influence from {{m|en|own up}}, {{m|en|buck up}}. Used frequently in military circles.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mænʌp/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|mans up|manning up|manned up}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To "be a man about it"; to do the things a man is traditionally expected to do, such as taking responsibility for the consequences of one's actions, displaying bravery or toughness in the face of adversity, providing for one's family, etc. {{qualifier|Compare {{m|en|man||brace oneself, steel oneself}}.}}
#: ''I was wondering when he would '''man up''' and marry that girl he knocked up.''
#: ''You need to '''man up''' and confront your boss about his behavior.''
#: ''Hey son, '''man up''', ok? There will be time for tears later.
# {{lb|en|of military personnel}} To assemble, each person manning (attending to) his station, prepared for the departure of an aircraft, ship, etc. {{qualifier|Compare {{m|en|man||supply with staff; take up position to operate}}.}}
# {{lb|en|of other personnel}} To staff adequately; to staff up; to successfully fill all needed labor positions. {{qualifier|Compare {{m|en|man||supply with staff}}.}}
# {{lb|en|sports}} To vigorously guard the opponent to which one is assigned.
#* '''2005''' Allan Trimble, ''Coaching football successfully,'' Human Kinetics, [https://books.google.com/books?id=dmQiV1QzQmYC&pg=PA183&dq=football+%22man+up%22&hl=en&ei=qkktTfeSFoOucKO_tNoH&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBg#v=snippet&q=%22man%20up%20on%22&f=false page 166]:
#*: They must be athletic enough to '''man up''' on a solid number two receiver and yet be physical enough to step into the line scrimmage and tackle a running back.
#* '''2005''' Andrew McLeod & Trevor D. Jaques, ''Australian football: steps to success,'' [https://books.google.com/books?id=av8cdbCw2G8C&pg=PA138&dq=football+%22man+up+on%22&hl=en&ei=90ktTaOwEcWycLPxpZsI&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=man%20up%20on&f=false page 138]:
#*: He will '''man up''' on his opponent whenever his opponent has the ball.
#* '''2007''' Blye Frank & Kevin G. Davison, ''Masculinities and schooling: international practices and perspectives,'' Althouse Press, [https://books.google.com/books?ei=KkotTYueI8nzcauHwLwI&ct=result&id=wysoAQAAIAAJ&dq=football+%22man+up+on%22&q=%22man+up%22#search_anchor page 141]:
#*: I had to "'''man up'''" on their rover, and every time I went for the ball he tried to hit me.

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (up)]]

[[fr:man up]]
[[ta:man up]]