{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Mandarin}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈmæn.dər.ɪn/}}, {{SAMPA|/"m{n.d@r.In/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈmæn.dɚ.ɪn/}}, {{SAMPA|/"m{n.d@`.In/}}
* {{audio|en-us-mandarin.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|man|da|rin}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|es|en}} {{term|mandarín|lang=es}} and {{etyl|pt|en}} {{term|mandarim|lang=pt}}, {{term|mandarij|lang=pt}}, from {{etyl|ms|en}} {{term|menteri|lang=ms}}, {{term|manteri|lang=ms}}, from {{etyl|hi|en}} ''mantri'' {{rfscript|Devanagari}}, from {{etyl|sa|en}} {{term|मन्त्रिन्||minister, councillor|tr=mantrin|lang=sa|sc=Deva}}, from {{term|मन्त्र||counsel, maxim, mantra|tr=mantra|lang=sa|sc=Deva}} + {{term|-इन्||an agent suffix|tr=-in|lang=sa|sc=Deva}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{historical}} A high [[government]] [[bureaucrat]] of the [[Chinese]] Empire.
# A [[pedantic]] or [[elitist]] bureaucrat.
# A pedantic senior person of influence in [[academia]] or [[literary]] circles, often used [[pejoratively]].
# A [[mandarin duck]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Chinese Imperial bureaucrat}}
* Chinese: [[官]] (guān)
* Danish: {{t-|da|mandarin|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mandarijn|m}}
* Esperanto: [[mandareno]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mandariini}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mandarin|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mandarin|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μανδαρίνος|n|tr=manðarínos|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mandarino|m}}
* Polish: [[mandaryn]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[mandarim]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мандарин|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mandarin|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|elitist bureaucrat}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|academic or literary elitist}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|[[mandarin duck]]}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Greek: [[γραφειοκράτης]] (grafiokratis) {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[mandarim]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[byråkrat]] {{c}}, [[mandarin#Swedish|mandarin]] {{c}}, [[pamp]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Pertaining to mandarins.
# Deliberately superior or complex; esoteric, elaborate.
#* '''2007''': Though alert to riddles' strong roots in vernacular narrative, Cook's tastes are '''mandarin''', and she gives a loving account of Wallace Stevens's meditations on the life of poetic images and simile — Marina Warner, ‘Doubly Damned’, ''London Review of Books'' 29:3, p. 26

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fr|en}} {{term|mandarine|lang=fr}}, feminine of {{term|mandarin|lang=fr}}, probably formed as Etymology 1, above, from the yellow colour of the mandarins' costume.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[mandarin orange]]; a small, sweet citrus fruit.
# A [[mandarin orange]] tree.
# An orange colour.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fruit}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|մանդարին|sc=Armn|tr=mandarin}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mandariini}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მანდარინი|tr=mandarini}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μανταρίνι|n|tr=mantaríni|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|περγαμόντο|n|tr=pergamonto|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mandarin}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|mandarynka|f}}
* Portuguese: mandarina {{f}}, [[tangerina]] {{f}}, [[bergamota]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|мандарин|m|tr=mandarín|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[мандарин]] ''m'' (2)
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[mandarín]] ''m'' (1, 2), mandarina ''f'' (3)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|es|crh}} [[mandarín#Spanish|mandarín]].

===Noun===
'''mandarin'''

# [[mandarin]] ''(fruit)''.

====Declension====
{{crh-latin-noun|niñ|ge|ni|de|den}}

===References===
* {{R:Useinov-Mireev 2002}}

[[Category:Crimean Tatar nouns]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|pt|da}} {{term|mandarim|lang=pt}}.

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|er}}

# [[mandarin#English|mandarin]] {{qualifier|Chinese Imperial bureaucrat}}
# {{fruits|lang=da}} [[mandarin orange]], [[mandarin#English|mandarin]] {{qualifier|a small, sweet citrus fruit}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|er}}

===Noun===
{{infl|da|noun|g=n}}

# {{languages|lang=da}} [[Mandarin]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[mandarin#English|mandarin]] (''of the former Chinese empire'')
# [[Mandarin]] (''language'')

[[Category:Fruits]]
[[Category:Hindi derivations]]
[[Category:Malay derivations]]
[[Category:Portuguese derivations]]
[[Category:Sanskrit derivations]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'mɒndɒrin/|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|man|da|rin}}

===Adjective===
{{infl|hu|adjective}}

# {{fruit|lang=hu}} [[#English|mandarin]]

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ok}}

# {{historical|lang=hu}} [[#English|mandarin]]
# ''(singular only)'' [[Mandarin]] (language)
# {{fruit|lang=hu}} [[#English|mandarin]]

[[de:mandarin]]
[[et:mandarin]]
[[es:mandarin]]
[[fr:mandarin]]
[[io:mandarin]]
[[it:mandarin]]
[[hu:mandarin]]
[[my:mandarin]]
[[no:mandarin]]
[[pl:mandarin]]
[[pt:mandarin]]
[[ru:mandarin]]
[[fi:mandarin]]
[[sv:mandarin]]
[[tt:mandarin]]
[[te:mandarin]]
[[vi:mandarin]]
[[tr:mandarin]]
[[zh:mandarin]]