==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|mannisshe}}, {{m|enm|mannysh}}, from earlier {{m|enm|mennish|t=human", also "humanity, mankind}}, from {{inh|en|ang|mennisċ|t=human, natural, humane", also "mankind, human race}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*manniskaz|t=human}}, from {{der|en|gem-pro|*mann-|t=man, human, person}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*man-|t=man}}, equivalent to {{af|en|man|-ish}}. Cognate with {{cog|osx|mens|t=human}}, {{cog|goh|Mensch|t=human being}}, {{cog|non|menneske|t=human}}, {{cog|is|manneskja|t=person, human being}}. {{doublet|en|mennish}}. See also {{l|en|man}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈmænɪʃ/}}
* {{rhymes|ænɪʃ|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|of a woman}} Resembling or characteristic of a [[man]], [[masculine]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#: {{syn|en|butch|masculine|unladylike}}
#* c. '''1380s''', {{w|Geoffrey Chaucer}}, ''{{w|Troilus and Criseyde}}'', Book I, lines 281-284,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/257/257-h/257-h.htm]</sup>
#*: She nas nat with the leste of hir stature,
#*: But alle hir limes so wel answeringe
#*: Weren to womanhode, that creature
#*: Was neuer lasse '''mannish''' in seminge.
#* c. '''1601''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Troilus and Cressida}}'', Act III, Scene 3,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=troilus&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: A woman impudent and '''mannish''' grown
#*: Is not more loathed than an effeminate man
#*: In time of action.
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Radclyffe Hall|authorlink=Radclyffe Hall|chapter=7|title={{w|The Well of Loneliness}}|location=London|publisher={{w|Jonathan Cape}}|year=1928|oclc=5359892|location2=New York, N.Y.|publisher2=[[w:Pascal Covici|Covici Friede Publishers]]|year2=October 1932|section2=book 1, section 1|page2=68|pageurl2=https://archive.org/details/wellofloneliness00hall/page/68/mode/1up|oclc2=872643730|passage=She detested the look of herself in large goggles, detested being forced to tie on her hat, detested the heavy, '''mannish''' coat of rough tweed that Sir Philip insisted she must wear when motoring.}}
# Resembling or characteristic of a grown man (as opposed to a boy); [[mature]], [[adult]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#: {{syn|en|manly|grown up}}
#* c. '''1609''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Cymbeline}}'', Act IV, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=cymbeline&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
#*: Have got the '''mannish''' crack, sing him to the ground,
#* '''1748''', {{w|Samuel Richardson}}, ''{{w|Clarissa}}'', Volume I, Letter 8,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/9296/9296-h/9296-h.htm]</sup>
#*: And so, with an air of '''mannish''' superiority, he seems rather to pity the bashful girl, than to apprehend that he shall not succeed.
#* '''1957''', {{w|Langston Hughes}}, ''Simply Heavenly: A Comedy with Music'', Dramatists Play Service, Act I, Scene 4, page 25,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=K6yY9OCGE6oC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Aunt Lucy found out about it and woke me up the next morning with a switch in her hand. . . . But I got all '''mannish''' that morning, Joyce. I said, “Aunt Lucy, you ain’t gonna whip me no more. I’se a man now—and you ain’t gonna whip me.”
#* '''2011''', Mickel Brann, “Don’t take it personal,” ''Antigua Observer'', 30 March, 2011,<sup>[http://antiguaobserver.com/don%E2%80%99t-take-it-personal/]</sup>
#*: It’s things like these that remind me that for all his '''mannish''' ways, he’s still just a little tyke after all.
# {{lb|en|Caribbean|Guyana}} [[impertinent|Impertinent]]; assertive.<ref>cf. Richard Alsopp, ''Dictionary of Caribbean English Usage'', University of the West Indies Press, 2003, '''mannish'''.<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=PmvSk13sIc0C&printsec=frontcover]</sup></ref> {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#* '''2014''', Kurt Campbell, “Police left 15-year-old to die — Relatives,” inewsguyana.com, 11 March, 2014,<sup>[http://www.inewsguyana.com/police-left-15-year-old-to-die-relatives/]</sup>
#*: “They could have saved his life because he was still living, one woman said when she told the police that the boy was alive he said leave him to die, he’s wanted,” Giddings cried, adding that “I know he bad, he '''mannish''', he does misbehave but I never know he was wanted… how can they make the claim without medical assistance.”
# {{lb|en|archaic}} Resembling or characteristic of a [[human being]], in form or nature; [[human]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#* '''14th century''', {{w|Geoffrey Chaucer}}, ''{{w|Canterbury Tales}}'', {{w|The Tale of Melibee}},<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/22120/22120-h/22120-h.htm]</sup>
#*: The proverbe seith: that “for to do sinne is '''mannish''', but certes for to persevere longe in sinne is werk of the devel.”
#* {{RQ:Gower Confessio Amantis|volume=III|book=VI|page=52|passage=A man it semed was it none, / But yet it was as in figure / Most lich to '''mannes''' creature. / But as of beaute hevenlich / It was most to an aungel lich, {{...}}|brackets=on|termlang=en}}
#* '''1955''', {{w|JRR Tolkien}}, ''The Return of the King'':
#*: The Westron was a '''Mannish''' speech, though enriched and softened under Elvish influence.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|mannishly}}
* {{l|en|mannishness}}
* {{l|en|mannish water}}

===References===
<references />

===Further reading===
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ahimnns|Hinmans}}