{{interwiktionary|code=mi}}
{{also|maori|māori|Māori}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmaʊri/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/"maUri/}}
* {{IPA|/meɪ'jɔːɹ.ɹi/}} {{qualifier|American dialectal}}
* {{rhymes|aʊri}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|mi}} {{term|māori|lang=mi}}, meaning "aborigine", "native", "normal", "ordinary", or "plain".

===Alternative forms===
* '''Māori''': Preferred usage in Māori text.
* '''Mäori''': Alternative usage in Māori text where macrons not available.
* '''Maaori''': Alternative usage in Māori text with limited character sets.

===Adjective===
'''Maori'''

# Of, from, or pertaining to the Maori.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of, from, or pertaining to the Māori}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|маорски}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|maori}}
* Chinese: [[毛利]]的 (Máolì de)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Maori}}
* Finnish: [[maori]]-
* French: {{t+|fr|maori|m}}, {{t+|fr|maorie|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|маорски|m|tr=máorski}},  {{t-|mk|маорска|f|tr=máorska}},  {{t-|mk|маорско|n|tr=máorsko}},  {{t-|mk|маорски|p|tr=máorski}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Manx: {{t-|gv|Maorach}}
* Maori: {{t-|mi|Māori}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t-|nb|maorisk}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|maorisk}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[مائوری]]}} (Mā'ori)
* Polish: {{t-|pl|maoryski}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|maori}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|Maori|-|pl2=Maoris}}

# Language of the Maori.
# Indigenous people of [[Aotearoa New Zealand]].
# Member of the people of [[New Zealand]].

====Usage notes====
The plural form "Maoris" is sometimes used for members of the people, but "Maori" is preferred, as the term is invariant in Māori.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|language of the Māori}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ماوري|m|tr=mauriy}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|maori|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|毛利語|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|毛利语|tr=Máolì-yǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|maorština|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Maori|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maori}}, {{t-|fi|maorin kieli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|maori|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Maori|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greenlandic: {{t-|kl|Maorimiutut}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|Maorais|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|マオリ語|tr=Maori-go}}
* Korean: {{t-|ko|마오리어|tr=Maori-eo|sc=Hang}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|маорски|m|tr=máorski}}
* Maori: {{t-|mi|te reo Māori}},  {{t-|mi|Māori}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|माओरी|f|tr=māorī|sc=Deva}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|maori}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|maori}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|maoryski|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|маори|m|tr=máori}} {{indeclinable}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Maori dili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indigenous people of Aotearoa New Zealand}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|маори|p}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|毛利人|tr=Máolì-rén|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Maori|p}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|maur}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|maorit|p}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|マオリ人|tr=Maori-jin}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|Маори|p|tr=Máori}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|माओरी|tr=māorī|sc=Deva}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|Maorysi|p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|маори|m|f|tr=máori}} {{indeclinable}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|member of the people of New Zealand}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|maori|m|f}}
* Dutch: Maori {{m|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maori}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Maori|m}}, {{t-|fr|Maorie|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|Маор|m|tr=Máor}},  {{t-|mk|Маорка|f|tr=Máorka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Manx: {{t-|gv|Maorach|m}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|माओरी|tr=māorī|sc=Deva}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|maori|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t-|nn|maori|m}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|Maorys|m}}, {{t-|pl|Maoryska|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|маори|m|f|tr=máori}} {{indeclinable}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|mi}}: [[Māori]]
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{fa-Arab|[[مائوری]]}} (mā’ori)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: maori (1,2)
* {{ttbc|sv}}: maori (1,2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[Maoriland]]

====See also====
* ''[[te reo]]''
* [[Index:Maori|Index of Maori words]]
* {{langcat}}

===External links===
* [http://www.learningmedia.co.nz/nz/online/ngata/ Ngata Dictionary (new URL 2005 - it now has macrons, but it is initially unable to recognise them in a Maori-English search)] <!-- Robin wrote to Learning Media about it a second time on 25 May -->
* [http://translator.kedri.info ngā aho whakamāori-ā-tuhi (English and Maori Word Translator)] formerly from the Knowledge Engineering Laboratory of University of Otāgo, now based in Auckland
* [http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~tetaka/kupurorohiko.htm He Kupu Rorohiko] - Computer-related terms, by Te Taka Keegan - over 350 Maori-English words and phrases, followed by English-Maori
* [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Maori-english/ Maori - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.
* {{ISO 639|link=Ethnologue|1code=mi|code=mri}}
; eTexts at the NZ Electronic Text Centre
* [http://www.nzetc.org/tm/scholarly/tei-WillDict.html A Dictionary of the Maori Language, by Herbert Williams (1957)].
* [http://www.nzetc.org/tm/scholarly/tei-TreMaor.html Maori-Polynesian Comparative Dictionary, by Edward Tregear (1891)].
* [http://www.nzetc.org/tm/scholarly/tei-WilFirs.html First Lessons in Maori, by Bishop William Williams (1930)]

===Anagrams===
* [[Mario#English|Mario]]
* [[Moira#English|Moira]]
* [[moria#English|moria]]

[[Category:en:Languages]]

[[de:Maori]]
[[et:Maori]]
[[el:Maori]]
[[fr:Maori]]
[[hi:Maori]]
[[hu:Maori]]
[[nl:Maori]]
[[nds:Maori]]
[[pl:Maori]]
[[pt:Maori]]
[[ru:Maori]]
[[ta:Maori]]
[[tr:Maori]]
[[zh:Maori]]