{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Mark|märk}}
==English==

{{rank|ten|beautiful|possible|424|mark|followed|fear|evening}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[marke]] ''(obsolete)''
* [[merk]] ''(obsolete)''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mɑːk/}} (''UK''), {{IPA|/mɑɹk/}} (''US'')
* {{audio|en-us-mark.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɑː(r)k}}
* Homophone: [[Mark]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[mearc]]'', from Germanic ''*mark-'' ‘boundary; boundary marker’, from Proto-Indo-European ''*merǵ-'' ‘boundary, border’. Cognate with Dutch ''[[mark#Dutch|mark]]'', German ''[[Mark]]'', Swedish ''[[mark#Swedish|mark]]''; and with Latin ''[[margo]]'' ‘margin’.  Compare ''[[march]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# boundary, land in a boundary
## {{obsolete}} A [[boundary]]; a [[border]] or [[frontier]]. {{defdate|9th-19th c.}}
## {{obsolete}} A boundary-post or [[fence]]. {{defdate|13th-18th c.}}
## A stone or post used to indicate position and guide travellers. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##* '''1859''', Henry Bull, ''A history, military and municipal, of the ancient borough of the Devizes'':
##*: I do remember a great thron in Yatton field near Bristow-way, against which Sir William Waller's men made a great fire and killed it. I think the stump remains, and was a '''mark''' for travellers.
## {{archaic}} A type of small region or principality. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
##* '''1954''', JRR Tolkien, ''The Two Towers'':
##*: There dwells Théoden son of Thengel, King of the '''Mark''' of Rohan.
## {{context|historical}} A [[common]], or area of common land, especially among early Germanic peoples. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
# characteristic, sign, visible impression
## An [[omen]]; a symptomatic indicator of something. {{defdate|from 8th c.}}
##* '''1813''', Jane Austen, ''Pride And Prejudice'':
##*: depend upon it, you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this as well as for every other '''mark''' of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire.
## A characteristic feature. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
##*'''1643''', Sir Thomas Browne, ''Religio Medici'':
##*:there is surely a physiognomy, which those experienced and master mendicants observe, whereby they instantly discover a merciful aspect, and will single out a face, wherein they spy the signatures and '''marks''' of mercy.
##: ''A good sense of manners is the '''mark''' of a true gentleman.''
## A visible impression or sign; a [[blemish]], [[scratch]], or [[stain]], whether [[accidental]] or [[intentional]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
##* '''1897''', Bram Stoker, ''Dracula'':
##*: Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red '''mark''' of the Count's terrible grip [...].
## A [[sign]] or [[brand]] on a person. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
##*'''1621''', Robert Burton, ''The Anatomy of Melancholy'', III.iv.2.6:
##*:Doubt not of thine election, it is an immutable decree; a '''mark''' never to be defaced: you have been otherwise, you may and shall be.
## A written character or sign. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
##: ''The font wasn't able to render all the diacritical '''marks''' properly.''
## A stamp or other indication of provenance, quality etc. {{defdate|from 11th c.}}
##: ''With eggs, you need to check for the quality '''mark''' before you buy.''
## {{obsolete}} [[resemblance|Resemblance]], [[likeness]], [[image]]. {{defdate|14th-16th c.}}
##* '''ca. 1380''', Geoffrey Chaucer, ‘The Franklin's Tale’, ''Canterbury Tales'':
##*: Which mankynde is so fair part of thy werk / That thou it madest lyk to thyn owene '''merk'''.
## A particular design or make of an item {{i|now usually with following numeral}}. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
##: ''Presenting...my patented travelator, '''mark''' two.''
## A [[score]] for finding the correct answer, or other [[academic]] achievement; the sum of such point gained as out of a possible total. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
##: ''What '''mark''' did you get in your history test?''
# indicator of position, objective etc.
## A [[target]] for [[shoot]]ing at with a projectile. {{defdate|from 13th c.}}
##* '''1786''', Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 37:
##*: To give them an accurate eye and strength of arm, none under twenty-four years of age might shoot at any standing '''mark''', except it was for a rover, and then he was to change his '''mark''' at every shot; and no person above that age might shoot at any '''mark''' whose distance was less than eleven score yards.
## An indication or sign used for reference or measurement. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
##: ''I filled the bottle up to the 500ml '''mark'''.''
## The target or intended victim of a [[swindle]], fixed game or [[con game]]. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
## {{obsolete}} The female [[genitals]]. {{defdate|16th-18th c.}}
##* '''1596''', William Shakespeare, ''Love's Labours Lost'', I.4:
##*: A '''mark''' saies my Lady. Let the '''mark''' haue a prick in't, to meate at, if it may be.
##*'''1749''', John Cleland, ''Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure'', Penguin 1985, p. 68:
##*:her thighs were still spread, and the '''mark''' lay fair for him, who, now kneeling between them, displayed to us a side-view of that fierce erect machine of his [...].
## {{aussie-rules|date|19}} A catch of the ball directly from a kick of 10 metres or more without having been touched in transit, resulting in a [[free kick]].
## {{sports|date|19}} The line indicating an athlete's starting-point.
## {{date|20}} A [[score]] for a [[sporting]] achievement.
## {{date|20}} A specified [[level]] on a scale denoting gas-powered oven [[temperatures]].
##: ''Now put the pastry in at 450 degrees, or '''mark''' 8.''
# attention
## {{date|15}} {{archaic}} [[attention|Attention]], [[notice]].
##: ''His last comment is particularly worth of '''mark'''.''
## {{archaic|date|16}} [[importance|Importance]], [[noteworthiness]]. (Generally in postmodifier "of mark".)
##* '''1909''', Richard Burton, ''Masters of the English Novel'':
##*: in the short story of western flavor he was a pioneer of '''mark''', the founder of a genre: probably no other writer is so significant in his field.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from ''mark'' (noun)}}
* [[beauty mark]]
* [[bench-mark]]/[[benchmark]]
* [[birthmark]]
* [[black mark]]
* [[bookmark]]
* [[certification mark]]
* [[chatter mark]]
* [[check mark]]
* [[chop mark]]
* [[cue mark]]
* [[diacritical mark]]
* [[exclamation mark]]
* [[full marks]]
* [[funnel mark]]
* [[gas mark]]
* [[hash mark]]
* [[high-water mark]]
* [[laundry mark]]
* [[leave one's mark]]
* [[make one's mark]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[markstone]]
* [[miss the mark]]
* [[off the mark]]
* [[on your marks]]
* [[Plimsoll mark]]
* [[punctuation mark]]
* [[question mark]]
* [[quotation mark]]
* [[remark]]
* [[ripple mark]]
* [[scuff mark]]
* [[sea mark]]
* [[service mark]]
* [[strawberry mark]]
* [[stress mark]]
* [[stretch mark]]
* [[tempo mark]]
* [[trade mark]]/[[trade-mark]]/[[trademark]]
* [[vaccination mark]]
* [[wide of the mark]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|indication for reference or measurement}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|նշան|tr=nšan}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[marca]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|markering|f}}, {{t-|nl|aanduiding|f}}, {{t+|nl|teken|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|merkki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marque|f}}, {{t+|fr|signe|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zeichen|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|סימן|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|segno|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|mæl|alt=mǣl|xs=Old English}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|marco|m}}
* Romanian: [[marcă]] {{f}}, [[semn]] {{n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|знак|m|tr=znak}}
* Slovene: {{t-|sl|oznaka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marca|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|alama|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|märke|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|academic score}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|թվանշան|tr=t’vanšan}}, {{t|hy|գնահատական|tr=gnahatakan}}
* [[Catalan]]: nota {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|punt|n}}, {{t+|nl|score|f}}
* Finnish: [[arvosana]], [[numero]] ''(colloquial)''
* French: {{t+|fr|note|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Note|f}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ציון|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|voto|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|成績}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|nota|f}}
* Romanian: [[notă]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|nota|f}}, {{t-|es|calificación|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sporting score}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|միավոր|tr=miavor}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|punt|n}}, {{t+|nl|score|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|score|m}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|punteggio|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: [[scor]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|punto|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|visible impression, blemish, stain}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[marca]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blaam|m}}
* Finnish: [[tahra]], [[jälki]], [[läiskä]], [[naarmu]]
* French: {{t+|fr|trace|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|macchia|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mancha|f}}
* Romanian: [[urmă]] {{f}}, [[pată]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marca|f}}, {{t-|es|mancha|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}},  {{t+|sw|alama|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[märge]] (1), [[hinne]] (3)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To indicate in some way for later reference.
# To take note of.
# To blemish, scratch, or stain.
# To indicate the correctness of and give a score to an essay, exam answers, etc.
# {{context|Australian Rules football}} To catch the ball directly from a kick of 15 metres or more without having been touched in transit, resulting in a [[free kick]].
# {{sport}} To follow a player not in possession of the ball when defending, to prevent them receiving a pass easily.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|indicate}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[أشر|أشّر]]}} {{IPAchar|(’áššara)}}
* Chinese: [[标记]] (biāojì)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|markeren}}, {{t+|nl|aanduiden}}, {{t-|nl|optekenen}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tähistama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|merkitä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marquer}}
* German: {{t+|de|markieren}}, {{t+|de|kennzeichnen}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|megjelöl}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|marcare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[印]]を[[つける]] (しるしをつける, shirushi o tsukeru)
* Korean: [[표를]] [[하다]] (pyoreul hada)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|marcar}}, {{t+|pt|indicar}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|маркировать|tr=markirovát’}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|comharraich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[označiti]], [[zaznamovati]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|marcar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|märka}}, {{t|sv|märka upp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|take note of}}
* Dutch: [[noteren]], [[opschrijven]], [[neerpennen]], [[nota nemen]]
* Finnish: [[merkitä]], [[muisti]]in
* French: {{t+|fr|noter}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|comharraich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apuntar}}, {{t+|es|anotar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: [[märka]], [[lägga märke till]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|blemish}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|bevlekken}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tahrata}}, {{t-|fi|naarmuttaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tacher}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|macchiare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[zaznamovati]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|marcar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|correct}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verbeteren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|arvostella}}, {{t+|fi|korjata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|corriger}}
* German: {{t+|de|korrigieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|comharraich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|calificar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|rätta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(soccer) to follow a player}}
* German: {{t+|de|decken}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|Punktmarkera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[marcar]] (1, 3), [[apuntar]] (2), [[anotar]] (2), [[qualificar]] (4)
* {{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[hindama]] (4)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the verb "mark"}}
* [[man-mark]]
* [[mark-down]]
* [[mark down]]
* [[marked]]
* [[marker]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[marking]]
* [[mark my words]]
* [[mark out]]
* [[mark time]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[mark up]]
* [[mark-up]]
* [[press-mark]]
* [[X marks the spot]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[marc]]'', from Germanic ''*mark-'' (probably ultimately the same as Etymology 1). Cognate with Dutch ''[[mark]]'', German ''[[Mark]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A measure of weight (especially for [[gold]] and [[silver]]), once used throughout Europe, equivalent to 8 oz.
#:* '''1997''', As a reward for his poetry, Athelstan gave Egil two more gold rings weighing a '''mark''' each, along with an expensive cloak that the king himself had worn. — ‘Egil's Saga’, tr. Bernard Scudder, ''The Sagas of Icelanders'' (Penguin 2001, p. 91)
# {{historical}} An English and Scottish unit of currency (originally valued at one '''mark''' weight of silver), equivalent to 13 shillings and fourpence.
# Any of various European monetary units, especially the base [[unit]] of [[currency]] of Germany between 1948 and 2002, equal to 100 [[pfennig]]s.
# A '''mark''' coin.

=====Synonyms=====
''(German currency)'': [[Deutschmark]], [[Deutsche Mark]], German '''mark'''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|old unit of weight for gold etc.}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marc|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unit of currency}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|մարկ|tr=mark}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|marka|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|馬克|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|马克|tr=mǎkè|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|marka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mark|m}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|mark}}
* Finnish: [[markka]] ''(Finnish)'', [[saksanmarkka]] ''(German)'', [[Saksan markka]]
* French: {{t+|fr|mark|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mark|f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|marco|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|marco|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|марка|f|tr=márka}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[марка#Serbian|марка]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[marka#Serbian|marka]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|marco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mark|c}}, {{t+|sv|D-mark|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|coin}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|marka|f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|marka|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mark|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|markka}}
* French: [[pièce]] {{f}} d'un mark
* Italian: [[moneta]] {{f}} di un marco
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|марка|f|tr=márka}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[марка#Serbian|марка]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[marka#Serbian|marka]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|maki|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[convertible mark]]
* [[Deutsche Mark]], [[Deutschmark]]
* [[markka]]
* [[Reichsmark]]

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|akmr}}
* [[Karm#English|Karm]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Currency]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|mǫrk|lang=non}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mark/|[mɑːɡ̊]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|er}}

# [[field]] {{gloss|wide, open space used to grow crops or to hold farm animals}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|er}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en}}

# {{l|en|mark}} {{gloss|unit of currency}}

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en}}

====Derived terms====
* [[finmark]]
* [[D-mark]]

===External links===
* {{pedialite|lang=da}}
* {{pedialite|Mark (møntenhed)|lang=da}}

----

==Faroese==

===Noun===
'''mark''' {{f}}

# (''[[kvæði]]'') [[forest]]
# (''in phrases'') [[pasture]]
# {{biblical|lang=fo}} [[field]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-f2|mark}}

====Synonyms====
'''forrest'''
* [[skógur]], [[mørk]]
'''pasture'''
* [[hagi]]
'''field'''
* [[bøur]]

===Noun===
'''mark''' {{n}}

# [[sign]]
# [[border]], [[frontier]]

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-noun-n3|mark}}
{{fo-decl-noun-n5|m|a|rk|ø}}

====Synonyms====
'''sign'''
* [[merki]]

[[Category:Faroese nouns]]
[[Category:fo:Agriculture]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-mark.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# mark (''former currency'')

[[Category:fr:Currency]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''mark''' {{n}}

# [[sign]]

====See also====
* [[merki]]

====Derived terms====
* [[hitta marks]]
* [[lífsmark]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun|g=m}}

# [[worm]] (animal)
{{infl|no|noun|g=f}}

# [[march]]

{{tbot entry|Norwegian|worm|2009|August|no}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-mark.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}
'''mark'''

# {{uncountable|lang=sv}} [[ground]] (''as opposed to the sky or the sea'')
#: ''Ha fast mark under fötterna'' - to be on terra firma (literally "to have firm ground under (one's) feet")
#: ''Tillbaka på klassisk mark'' - back on classical ground
#: ''På engelsk mark'' - on English soil
# (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]'') ground, [[field]]
#: ''Bonden ägde mycket mark'' - The farmer owned a lot of ground
# [[mark#English|mark]] (''currency'')
# {{gambling|lang=sv}} [[counter]], [[marker]]

====See also====
* [[ta mark]]
* [[i skog och mark]]

[[ang:mark]]
[[ar:mark]]
[[de:mark]]
[[et:mark]]
[[el:mark]]
[[es:mark]]
[[fr:mark]]
[[ko:mark]]
[[io:mark]]
[[is:mark]]
[[it:mark]]
[[kn:mark]]
[[kk:mark]]
[[sw:mark]]
[[ku:mark]]
[[lt:mark]]
[[li:mark]]
[[hu:mark]]
[[ml:mark]]
[[my:mark]]
[[nl:mark]]
[[ja:mark]]
[[no:mark]]
[[pl:mark]]
[[pt:mark]]
[[ro:mark]]
[[ru:mark]]
[[simple:mark]]
[[fi:mark]]
[[sv:mark]]
[[tl:mark]]
[[ta:mark]]
[[te:mark]]
[[th:mark]]
[[tr:mark]]
[[vi:mark]]
[[zh:mark]]