{{also|Maroon}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=maroon}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/məˈɹuːn/|/məˈɹəʊn/|/məˈɹəʉn/}}
* {{audio|en|en-uk-maroon.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{hyphenation|en|ma|roon}}
* {{rhymes|en|uːn|əʊn}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{bor|en|fr|marron||feral; fugitive|pos=a}}, from {{der|en|es|cimarrón||fugitive, wild, feral}}, from {{der|en|tnq|-}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|Maroon (people)}}
{{en-noun}}

# An escaped [[negro]] [[slave]] of the [[Caribbean]] and the [[Americas]] or a descendant of escaped slaves. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#*'''1985''', {{w|Wade Davis (anthropologist)|Wade Davis}}, ''The Serpent and the Rainbow'', Simon & Schuster, p. 193:
#*: Further north a '''Maroon''' community in the Bahoruco Mountains thrived for eighty-five years, until the French proposed a truce under the terms of which the '''Maroons''' would be permitted to form an independent clan.
#* '''2007''', Kevin Filan, ''The Haitian Vodou Handbook'', Destiny Books 2007, p. 14:
#*: Joining others who had escaped before them, they formed communities of '''Maroons''' in which many traditional African customs and social mores were preserved.
# A [[castaway]]; a person who has been marooned. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#: {{syn|en|castaway}}

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{alter|en|Maroon}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|runaway slave}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|marron|m}}, {{t+|nl|bosneger|m}}, {{t|nl|bosnegerin|f}}, {{t|nl|boslandcreool|m}}, {{t|nl|boslandcreoolse|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marron|m}}, {{t+|fr|marronne|f}}, {{t|fr|[[nègre]] marron|m}}, {{t|fr|[[négresse]] marronne|f}}, {{t|fr|nègre [[libre]]|m}}, {{t|fr|négresse [[libre]]|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Maroon}} {{q|{{t|de|Maroons|p}}, from English}}, {{t|de|Maroon-Männer|m-p}}, {{t|de|Maroon-Frauen|f-p}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|маро́н|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|esclavo cimarrón|m}}, {{t|es|esclava cimarrona|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|castaway}}
* German: {{t|de|Ausgesetzter|m}}, {{t|de|Ausgesetzte|f}}, {{t|de|Ausgestoßener|m}}, {{t|de|Ausgestoßene|f}}, {{t|de|Ausgestossener|m}} {{q|Switzerland & Liechtenstein}}, {{t|de|Ausgestossene|f}} {{q|Switzerland & Liechtenstein}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|naufrago|m}}, {{t+|it|naufraga|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|naufragiat|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|изго́й}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|strandsatt}} person
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Associated with Maroon culture, communities or peoples.
#* '''2002''', Cynthia James, ''The Maroon Narrative: Caribbean Literature in English Across Boundaries, Ethnicities, and Centuries'', Heinemann Educational Books
#*: In her discussion of Michelle Cliff's ''Abeng'', a novel that historicizes '''maroon''' culture and the Jamaican warrior heroine Nanny of the Maroons, Francoise Lionnet examines linguistic “metissage” {{...}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|associated with Maroon culture, communities or peoples}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|marron-}}, {{t|nl|boslandcreools}}
* French: {{t+|fr|marron}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|Maroon-}}, {{t|de|der Maroons}} {{q|genitive}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[abandon]] in a remote, desolate place, as on a [[desert island]].
#* '''2010''', Brogan Steele, ''From the Jaws of Death: Extreme True Adventures of Man vs. Nature'', St. Martin's Griffin ({{ISBN|9781429950114}}), page [https://books.google.de/books?id=pRQsO5OVLTcC&lpg=PA231&dq=%22marooned%22&hl=de&pg=PA231#v=onepage 231]:
#*: After the harrowing stories of being '''marooned''' at sea and stranded in the frozen wastelands of Alaska and the Poles, one would think that survival on dry land would be easier {{...}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|marooner}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to abandon}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|achterlaten}}, {{t+|nl|verlaten}}
* German: {{t+|de|im Stich lassen}}, {{t+|de|aussetzen}}, {{t|de|von der Außenwelt abschneiden}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|abbandonare}}, {{t+|it|mollare}}, {{t+|it|piantare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakamahue}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бросать}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|tvrdnúť}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Further reading====
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20131101091822/http://lucy.ukc.ac.uk/ethnoatlas/hmar/cult_dir/culture.7834 A good short account of the "Bush Negroes" in Suriname]

===Etymology 2===
{{bor|en|fr|marron||chestnut; brown}}. Compare Spanish {{l|es|marrón}}.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|Maroon (color)}}
{{en-noun}}

# A dark [[red]], somewhat [[brown]]ish, [[color]].
#: {{color panel|800000}}
#* '''2009''', Ben Long, ''The Nikon D90 Companion: Practical Photography Advice You Can Take Anywhere'', O'Reilly Media, Inc. ({{ISBN|9780596555665}}), page [https://books.google.de/books?id=3ukYp2HE9KQC&lpg=PA176&dq=%22a%20maroon%22&hl=de&pg=PA176#v=onepage 176]:
#*: Is it a really dark '''maroon''' or a lighter '''maroon''' or a '''maroon''' that leans toward the red side? Or the magenta side? To address this issue, scientists use something called a color space.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|dark red, somewhat brownish colour}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|كَسْتَنَائِيّ|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|栗色|tr=lìsè}}
* Danish: {{t|da|maron}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|punaruskea}}
* French: {{t|fr|marron pourpré}}, {{t+|fr|bordeaux}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|ruzo}}, {{t|gl|burel}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|წაბლისფერი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{q|general}} {{t|de|Rotbaun|n}}; {{q|more brownish tones}} {{t|de|Kastanienbraun|n}}; {{q|more reddish tones}} {{t|de|Weinrot|n}}, {{t+|de|Bordeaux|n}}
* Greek: {{t|el|καστανέρυθρο|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בורדו|tr=bordo}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|gesztenyebarna}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|rauðbrúnn|m}}, {{t|is|dumbrauður|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|maron}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|granate}}, {{t+|it|bordeaux}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|くり色|tr=くりいろ, kuriiro}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|밤색|tr=bamsaeg, -k}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|jahang}}, {{t|ms|merah tua}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|элгэн хүрэн өнгө|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|diłhiłgo łichííʼ}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|بلوطی|tr=baluti|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bordô}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|maro}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|тёмно-бордо́вый}} {{qualifier|цвет}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|castaño}}, {{qualifier|Argentina}} {{t+|es|bordó}}, {{t|es|burdeos}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bordeaux}}, {{t+|sv|vinröd}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|hạt dẻ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Of a '''maroon''' color

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|color}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bordeauxrood}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|punaruskea}}
* French: {{t|fr|marron pourpré}}, {{t+|fr|bordeaux}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|loureiro}}, {{t|gl|moretado}}, {{t|gl|fouveiro}}, {{t+|gl|brun}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|წაბლისფერი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{q|general}} {{t+|de|rotbraun}}; {{q|more brownish tones}} {{t+|de|kastanienbraun}}; {{q|more reddish tones}} {{t+|de|weinrot}}, {{t|de|bordeauxrot}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|καστανέρυθρος}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|bordóvörös}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|rauðbrúnn|m}}, {{t|is|dumbrauður|m}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|merah marun}}
* Italian: {{t|it|granate}}, {{t+|it|rossastro}}, {{t+|it|fulvo}}
* Japanese: [[くり色]]の (くりいろの, kuriiro no)
* Javanese: {{t|jv|abang marun}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|kaštoninė}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malagasy: {{t+|mg|volontsokola}}
* Maltese: {{t+|mt|marun}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|элгэн хүрэн|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|diłhiłgo łichííʼ}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|بلوطی|tr=baluti|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|kasztanowa}}, {{t|pl|barwa kasztanowa}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|castanho|m}}, {{t+|pt|castanha|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|maro}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|тёмно-бордо́вый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|castaño}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vinröd}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bordo}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|màu hạt dẻ}}, {{t|vi|nâu sẫm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{list:reds/en}}

===Etymology 3===
{{unk|en}}. Possibly owing to the fact that the color of a fired [[flare]] was commonly red.

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|maroon (rocket)}}
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|nautical}} A [[rocket]]-[[propel]]led [[firework]] or [[skyrocket]], often one used as a [[signal]] (e.g. to [[summon]] the [[crew]] of a [[lifeboat]] or [[warn]] of an [[air raid]]).
#* '''1887''', “Metropolitan Reports,” ''[[w:Chemist + Druggist|The Chemist and Druggist]]'', 5 November, 1887, p. 564,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/b19974760M0437]</sup>
#*: On Sunday afternoon a serious firework explosion occurred in Lambeth, whereby three persons were seriously injured. Two lads {{...}} purchased a firework called a “'''maroon'''”, which is a bomb consisting of a small ball of string covered with a red composition. It is loaded with gunpowder, and there is also a fuse attached.
#* '''1891''', [[w:William Archer (critic)|William Archer]] (translator), “At the Fair” in ''Tales of Two Countries'' by {{w|Alexander Kielland}}, New York: Harper, p. 73,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/talesoftwocountr00kieliala]</sup>
#*: As the evening falls, colored lamps and Chinese lanterns are lighted around the venerable oak which stands in the middle of the fairground and boys climb about among its topmost branches with '''maroons''' and [[w:Bengal light|Bengal lights]].
#* '''1900''', Alan C. Jenkins, ''Introducing Horses'', London: Spring Books,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/introducinghorse00jenk]</sup>
#*: Many a seaman’s life may have depended on equine speed and strength. Some of these ‘Lifeboat Horses’ used to recognise the '''maroon''' which was fired to summon the Lifeboat crew. Long after its retirement one of the horses which regularly helped to haul the Hoylake Lifeboat heard a '''maroon''' fired one day when it was working in the neighbouring fields. It immediately became very excited and made for the boathouse.
#* '''1932''', {{w|George Bernard Shaw}}, ''{{w|Too True to Be Good}}'', Act II,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks03/0300591h.html]</sup>
#*: And now I am off to inspect stores. There is a shortage of '''maroons''' that I don’t understand.
#* '''1933''', {{w|H. G. Wells}}, ''{{w|The Shape of Things to Come}}'', Book 2, Chapter 9,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.net.au/ebooks03/0301391h.html]</sup>
#*: The big air raids {{...}} were much more dreadful than the air raids of the World War. They began with a nightmare of warning '''maroons''', sirens, hooters and the shrill whistles of cyclist scouts, then swarms of frantic people running to and fro {{...}}

===Etymology 4===
From an intentional mispronunciation of the word {{m|en|moron}} used by the cartoon character [[w:Bugs Bunny|Bugs Bunny]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|slang|derogatory}} An [[idiot]]; a [[fool]].
#: {{syn|en|Thesaurus:fool|Thesaurus:idiot}}
#* '''2011''', S. Watts Taylor, ''Tarnish'', iUniverse (2011), {{ISBN|9781462002023}}, [http://books.google.com/books?id=jqn8HMZTeRIC&pg=PA21 page 21]:
#*: At least, I would not be sleeping that night. Why did I have that espresso? What a '''maroon'''!

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=amnoor|Morano|Romano-|romano}}

[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:People]]