{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} < {{etyl|ang}}, itself from {{etyl|la}} [[martyr#Latin|martyr]] < {{etyl|grc|en}} '''{{polytonic|[[μάρτυρ]]}}''' (''martyr''), later form of '''{{polytonic|[[μάρτυς]]}}''' (''martys'') "witness".

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-martyr.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɑː(r)tə(r)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One who wilingly accepts being put to death for adhering openly to one's religious beliefs. Notably said of [[saint]]s canonized after martyrdom
#: ''St. Stephen was the first Christian '''martyr'''''.
<!-- maybe somebody can find a way to include women without twice using "he or she"? -->
# {{by extension}} One who [[sacrifice]]s his life, his station, or what is of great value to him, for the sake of principle or to sustain a cause.
# (''with a prepositional phrase of cause'') One who [[suffer]]s greatly and/or constantly, even involuntarily.
#: ''Stan is a '''martyr''' to arthritis, Chris a '''martyr''' to Stan's endless whining about it.

====Antonyms====
* [[confessor]]

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[martyrdom]]
* [[martyrer]]
* [[martyress]]
* [[martyrial]]
* [[martyrion]]
* [[martyrish]]
* [[martyrium]]
* [[martyrizate]]
* [[martyrize]]
* [[martyrizer]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[martyrly]]
* [[martyrolatry]]
* [[martyrless]]
* [[martyrologe]]
* [[martyrologue]]
* [[martyrology]]
* [[martyrship]]
* [[martyry]]
* [[protomartyr]]
{{der-mid}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|one accepting to be killed for religion}}
* Armenian: [[մարտիրոս]] (martiros)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|mučedník|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|martelaar|m}}, {{t-|nl|martelares|f}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|märter}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|marttyyri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|殉教者|tr=junkyōsha|sc=Jpan}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|mucenic}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мученик|m|tr=múčenik|sc=Cyrl}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|şehit}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who sacrifices their life for an important cause}}
* Armenian: [[նահատակ]] (nahatak)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|martelaar|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|märter}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|marttyyri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|殉教者|tr=junkyōsha|sc=Jpan}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|martir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мученик|m|tr=múčenik|sc=Cyrl}}
* Turkish: [[şehit]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one who suffers greatly, even involuntarily}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|martelaar|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|märter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uhri}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|受難者|tr=junansha|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{Arab|[[شهيد]]}} (šahīd) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[mučenik]] {{m}}, [[šehit]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[烈士]] (lièshì); [[受難者]], [[受难者]] (shòu nàn zhě)
* {{ttbc|Croatian}}: {{t-|hr|mučenik|m}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: martyr {{m}}, [[martyre]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: {{t+|de|Märtyrer|m}}
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: {{t|el|μάρτυρας|m|tr=mártiras|sc=Grek}}
* {{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[शहीद]] (šahīd) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: martyr
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[순교자]] (sun-gyoja)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[şehîd]]
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: {{t+|no|martyr|m}}
* {{ttbc|Persian}}: {{fa-Arab|[[شهید]]}} (šahid)
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: {{t-|pl|męczennik|m}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: {{t-|pt|mártir}}
* {{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*: Cyrillic: [[мученик]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[mučenik]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: {{t+|es|mártir|m}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: {{t-|sv|martyr}}
* {{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{ur-Arab|[[شہید]]}} (šahīd) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[martüran]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To make someone a '''martyr''' by putting to death for adhering to, or acting in accordance with, some belief, especially religious; to [[sacrifice]] on account of faith or profession.
# {{transitive}} To [[persecute]]
#: ''Some religious and other minorities were '''martyred''' till extinction
# {{transitive}} To [[torment]]; to [[torture]].
#: ''The lovely Amoret, whose gentle heart''
#: ''Thou '''martyrest''' with sorrow and with smart.'' —Spenser
<!-- webstah again -->

====Synonyms====
* [[martyrize]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to make someone a martyr}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] ([[jostakin]]) {{t-|fi|marttyyri}}
* French: {{t+|fr|martyriser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|martiriza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|persecute}}

{{trans-see|torture}}

[[Category:English concrete nouns]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|no}} {{term|martyr}} < {{etyl|grc|no}} '''{{polytonic|[[μάρτυρ]]}}''' (martyr), later form of '''{{polytonic|[[μάρτυς]]}}''' (martys) "witness".

===Noun===
{{infl|no|noun}}

# [[#English|martyr]]

====Related terms====
* [[martre]]
* [[martyrdød]]
* [[martyrium]]

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=m1|nn-class=m1}}

[[de:martyr]]
[[fa:martyr]]
[[fr:martyr]]
[[ko:martyr]]
[[io:martyr]]
[[id:martyr]]
[[it:martyr]]
[[la:martyr]]
[[hu:martyr]]
[[nl:martyr]]
[[no:martyr]]
[[pl:martyr]]
[[ru:martyr]]
[[tl:martyr]]
[[ta:martyr]]
[[te:martyr]]
[[vi:martyr]]
[[zh:martyr]]