==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|æʃə(r)}}

===Etymology 1===
{{suffix|mash|er}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# One who, or that which, [[mash]]es.
# {{brewing}} A machine for making [[mash]].

===Etymology 2===
Either<ref>[http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-mas1.htm Mash Note] at World Wide Words</ref><ref>[http://books.google.com/books?id=j41z0yeKbeIC&pg=PA195&dq=masher The City in Slang], by Irving L. Allen, [http://books.google.com/books?id=j41z0yeKbeIC&pg=PA195&dq=masher p. 195]</ref> by analogy with<ref>''The Barnhart Concise Dictionary of Etymology,'' as cited at [http://www.grammarphobia.com/blog/2007/03/mash-notes.html The Grammarphobia Blog: Mash notes], March 16, 2007</ref> {{term|masher||one who presses, softens}}, or more likely from {{etyl|rom|en}}<ref>{{w|Charles Godfrey Leland}} in [http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/22939 The Gypsies], p. 109, footnote 108; and preface to his poem “The Masher”, where he credits the etymology to [Albert Marshall] Palmer, a Broadway producer.</ref> {{term|masha||a fascinator, an enticer|lang=rom}}, {{term|mashdva||fascination, enticement|lang=rom}}. Originally used in theater,<ref>Random House Historical Dictionary of American Slang</ref> and recorded in US in 1870s.
Either originally borrowed as [[masher]], from {{term|masha}}, or from {{suffix|mash|er}}. Leland writes of the etymology:<ref>Preface to poem “The Masher”, in his ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=B2GmNo96450C Songs of the Sea and Lays of the Land],'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=B2GmNo96450C&printsec=frontcover#PPA243,M1 p. 243] ([http://www.archive.org/stream/songsofthesea00lelarich/songsofthesea00lelarich_djvu.txt full text])</ref>
: It was introduced by the well-known gypsy family of actors, C., among whom Romany was habitually spoken. The word “masher” or “mash” means in that tongue to allure, delude, or entice. It was doubtless much aided in its popularity by its quasi-identity with the English word. But there can be no doubt as to the gypsy origin of “mash” as used on the stage. I am indebted for this information to the late well-known impresario [Albert Marshall] Palmer of New York, and I made a note of it years before the term had become at all popular.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# a man who makes often unwelcome advances to women
#*'''around 1900''', O. Henry, ''[[s:The Ferry of Unfulfilment|The Ferry of Unfulfilment]]''
#*:"Oh, gee!" remarked the Girl from Sieber-Mason's, glancing up with the most capable coolness. "Ain't there any way to ever get rid of you '''mashers'''? I've tried everything from eating onions to using hatpins. Be on your way, Freddie."
# a fashionable man, a [[dandy]], a [[fop]]
# {{rare}} A man who [[molest]]s women, as in a [[subway]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|dandy, fop}} [[dude]], [[dood]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[mash#Etymology 3|mash]]
* {{l|en|mash note}}

=====References=====
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[harems#English|harems]]
* [[Ramesh#English|Ramesh]]

[[et:masher]]
[[eo:masher]]
[[io:masher]]
[[it:masher]]
[[my:masher]]
[[ta:masher]]
[[vi:masher]]
[[zh:masher]]