{{also|MASH}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|măsh}}, {{IPA|/mæʃ/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/m{S/}}
* {{rhymes|æʃ}}

===Etymology 1===
See '''[[mesh]]'''

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{obsolete}} A mesh

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|mash|lang=enm}}, {{term|mash|mash-|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|mæsc|mǣsc-}}, {{term|masc|māsc-}}, {{term|max|māx-}}, from {{proto|Germanic|maiskaz||maiskō|mixture, mash|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|meiǵ-||meiḱ-|to mix|lang=en}}. Akin to German {{term|Meisch|lang=de}}, {{term|Maische||mash|lang=de}}, (compare {{term|meischen|lang=de}}, {{term|maischen||to mash, wash|lang=de}}), {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|mäsk||mash|lang=sv}}, and to {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|miscian||to mix}}. See {{l|en|mix}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state.
# In brewing, ground or bruised malt, or meal of rye, wheat, corn, or other grain (or a mixture of malt and meal) steeped and stirred in hot water for making the wort.
# [[mashed potatoes|Mashed potatoes]].<!--full definition is at "mashed potatoes"-->
# A mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals.
# {{obsolete}}: A mess; trouble &mdash; [[w:Francis Beaumont|Francis Beaumont]] & [[w:John Fletcher (playwright)|John Fletcher]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[mash tun]]<!--'''Mash tun''', a large tub used in making mash and wort-->
* [[mash vat]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a mass of mixed ingredients}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|grød}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|muusi}}, {{t-|fi|sose}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|mos|m}}, {{t+|no|grøt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|miazga|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mezcla|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mos}}, {{t+|sv|gröt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in brewing}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|mæsk}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mäski}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zacier|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|malta remojada|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|mäsk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|mashed potatoes}}
{{trans-top|a mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|amasijo|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|llith|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|obsolete: a mess; trouble}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[Maische]] {{f}} (1, brewing), [[Brei]] {{m}} (1), [[Mus]] {{n}} (1), [[Futterbrei]] {{m}} (2)

====Verb====
{{en-verb|mash|es}}

# {{transitive}} To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; to [[bruise]]; to [[crush]]; as, to mash apples in a mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert, as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort.
# {{transitive}} To press down hard (on).
#: ''to mash on a bicycle pedal''
# {{transitive|southern US|informal|}} to press.
# {{transitive|UK}} To prepare a cup of tea (in a teapot), alternative to [[brew]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[mashing]]
<!--* [[mashing tub]], a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries-->
* [[mashed potato]], [[mashed potatoes]]<!-- plural noun (Originally lower class colloquial from early 1900s) Potatoes which have been boiled and mashed to a pulpy consistency, usu. with sparing addition of milk, salt, butter, or other flavoring. It is a popular accompaniment to a meat course-->
* [[bangers and mash]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|convert (something) into a mash}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|muusata}}, {{t-|fi|muhentaa}},  {{t-|fi|survoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|machacar}}, {{t-|es|hacer puré}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|press down hard on (something)}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|survoa}},  {{t-|fi|survaista}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|press (something)}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puristaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[mischen]], [[zerstampfen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|tpi}}: [[paitim]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Either<ref>[http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-mas1.htm Mash Note] at World Wide Words</ref><ref>[http://books.google.com/books?id=j41z0yeKbeIC&pg=PA195&dq=masher The City in Slang], by Irving L. Allen, [http://books.google.com/books?id=j41z0yeKbeIC&pg=PA195&dq=masher p. 195]</ref> by analogy with<ref>''The Barnhart Concise Dictionary of Etymology,'' as cited at [http://www.grammarphobia.com/blog/2007/03/mash-notes.html The Grammarphobia Blog: Mash notes], March 16, 2007</ref> {{term|mash||to press, to soften}}, or more likely from {{etyl|rom}}<ref>{{w|Charles Godfrey Leland}} in [http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/22939 The Gypsies], p. 109, footnote 108; and preface to his poem “The Masher”, where he credits the etymology to [Albert Marshall] Palmer, a Broadway producer.</ref> {{term|masha||a fascinator, an enticer|lang=rom}}, {{term|mashdva||fascination, enticement|lang=rom}}. Originally used in theater,<ref>Random House Historical Dictionary of American Slang</ref> and recorded in US in 1870s. Either originally used as [[mash]], or a backformation from {{term|masher}}, from {{term|masha}}. Leland writes of the etymology:<ref>Preface to poem “The Masher”, in his ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=B2GmNo96450C Songs of the Sea and Lays of the Land],'' [http://books.google.com/books?id=B2GmNo96450C&printsec=frontcover#PPA243,M1 p. 243] ([http://www.archive.org/stream/songsofthesea00lelarich/songsofthesea00lelarich_djvu.txt full text])</ref>
: It was introduced by the well-known gypsy family of actors, C., among whom Romany was habitually spoken. The word “masher” or “mash” means in that tongue to allure, delude, or entice. It was doubtless much aided in its popularity by its quasi-identity with the English word. But there can be no doubt as to the gypsy origin of “mash” as used on the stage. I am indebted for this information to the late well-known impresario [Albert Marshall] Palmer of New York, and I made a note of it years before the term had become at all popular.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# to [[flirt]], to [[make eyes]], to make romantic advances

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{obsolete}} an [[infatuation]], a [[crush]], a [[fancy]]
# {{obsolete}} a [[dandy]], a [[masher]]
# {{obsolete}} the object of one’s affections {{qualifier|either sex}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|mash note}}
* {{l|en|masher}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|an infatuation, a crush, a fancy}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|flirt|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[AMHS#English|AMHS]]
* [[hams#English|hams]]
* [[HMAS#English|HMAS]]
* [[sham#English|sham]]

[[cs:mash]]
[[et:mash]]
[[eo:mash]]
[[fa:mash]]
[[fr:mash]]
[[ko:mash]]
[[io:mash]]
[[it:mash]]
[[kn:mash]]
[[hu:mash]]
[[mg:mash]]
[[ml:mash]]
[[my:mash]]
[[pl:mash]]
[[ru:mash]]
[[simple:mash]]
[[fi:mash]]
[[tl:mash]]
[[ta:mash]]
[[te:mash]]
[[vi:mash]]
[[zh:mash]]