==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|frm}} {{term|masque|lang=frm}} from {{etyl|it}} ''[[maschera]]'' 'mask, disguise' from {{etyl|ML.}} {{term|masca|lang=la}}, ''[[mascha]]'', ''[[mascus]]'' 'mask, nightmare, ghost', of uncertain origin. Replaced {{etyl|ang|-}} ''[[grima#Old English|grīma]]'' "mask".

{{etyl|ML.}} {{term|masca|lang=la}}, ''[[mascha]]'', ''[[mascus]]'' may represent the merger of two or more words: one related to {{etyl|fro|-}} ''[[mascurer]]'' 'to blacken, cover the face' (cf. {{etyl|oci|-}} ''[[mascarar]]'', {{etyl|cat|-}} ''[[mascarar]]''), a conflation of a {{etyl|gem}} source (from assumed {{etyl|frk}} *''[[maska#Frankish|maska, maskra]]'') represented by {{etyl|ang|-}} ''[[mæscre#Old English|mæscre]]'' 'mesh; discoloration, spot', {{ang}} ''[[masc#Old English|masc]]'' 'net, mesh netting', {{etyl|goh|-}} ''[[masca#Old High German|māsca]]'' 'mesh, ties', all from {{proto|Germanic|maskō-, maskr-|mesh|lang=}} from {{proto|Indo-European|mezg-|to knit, twist|lang=}}, from the practice of wearing mesh netting over the face as a mask to filter air, keeping soot and dust particles from entering the lungs (cf ''surgical mask, gas mask, etc.''), and a stem *''maska, mask-'' 'black' believed to be of Pre-Indo-European origin giving rise to words meaning 'witch, wizard, sorcerer' (cf Old {{oci}} ''[[masco]]'' 'witch', {{oci}} ''[[masca]]'' 'witch', {{fr}} ''[[masque]]'' 'brothel-keeper, witch'); and another perhaps from Arabic [[مسخرة]] (''maskhara(t)'') “buffoon, fool, pleasantry, anything ridiculous” < [[سخرة]] (''sakhira'') “to ridicule, to laugh at”.

* Derived from the ''-r-'' form: Italian {{term|maschera|lang=it}}, Spanish and Portuguese ''[[máscara]]'', Dutch {{term|masker|lang=nl}}, English ''[[masquerade]]''.
* Derived from the form lacking ''-r-'': German {{term|Maske|lang=de}} and Swedish {{term|mask|lang=sv}}.<ref>{{R:EWddS|ed=22}}</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/mɑːsk/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/mæsk/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɑːsk}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[cover]], or partial cover, for the [[face]], used for disguise or protection.
#: ''a dancer's '''mask'''; a fencer's '''mask'''; a ball player's '''mask'''''
# That which [[disguise]]s; a pretext or subterfuge.
# A festive [[entertainment]] of dancing or other diversions, where all wear masks; a [[masquerade]]; hence, a revel; a frolic; a delusive show - [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]]
#* [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#*: This thought might lead me through the world's vain '''mask'''.
# {{obsolete}} A dramatic [[performance]], formerly in vogue, in which the actors wore masks and represented mythical or allegorical characters.
# {{architecture}} A [[grotesque]] head or face, used to adorn [[keystone]]s and other prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called also [[mascaron]].
# {{context|fortification}} In a permanent fortification, a redoubt which protects the caponiere.
# {{context|fortification}} A [[screen]] for a battery
# {{zoology}} The [[lower]] [[lip]] of the [[larva]] of a [[dragon fly]], modified so as to form a prehensile organ.
# ''(Puebloan anthropology)'' The ceremonial objects used in Puebloan [[kachina]] cults that resemble Euro-American masks. (The term is objected as an appropriate translation by Puebloan peoples as it emphasizes imitation but ignores power and representational intent.)
# {{computing|programming}} A [[pattern]] of [[bit]]s used in [[bitwise]] [[operation]]s; [[bitmask]].
# {{computer|graphics}} A two-color (black and white) [[bitmap]] generated from an [[image]], used to create [[transparency]] in the image.

====Derived terms====
* [[death mask]]
* '''[[Mask house]]''', ''(Obsolete),'' a house for masquerades<!-- check capitalisation -->
* [[sleep mask]]
* [[unmask]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or protection}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|դիմակ}} (dimak)
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|маска|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|маска|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|maska|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|masque|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Maske|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|προσωπίδα|f|tr=prosopida}},  {{t+|el|μάσκα|f|tr=maska}},  {{t|el|προσωπείο|n|tr=prosopeio}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|maszk}}, {{t+|hu|álarc}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|gríma|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|topeng|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|masker|xs=Indonesian}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|maschera|f}}, {{t-|it|mascherina|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|仮面}}, {{t+|ja|マスク}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маска}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|maske|m+f}},  {{t|no|maska|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|maska|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|máscara|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|маска|f}}
* Serbian: {{t|sr|кринка|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|sr|маска|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sr|крабуља|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sr|ličina|f|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sr|obrazina|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|маска|f|xs=Ukrainian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|That which disguises}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|դիմակ}} (dimak)
* German: {{t+|de|Maske|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μεταμφίεση|f|tr=metamfiesi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|maschera|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|maske|m+f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A festive entertainment}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μεταμφίεση|f|tr=metamfiesi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A dramatic performance in which the actors wore masks}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(architecture) A grotesque head or face}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(Fortification) A redoubt which protects the caponiere}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(Fortification): A screen for a battery}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(zoology) The lower lip of the larva of a dragon fly}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: 1. 가면 /gamiən/, 탈 /tal/
::: 2. 복면 /bokmiən/
::: 3. [[masquerade|가면 무도회]] /gamiən mudohoi/
::: 4. [[masquerade|가면극]] /gamiənkuk/
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[mask#Swedish|mask]] (1,2), [[maskerad]] (3)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[maske]](1)
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: قناع
* {{ttbc|French}}: '''masque'''
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[máscara]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[aghaidh-choimheach]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[máscara]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[cover]], as the face, by way of [[concealment]] or defense against injury; to conceal with a mask or visor.
#* Shakespeare, ''Merry Wives of Windsor, IV,vi'':
#*: They must all be '''masked''' and vizarded
# {{transitive}} To [[disguise]]; to cover; to hide.
#* Shakespeare, ''Macbeth, III-i'':
#*: '''Masking''' the business from the common eye
# {{military|transitive}} To [[conceal]]; also, to intervene in the line of.
# {{military|transitive}} To [[cover]] or keep in check.
#: ''to '''mask''' a body of troops or a fortess by a superior force, while some hostile evolution is being carried out''
# {{intransitive}} To take part as a [[masker]] in a masquerade - [[Cavendish]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[wear]] a mask; to be disguised in any way - Shakespeare.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To cover, as the face, by way of concealment or defense against injury}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|maskeren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|maskieren}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To disguise; to cover; to hide}}
* German: {{t-|de|maskieren}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(military) To conceal; also, to intervene in the line of}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(military) To cover or keep in check}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To take part as a masker in a masquerade}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To wear a mask; to be disguised in any way}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|maski|xs=Esperanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: sich [[maskieren]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: 1. 가면을 쓰다,복면을 하다, 복면을 쓰다
::: 2. 변장하다, 위장하다, 숨기다
::: 3. 숨기다
::: 4. 위장하다
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[maskera]] (1,2,4)
* {{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[maskeleme]] (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|akms}}
* [[maks#English|maks]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non}} {{term|maðkr|lang=sv}} ({{etyl|gmq-osw}} {{term|maþker|lang=non}}). Cognate with English {{term|mawk|lang=en}}, Danish {{term|maddike|lang=da}} and Finnish {{term|matikka|lang=fi}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{audio|Sv-mask.ogg|audio}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}

# [[worm]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[daggmask]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|fr|sv}} {{term|masque|lang=fr}} < {{etyl|la|sv}} {{term|masca|lang=la}}. Details: see above, ''[[#English|mask]]''.

====Pronunciation====
* {{audio|Sv-mask.ogg|audio}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}}

# mask; a cover designed to disguise or protect the [[face]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[maskera]]
* [[maskerad]]
* [[maskering]]

[[Category:Headgear]]

[[ca:mask]]
[[de:mask]]
[[fa:mask]]
[[fr:mask]]
[[ko:mask]]
[[hy:mask]]
[[io:mask]]
[[id:mask]]
[[it:mask]]
[[hu:mask]]
[[ml:mask]]
[[nl:mask]]
[[pl:mask]]
[[fi:mask]]
[[sv:mask]]
[[ta:mask]]
[[te:mask]]
[[tr:mask]]
[[vi:mask]]
[[zh:mask]]