{{also|Massage}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|massage|lang=fr}}, from {{term|masser||to [[mass]](age)}} + {{term|-age}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{wikipedia}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/məˈsɑʒ/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The action of [[rub]]bing, [[knead]]ing or [[hit]]ting someone's body, to help the person [[relax]], prepare for muscular action (as in contact sports) or to relieve [[ache]]s.
#: ''Having a '''massage''' can have many beneficial effects.''

====Derived terms====
* [[erotic massage]]
* [[massager]]
* [[massage parlour]], [[massage parlor]]
* [[massage therapist]]
* [[massotherapy]]


The massage technique and local massage technique are basically the same. The massage posture and massage order is generally: first prone waist, hip and back massage neck, Then supine, chest, after first massage massage abdomen, massage limbs sitting. At first, massage body massage after the big muscles, massage small muscles.
Massage, should finish a part to do another part, finish do another side side.
The massage time about 30-60min. 

The massage neck.
Methods: pushing, knead, kneading and knocks and pull
The operation procedure: massage the sitting, standing behind the massage, hands on each side of the neck by massage, make the light from tyre, when push to root, respectively, both hands to shoulder after repeated several times since the neck, shoulder department until the upper lateral down for granados knead. After the first light force, after a few times, knead sternocleidomastoid muscle, then knocks back, finally do massage head was charged the active in all directions.

The back massage.
Methods: push the brush, moab, knead, press and knocks
The operation procedure: massage head, prone to one side. In upper torso, straight on one side or the upper buckling, massage neck cushion on the stand on its side, bipod and shoulder are the same as wide, leaning his slightly. First, from the waist nudge pushed up the next corner, then, turn again to the armpit. Power from light to heavy. Jog, in the back with the palm or the root of palm, rub bottom-up do large spinous lined with thumbs up from the rub. In between the rib usable fingertips of moab and do push. At the next corner and wiped inside edge, massage with one's shoulder massage resist, with the other hand in hand inside the top-down brush. For both hands pressing vertical spinal muscular and spine. After cutting strike on both sides of the spine bottom-up muscles, finally to jog.

The hand and wrist massage.
Methods: push the brush, moab, knead, press, pull
Procedure: massage by those who stood opposite massage, first joint to the wrist do nudges, moab, then wipe after several times in the volar finger dorsal and push the transverse do wipe again, along with the fingers of both sides, pushed upward push back down between the thicker, wipe again, moab and rubbing on the wrist joint, and then rub wrist, press press, massage the fingers crossed hands, two palms root lives by the wrist, massage relative strength and power from light to heavy, repeated several times, finally, to make the fingers of and wrist and end.

The arm and shoulder massage.
Methods: moab, knead, knead, rub, shaking, tapped and pull
Operation: two steps, sit or stand relative who stood by massage massage, the lateral to shoulder by elbow for several times, and then to nudge the biceps and triceps, deltoid muscle and shoulder to rub kneads, then back to rub shoulders by cubits. Rub shoulders, a pressure in front shoulder am quite tight. Another hand in the upper to rub moves, then tapped deltoid muscle, shaking biceps and triceps, last shipment and shoulder and nudges end.

The foot massage, the ankle.
Methods: push the brush, moab, knead, pull
The operation procedure: massage sitting or lying. Massage direction from the distal XiangJinDuan, first from toes, foot ankle back and calf direction to make a few times, then use to nudge hypothenar or ankle and foot back in moab, and do wipe with knead, do after the joints and ankle operation toe, finally to jog.

The calf and knee massage.
The technique of tyre, and knead, kneading, rub and jitter and shipped.
Operation: the massage take steps down or seat, knee flexion. Sit or stand in the massage by massage, the lateral crus from ankle to the popliteal fossa do a few times, then hands or nudge one-hand knead crus triceps, knead process can insert nudges or dithering, then in the knee, especially on both sides of the ligamentous around in moab, knead granados brush, the knee and crus, rub the last shipment and nudges end.

The thigh massage.
Methods: moab, knead, kneading and jitter, rub and knocks.
Operation: the massage take steps down or seat, from knee to the groin and hip direction several times, and then in the light push by lateral thigh behind the front legs, and side do after kneading, granados rub, shaking, do with nudges knocks the final end.


The massage hip and hip.
Methods: moab, knead, knead, shaking, and knocks.
The operation procedure: massage massage prone, who stand at your side. Starting from next to the hips from inside the lymph flow direction along on the hip, and then gently pushes granados knead, due to do massage, coxal muscle forcibly, when some appropriate massage available in the root of palm or hands overlap pressure, kneading massage can also be added pressure when hands, then knead with both hands overlap press and shaking muscles, finally knocks coxal muscle and hip.,
 
 
 
oil massage regional

 ☆ [http://www.hotelangelmassage.cn oil massage Shanghai]
 ☆ [http://www.hotelangelmassage.cn/about.htm oil massage Beijing]

====Related terms====
* [[masseur]], [[masseuse]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rubbing, kneading, or hitting muscled part of a body}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|تدليك|m|tr=tadliik}},  {{t|ar|تمسيد|m|tr=tamsiik}},  {{t|ar|مساج|m|tr=masaaj}}
* [[Catalan]]: massatge {{m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|按摩|tr=ànmó|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|masáž|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massage|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hieronta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|massage|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Massage|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μαλάσσω|tr=malassoo}},  {{t|el|χειρομαλάσσω|tr=cheiromalassoo}},  {{t|el|εντρίβω|tr=entriboo}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|massaggio|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|マッサージ|tr=''massāji''}}
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|gemirandin|f}}, {{t|ku|perixandin|f}}, {{t|ku|mistdan|f}}, {{t+|ku|masaj|f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|масажа|f|tr=masáža}},  {{t|mk|трлање|n|tr=t'rlanje}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|masaż|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|массаж|m|tr=massáž}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|masaje|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|masaj}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|massag|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[rub]] and [[knead]] (someone's body or a part of a body), to perform a massage on (somebody).
# {{transitive}} To [[manipulate]] ([[data]] or a document) to make it more [[presentable]] or more convenient to work with.
#* '''2008''', Patrick Wintour & Steven Morris, ''The Guardian'', May 22 2008, p. 3:
#*: The Conservatives have '''massaged''' expectations down by saying they would be delighted with a majority of 1,000 [...]
# {{transitive}} To [[falsify]] (data or accounts).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to perform a massage on somebody}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|按摩|tr=ànmó|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|masseren}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hieroa}}
* German: {{t+|de|massieren}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|masszíroz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|マッサージする|tr=massāji-surú}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|масира|tr=masíra}},  {{t|mk|трла|tr=t'rla}}
* Polish: [[masować]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|массировать|tr=massírovat'}} {{impf}},  {{t|ru|делать массаж|tr=délat' massáž}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|masaj yapmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to manipulate data or a document}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|manipuleren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|schönen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to falsify data or accounts}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vervalsen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[masser]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

[[Category:Massage|*]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fr}} ''cfr. infra''

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-massage.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|massages|massagetje}}

# A physical [[#English|massage]]

====Related terms====
* [[masseren]]
* [[masseur]] {{m}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|masser|age|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/masaʒ/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# A physical [[#English|massage]]

====Related terms====
* [[masser]]
* [[masseur]] {{m}}

[[da:massage]]
[[fa:massage]]
[[fr:massage]]
[[io:massage]]
[[id:massage]]
[[it:massage]]
[[hu:massage]]
[[nl:massage]]
[[no:massage]]
[[pl:massage]]
[[ru:massage]]
[[fi:massage]]
[[ta:massage]]
[[tr:massage]]
[[vi:massage]]
[[zh:massage]]