{{also|Masseuse}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|fr|masseuse}}, feminine of {{m|fr|masseur}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/maˈsɜːz/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|en|/məˈsuːs/|/məˈsʊz/}}

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun|plural|masseuses|masculine|masseur}}

# A woman who performs [[massage]]; a female [[masseur]].
#* ''Friends'' (TV series, episode 3.05)
#*: Oh! I'm a '''masseuse'''. I give people massages and stuff.
# {{lb|en|nonstandard}} A {{l|en|masseur}}; a {{l|en|man}} who performs massage.
#* '''2003''', Helena B. Rich., L. C. S. W. Helena B. Rich, ''The Art of Masturdating: A Guidebook for Single Heterosexuals'', iUniverse {{ISBN|9780595292578}}, page 103
#*: He was a great '''masseuse'''.
#* '''2012''', Penny Dixon, ''Betrayed'', Troubador Publishing Ltd {{ISBN|9781780883205}}, page 57
#*: He was a good '''masseuse''', and could always make Jez relax.
#* '''1998''', Bad Subjects Production Team, ''Bad Subjects: Political Education for Everyday Life'', NYU Press {{ISBN|9780814757932}}
#*: Waited, got up, opened the door and saw the '''masseuse''' playing backgammon. Told him I was ready, didn&#39;t know what for. He waved me away, and I returned to the slab. By the time he came in, a mustached '''masseuse''' was sponging down a German woman on the opposite side of the marble; her husband sat on the perimeter watching (this was not a traditional hamam).
#* year unknown, Jamie Lake, ''BOOK 4 - Bad Boy: Naughty at Night: Bad Boy | Gay Romance MM Boyfriend Series'', Jamie Lake
#*: Just less than a week ago, he&#39;d said he&#39;d tell Peter&#39;s parents, his school, the press, that Peter was an erotic '''masseuse'''.
#* '''2011''', Mark D West, ''Lovesick Japan: Sex Marriage, Romance, Law'' - p.152
#*: In most massages, both the male '''masseuse''' and  the female client are naked and the focus is on erogenous zones.

====Synonyms====
* [[Thesaurus:massotherapist]]

====Hypernyms====
* {{l|en|massager}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|en|masseur}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|massage}}
* {{l|en|masseur}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a female masseur}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مُدَلِّكَة|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|масажистка|f}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|massatgista|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|masérka|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|massøse|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|masseuse|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|masaĝistino}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|hierojatar}}, {{t+|fi|hieroja}}
* French: {{t+|fr|masseuse|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Masseurin|f}}
* Italian: {{t|it|massaggiatrice}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ຫມໍນວດ}}
* Latin: {{t|la|tractātrīx|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|масерка|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|masażystka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|massagista|f}}, {{t|pt|massageadora|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|maseză|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|массажи́стка|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|masajista|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|massös|c}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|jimasetan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Massage]]
[[Category:en:People]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|nl|fr|masseuse}}, equivalent to {{af|nl|masseren|-euse}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|nl|/ˌmɑˈsøː.zə/}}
* {{audio|nl|Nl-masseuse.ogg|Audio}}
* {{hyphenation|nl|mas|seu|se}}
* {{rhymes|nl|øːzə}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|f|-s|-|m=masseur}}

# {{l|en|masseuse}}

[[Category:nl:Occupations]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|fr|LL-Q150 (fra)-WikiLucas00-masseuse.wav|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{female equivalent of|fr|masseur|gloss=masseuse}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|da|massøse|bor=1}}
* {{desc|nl|masseuse|bor=1}}
* {{desc|en|masseuse|bor=1}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}