{{also|massacré}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fr}} {{term|massacre|lang=fr}}, from {{etyl|LL.}} {{term|mazacrium|lang=la}}; compare Provincial German {{term|metzgern|lang=de}}, {{term|metzgen||to kill cattle|lang=de}}, German {{term|Metzger||a butcher|lang=de}}, and Low German {{term|matsken||to cut, hew|lang=de}}, Old High German {{term|meizan||to cut|lang=goh}}, Gothic {{term||máitan|lang=got}}. See also French {{term|massacrer|lang=fr}}
{{rfscript|Gothic}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈmæs.ə.kə(ɹ)/}}, {{SAMPA|/"m{s.@.k@(r)/}}
* {{audio|En-us-massacre.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The intentional [[killing]] of a considerable number of human beings, under circumstances of [[atrocity]] or [[cruelty]], or contrary to the usages of civilized people.
#: ''the '''massacre''' on [[w:St. Bartholomew's Day|St. Bartholomew's Day]]''
#: ''[[w:St. Valentine's Day|St. Valentine's Day]] '''massacre'''''
#: ''[[w:Amritsar|Amritsar]] '''massacre'''''
#: ''the [[w:Wounded Knee]] '''massacre'''''
# {{obsolete}} Murder.
#* '''1593''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''The Tragedy of Richard the Third''
#*: The tyrannous and bloody act is done,—
#*: The most arch deed of piteous '''massacre'''
#*: That ever yet this land was guilty of.

====Synonyms====
* [[butchery]], [[carnage]]
*: ''Massacre'' denotes the promiscuous slaughter of many who can not make resistance, or much resistance.
*:* '''1592''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Titus Andronicus, I,v''
*:*: I'll find a day to '''massacre''' them all, And raze their faction and their family
*: ''Butchery'' refers to cold-blooded cruelty in the killing of men as if they were brute beasts.
*:* '''1593''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Richard III, I,ii''
*:*: If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds, Behold this pattern of thy '''butcheries'''
*: ''Carnage'' points to slaughter as producing the heaped-up bodies of the slain.
*:* '''1674''', [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''Paradise Lost''
*:*: Such a scent I draw Of '''carnage''', prey innumerable!

====Related terms====
* [[mass murder]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|intentional mass killing}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مذبحة|f|tr=madhbaHa}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|masakr|m}}, {{t-|bs|pokolj|m}}, {{t-|bs|krvoproliće|n}}
* Chinese: {{zh-tsp|大屠殺|大屠杀|dàtúshā}}, {{zh-tsp|屠殺|屠杀|túshā}}, {{zh-tsp|慘案|惨案|cǎn'àn}}, {{zh-tsp|慘殺|惨杀|cǎnshā}}, {{zh-tsp|殺戮|杀戮|shālù}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|masakr|m|alt=masàkr}}, {{t-|hr|pokolj|m|alt=pòkolj}}, {{t-|hr|krvoproliće|n|alt=krvoprolíće}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|masakr|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|massakre|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|joukkomurha}}, {{t+|fi|verilöyly}}, {{t+|fi|teurastus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|massacre|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Massaker|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σφαγή}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|טבח}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|大虐殺|tr=daigyakusatsu}}, {{t|ja|虐殺|tr=gyakusatsu}}, {{t|ja|惨殺|tr=zansatsu}}
* Korean: [[학살#Korean|학살]]
* Latin: [[trucidatio]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|massakre}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|masakra|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|massacre}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|резня|f|tr=reznjá}},  {{t|ru|массовое убийство|n|tr=mássovoje ubíjstvo}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[масакр#Serbian|масакр]] {{m}}, [[покољ#Serbian|покољ]] {{m}}, [[крвопролиће#Serbian|крвопролиће]] {{m}}, [[сеча]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[masakr#Serbian|masakr]] {{m}}, [[pokolj#Serbian|pokolj]] {{m}}, [[krvoproliće#Serbian|krvoproliće]] {{m}}, [[seča]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[masakra]] {{f}}
* Slovene: [[pokol]] {{m}}, [[masaker]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|masacre}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|massaker|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఊచకోత]] (oochakOta)
* Welsh: [[llofruddiaeth]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|massacres|massacring|massacred}}

# {{transitive}} To kill in considerable numbers where much resistance can not be made; to kill with indiscriminate violence, without necessity, and contrary to the usages of nations; to butcher; to slaughter - limited to the killing of human beings.
#* '''1849''', [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''The History Of England From the Accession of James II''
#*: If James should be pleased to '''massacre''' them all, as Maximilian had '''massacred''' the Theban legion

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to kill in considerable numbers}}
* Bosnian: [[masakrirati#Bosnian|masakrirati]], [[poklati#Bosnian|poklati]], [[poubijati#Bosnian|poubijati]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|masakrovat}}
* Danish: [[massakrere]]
* Finnish: {{t|fi|joukkomurhata}}, {{t+|fi|teurastaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|massacrer}}
* German: {{t+|de|massakrieren}}
* Norwegian: [[massakrere]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|massacrar}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[масакрирати#Serbian|масакрирати]], [[поклати#Serbian|поклати]], [[поубијати#Serbian|поубијати]]
*: Roman: [[masakrirati#Serbian|masakrirati]], [[poklati#Serbian|poklati]], [[poubijati#Serbian|poubijati]]
* Slovene: [[poklati]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Death]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=fr|/ma.sakʁ/}}

===Verb===
{{fr-verb form}}

# {{conjugation of|massacrer||1|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|massacrer||3|s|pres|ind|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|massacrer||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|massacrer||1|s|pres|sub|lang=fr}}
# {{conjugation of|massacrer||2|s|imp|lang=fr}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|aacemrss}}
* [[sacrâmes#French|sacrâmes]]
* [[sarcasme#French|sarcasme]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
{{pt-noun-m}}

# [[massacre]]

====Related terms====
{{rel-top}}
* [[massacrar]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[massacrante]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[de:massacre]]
[[et:massacre]]
[[el:massacre]]
[[fa:massacre]]
[[fr:massacre]]
[[ko:massacre]]
[[hy:massacre]]
[[io:massacre]]
[[ku:massacre]]
[[hu:massacre]]
[[ml:massacre]]
[[pl:massacre]]
[[pt:massacre]]
[[ru:massacre]]
[[simple:massacre]]
[[fi:massacre]]
[[ta:massacre]]
[[te:massacre]]
[[vi:massacre]]
[[zh:massacre]]