{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Mass}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|mæsse|lang=ang}}, from {{LL.}} {{term|missa}}, noun use of feminine past participle of classical {{etyl|la}} {{term|mittere||release, dismiss}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/mæs/}}, {{SAMPA|/m{s/}}
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/mæs/}} or {{IPAchar|/mɑːs/}}, {{SAMPA|/m{s/}} or {{SAMPAchar|/mA:s/}}
* {{audio|en-us-mass.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æs}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{religion}} The [[eucharist|Eucharist]], now especially in Roman [[Catholicism]].
# {{context|religion}} Celebration of the [[eucharist|Eucharist]].
# {{context|religion|usually as ''the [[Mass]]''}} The [[sacrament]] of the [[eucharist|Eucharist]].
# A [[musical]] [[setting]] of parts of the mass.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|religion: Eucharist}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|misa|f|alt=mȉsa}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mis|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mise}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[maša]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
* [[Taos]]: [[mę̀so’óna]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|religion: celebration of the Eucharist}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|misa|f|alt=mȉsa}}
* Czech: [[mše]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mis|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|messu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|messe|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mise}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|msza}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|missa}}
* Slovene: [[maša]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|religion: sacrament of the Eucharist}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|misa|f|alt=mȉsa}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mis|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mise}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|musical setting of parts of the mass}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|misa|f|alt=mȉsa}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mis|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mise}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|msza}}
* Slovene: [[maša]] {{f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|mass|es}}

# {{context|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[celebrate]] mass.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|celebrate Mass}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vieren}}, {{t|nl|misvieren}}
* Finnish: [[pitää]] [[messu]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[maševati]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|xno}} {{term|masse|lang=xno}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|massa||lump, dough}}, from {{etyl|grc}} {{term|sc=polytonic|μαζα||barley-cake}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/mæs/}}, {{SAMPA|/m{s/}}
* {{audio|en-us-mass.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|æs}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es|-}}

# A [[quantity]] of [[matter]] [[cohere|cohering]] together so as to make one [[body]], or an [[aggregation]] of [[particle]]s or things which collectively make one body or quantity, usually of considerable size; as, a mass of [[ore]], metal, sand, or water.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:Sir Isaac Newton|Sir Isaac Newton]] — If it were not for these principles, the bodies of the earth, planets, comets, sun, and all things in them, would grow cold and freeze, and become inactive '''masses'''
#: {{rfdate}} Savile — A deep '''mass''' of continual sea is slower stirred to rage
# A large [[quantity]]; a [[sum]].
#: {{rfdate}} [[w:Walter Raleigh|Sir Walter Raleigh|]] — All the '''mass''' of gold that comes into Spain.
#: {{rfdate}} [[w:Sir John Davies|Sir John Davies]] — He had spent a huge '''mass''' of treasure.
# [[bulk|Bulk]]; [[magnitude]]; body; [[size]].
#: {{rfdate}} Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, IV,iv'' — This army of such '''mass''' and charge
# The [[principal]] part; the main body.
#: {{rfdate}} [[w:Benjamin Jowett|Benjamin Jowett]] (''Thucydides'') — Night closed upon the pursuit, and aided the '''mass''' of the fugitives in their escape
# {{context|physics}} The quantity of matter which a body contains, irrespective of its bulk or volume.  It is one of four fundamental [[property|properties]] of [[matter]]. It is measured in [[kilogram]]s in the [[SI]] system of measurement.
# {{context|pharmacy}} A [[medicinal]] [[substance]] made into a [[cohesive]], [[homogeneous]] lump, of [[consistency]] suitable for making pills; as, blue mass.
# {{context|medicine}} A [[palpable]] or visible abnormal [[globular]] structure; a [[tumor]].
# {{context|bodybuilding}} Excess body weight, especially in the form of [[muscle]] [[hypertrophy]].
#* '''1988''', Steve Holman, "Christian Conquers Columbus", ''[[w:Iron Man (magazine)|Ironman]]'' '''47 (6):''' 28-34.
#*: After all, muscle maniacs go "ga ga" over '''mass''' no matter how it's presented.

=====See also=====
* Customary units: [[slug]], [[pound]], [[ounce]], long [[ton]] (1.12 short tons), short ton (commonly used)
* Metric units: [[gram]] ([[g]]), [[kilogram]] ([[kg]]), [[metric ton]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rfc|these glosses have to be moved to the appropriate pages}}
* [[blue mass]] See under [[blue]]
* [[critical mass]]
* [[mass center]] ''(Geometry):'' the center of gravity of a triangle
* [[mass copper]], native copper in a large mass
* [[Planck mass]]
* [[the masses]], the great body of the people, as contrasted with the higher classes; the populace.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|quantity of matter cohering together to make one body}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hmota|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massa|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[質量]]}} ([[しつりょう]], shitsuryō)
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|masa|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|masa|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|large quantity; sum}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massa|f}}, {{t+|nl|hoeveelheid|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|masa|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bulk; magnitude; body; size}}
* Czech: [[spousta]] {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massa|f}}, {{t+|nl|hoeveelheid|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|principal part}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|většina|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|meerderheid|f}}, {{t+|nl|massa|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pääosa}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|physics: quantity of matter which a body contains}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|質量|sc=Hani|xs=Mandarin}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hmotnost|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massa|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|masse|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tömeg}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[質量]]}} ([[しつりょう]], shitsuryō)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|hmotnosť|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|masa|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|masa|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
* Urdu: [[کمیت]] (kamiat) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pharmacy: medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|massa|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|medicine: palpable or visible abnormal globular structure}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bodybuilding: excess body weight}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|massa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|маса|f|tr=mása|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Arabic}}: [[كتلة]]
* {{ttbc|Breton}}: [[oferenn]] {{f}} -où (1-1), [[tolz]] {{m}} (2-1,6), [[bern]] {{m}} -ioù {{p}}, [[tolzenn]] {{f}} -où {{p}} (2-3)
* {{ttbc|French}}: {{t+|fr|masse|f}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Masse]] {{f}} (1,3)
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: {{t-|id|massa|xs=Indonesian}} (1)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: {{t-|ia|massa|xs=Interlingua}} (1)
* {{ttbc|Polish}}: [[msza]] {{f}} (1-1,2), [[masa]] {{f}} (2-1,,6)
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: {{t+|pt|massa|f}} (1)
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[masă]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: {{t+|sv|massa}} (1,2,6)
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|mass|es}}

# {{transitive}} To [[form]] or [[collect]] into a mass; to form into a [[collective]] [[body]]; to bring together into masses; to [[assemble]].
#: {{rfdate|transform this into proper quotation}} [[Coleridge]] — But '''mass''' them together and they are terrible indeed.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|form or collect into a mass}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|samennemen}}, {{t|nl|samenhopen}}, {{t-|nl|ophopen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kerätä}}, {{t+|fi|kasata}}, [[tehdä]] {{t+|fi|massa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|összegyűjt}}, {{t+|hu|összehord}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|насобира|tr=nasóbira|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|mshikano|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:mass]]
[[zh-min-nan:mass]]
[[et:mass]]
[[el:mass]]
[[fa:mass]]
[[fr:mass]]
[[hy:mass]]
[[io:mass]]
[[it:mass]]
[[kk:mass]]
[[lo:mass]]
[[hu:mass]]
[[pl:mass]]
[[pt:mass]]
[[ru:mass]]
[[simple:mass]]
[[fi:mass]]
[[ta:mass]]
[[te:mass]]
[[th:mass]]
[[tr:mass]]
[[vi:mass]]
[[zh:mass]]