{{also|maté|matė|máte|måte|māte|mātē|Máté}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-mate.ogg|Audio (US)}}

* {{rhymes|eɪt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang}}, from 14th century {{etyl|gml}} {{term|mate#Middle_Low_German|mate|messmate}}, related to Old English {{term|gemetta||table-guest}}, derived from {{proto|Germanic|ga-maton}}, itself from Proto-Germanic[[ga-]] "together" (related to German and Dutch [[ge-]]) + {{proto|Germanic [[maton]] (from [[matiz]] "food", related to Old English {{term|mete||food|lang=ang}}).

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|especially of a [[breed]]ing [[animal]]}} A [[sexual]] partner.
# The other [[member]] of a [[match]]ed [[pair]] of objects.
#: ''I found one of the socks I wanted to wear, but I couldn't find its '''mate'''.
# {{nautical}} A [[ship]]'s [[officer]], [[subordinate]] to the [[master]] on a commercial ship. In [[naval]] ranks, a mate may also be, or be subordinate to, a particular [[non-commissioned officer]] (e.g. [[w:Boatswain's Mate|Boatswain's Mate]], [[w:Gunner's Mate|Gunner's Mate]], Sailmaker's Mate, etc).
# {{nautical}} Short for [[first mate]].
# A [[technical]] [[assistant]] in certain trades (e.g. ''gasfitter's mate'', ''plumber's mate''); sometimes an [[apprentice]].
# {{context|colloquial|British|Australian|New Zealand}} A [[friend]], colleague etc.; an informal and friendly term of address to a stranger, usually of the same sex. Often used in direct address to any male.
# {{context|colloquial|British|Australian|New Zealand}} ''(in combination)'' a fellow, associate, colleague, or someone with whom something is shared, e.g. classmate, shipmate.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[match]]
* [[partner]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:friend]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[bedmate]]
* [[bunkmate]]
* [[cellmate]]
* [[checkmate]]
* [[classmate]]
* [[crewmate]]
* [[floormate]]
* [[housemate]]
* [[mateship]]
* [[office mate]]
* [[roommate]]
* [[shipmate]]
* [[teammate]]
* [[workmate]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sexual partner}}
* Dutch: [[gezel]] {{m}}, [[partner]] {{m|f}}, [[paringsgezel]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σύντροφος|m|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ship's officer}}
* Dutch: [[maat]] {{m}}, [[scheepsmaat]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αξιωματικός|m|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|friend etc.}}
* Dutch: [[maat]](je) {{m|n}}, [[kameraad]] {{m}}, [[makker]] {{m}}, [[gabber]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φίλος|m|sc=Grek}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|友達|tr=tomodachi|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trade assistant}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gast|m}}, {{t+|nl|maat|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|συνέταιρος|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συνεργάτης|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t|el|συνάδελφος|m|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[copain]] {{m}}, [[pote]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|German}}: [[Mate]] {{m}}, [[Matt]] (5), [[Kumpel]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Japanese}}: {{t+|ja|相方|sc=Jpan}} (aikata) (2), {{t+|ja|片割れ|sc=Jpan}} (kataware) (2),{{t-|ja|王手|sc=Jpan}} (oute) (5), {{t+|ja|友達|sc=Jpan}} (tomodachi) (6)
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[జత]], [[జతగాడు]], [[జత గత్తె]], [[సహచరుడు]], [[సహాధ్యాయి]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|mates|mating|mated}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[match]], [[fit]] [[together]] without [[space]] between.
#: ''The pieces of the puzzle mate perfectly.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[copulate]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[pair]] in order to raise [[offspring]]
# {{transitive}} To [[arrange]] in matched [[pair]]s.
# {{transitive}} To [[introduce]] (animals) together for the purpose of [[breeding]].
# {{transitive}} To [[fit]] (objects) together without [[space]] between.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[couple]]
* [[match]]
* [[pair]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[mating]]

=====Translations=====
To copulate
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|paren}}

To pair in order to raise offspring
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|paren}}

To arrange in matched pairs
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|koppelen}}, {{t-|nl|paren}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: s'[[assembler]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[맞다]] (majda, mat-), (''causative'') [[맞추다]] (majchuda, mat-) (''for fitting''); [[짝짓다]] (jjagjisda, jjakjitda) (''for breeding'')
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} verb [[maten]], {{etyl|frm}} [[mater]], from {{etyl|fro}} noun[[mat]] 'checkmate', from Arabic (''māt'')

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{chess}} Short for [[checkmate|Checkmate]].

=====Translations=====
* Dutch: [[mat]], [[schaakmat]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|mates|mating|mated}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[win]] a game of [[chess]] by putting the opponent in [[checkmate]]

=====Translations=====
* Dutch: [[schaakmat]] spelen

===Etymology 3===

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{nonstandard}} {{alternative spelling of|maté}}, an aromatic tea-like [[drink]] prepared from the [[holly]] yerba maté ''(Ilex paraguariensis)''.
# The abovementioned plant; the leaves and shoots used for the tea

===Anagrams===
* [[meat]]
* [[meta]]
* [[tame]]
* [[team]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
An archaic inflexion of {{term|maat||measure|lang=nl}}, in petrified use in various contexts and expressions.

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|mates|maatje}}

# A [[measure]], [[degree]]: quantity or intensity of something abstract

====See also====
* [[maat]]

----

==Fijian==

===Etymology===
Common Oceanian; compare Hawaiian {{term|make}}, Indonesian {{term|mati}}, Maori ''mate''.

===Noun===
'''mate'''

# [[death|Death]]

[[Category:Fijian nouns]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mat/|lang=fr}}, {{SAMPA|/mat/}}

===Adjective===
{{infl|fr|adjective form}}

# {{form of|feminine|mat|lang=fr|nodot=1}}, [[dull]].

===Verb===
{{infl|fr|verb form}}

# {{form of|form|mater|lang=fr}}

----

==Galician==

===Verb===
{{gl-verb-form}}

# {{conjugation of|[[matar#Galician|matar]]||1|s|pres|sub}}
# {{conjugation of|[[matar#Galician|matar]]||3|s|pres|sub}}

----

==Maori==

===Etymology===
Common Oceanian; compare Fijian ''mate'', Hawaiian {{term|make}}, Indonesian {{term|mati}}.

===Adjective===
'''mate'''

# [[dead]]

===Noun===
'''mate'''

# [[death|Death]]

[[Category:Maori language]]

----

==Mapudungun==

===Noun===
{{infl|arn|noun|using Raguileo Alphabet}}

# The drink [[maté]], prepared of [[yerba mate]] ''(Ilex paraguariensis)''.

====See also====
* [[matetun]]

[[Category:arn:Beverages]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Verb===
{{no-verb-1|mat}}

# To [[feed]]

====Synonyms====
* [[fôre]] (about animals)

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m}}

# {{chess|lang=es}} [[#English|Mate]], [[checkmate]]
# The drink [[maté]] prepared of yerba mate ''(Ilex paraguariensis)''.
# A [[hollow]] [[calabash]] [[gourd]], in which the maté is traditionally served.
# {{context|lang=es|colloquial|Chile|Paraguay|Uruguay}} A [[head]].

====Synonyms====
* [[jaque mate]] (checkmate).

{{wikipedia|Mate (beverage)}}

===Verb===
{{es-verb-form|matar}}

# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=imperative|pers=2|formal=yes|number=singular|[[matar]]}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=1|number=singular|[[matar]]}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=2|formal=yes|number=singular|[[matar]]}}
# {{es-verb form of|ending=ar|mood=subjunctive|tense=present|pers=3|number=singular|[[matar]]}}

----

==Swahili==

===Noun===
{{infl|sw|noun}}

# [[saliva]] (liquid secreted into the mouth)

{{tbot entry|Swahili|saliva|2009|July|sw}}

[[de:mate]]
[[el:mate]]
[[es:mate]]
[[fa:mate]]
[[fr:mate]]
[[io:mate]]
[[it:mate]]
[[sw:mate]]
[[ku:mate]]
[[hu:mate]]
[[nl:mate]]
[[no:mate]]
[[pl:mate]]
[[pt:mate]]
[[simple:mate]]
[[sr:mate]]
[[fi:mate]]
[[sv:mate]]
[[ta:mate]]
[[te:mate]]
[[vi:mate]]
[[zh:mate]]