{{wikipedia|Matter (disambiguation)}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
{{rank|public|others|anything|289|matter|passed|true|friend}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}} ''[[mater#Middle English|mater, matere]]'' from {{etyl|xno}} ''[[materie#Anglo-Norman|matere, materie]]'' from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[materie#Old French|materie, matiere]]'' from {{etyl|la}} ''[[materia]]'' (matter, stuff, material), derivative of Latin ''[[mater]]'' "mother". Displaced native {{enm}} ''[[andweorc#Middle English|andweorc, andwork]]'' "material, matter" (from {{ang}} ''[[andweorc#Old English|andweorc]]'' "matter, substance, material"), {{ang}} ''[[intinga#Old English|intinga]]'' "matter, affair, business".

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈmætə/}}, {{SAMPA|/"m{t@/}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈmætɚ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"m{t@`/}}
* {{audio|en-us-matter.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ætə(r)}}
* {{hyphenation|mat|ter}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{physics}} The basic structural component of the [[universe]].  Matter usually has [[mass]] and [[volume]].
#* '''1924''': ARISTOTLE.  ''[[S:Metaphysics/Book_I|Metaphysics]]''.  Translated by W. D. Ross.  Nashotah, Wisconsin, USA: The Classical Library, 2001.
#*: ''Parmenides seems to fasten on that which is one in definition, Melissus on that which is one in '''matter''',''
# {{physics}} Matter made up of normal [[particles]], not [[antiparticles]]. (Non-[[antimatter]] matter).
# A kind of substance.
#: ''vegetable '''matter'''''
# A reason for concern; being amiss.
#: ''What's the '''matter'''?''
# A situation.
#: ''a trivial '''matter'''''
# A cause.
#: ''a '''matter''' for concern''
# Written [[material]] (especially in books or magazines)
#: ''He always took some reading '''matter''' with him on the plane''
# {{neurology}} Gray and white matter are the two nerve tissue types that comprise the [[brain]] and [[spinal cord]].

====Synonyms====
* [[material]]
* [[stuff]]
* [[substance]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the noun "matter"}}
* [[a small matter]] - Somewhat, slightly
* [[as a matter of fact]] - Actually
* [[as a matter of law]]
* [[back matter]]
* [[baryonic matter]]
* [[baryonic dark matter]]
* [[degenerate matter]]
* [[fecal matter]]
* [[for that matter]] - In regards to
* [[front matter]]
* [[gray matter]], [[grey matter]]
* [[matterless]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[matter-of-fact]]
* [[matter of record]]
* [[mind over matter]]
* [[mattery]]
* [[no matter]]
* [[organic matter]]
* [[particulate matter]]
* [[state of matter]]
* [[strange matter]]
* [[subject-matter]]
* [[what's the matter]]
* [[white matter]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|basic structural component of the universe}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|hmota|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|materie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aine}}
* German: {{t+|de|Materie|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|materia|f}}
* Japanese: [[物質]] (ぶっしつ, busshitsu)
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|materia|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|materie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|материя|f|tr=materija}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|tvar|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|materia|f}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t|fy|matearje|c|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|non-antimatter matter}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|materia}}, {{t+|fi|aine}}
* German: {{t+|de|Materie|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|materia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[物質]] (ぶっしつ, busshitsu)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вещество|n|tr=veščestvó}}, {{t+|ru|материя|f|tr=materija}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|matearje|c|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|kind of substance}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[مادة]]}} {{IPAchar|(māda)}} {{f}}
* Chinese: [[物質]], [[物质]] (wùzhì)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|stof|c}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aine}}
* French: {{t+|fr|matière|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Masse|f}}, {{t+|de|Substanz|f}}, {{t+|de|Stoff|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|anyag}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|ábhar|m|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|materia|f}}
* Japanese: [[物質]] (ぶっしつ, busshitsu)
* Korean: [[물질]] (muljil)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|matéria|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вещество|n|tr=veščestvó}},  {{t+|ru|материал|m|tr=materiál}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|materia|f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|stoff|c}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|matearje|c|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|reason for concern}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pulma}}, {{t+|fi|ongelma}}, {{t+|fi|hätä}}
* German: {{t+|de|Angelegenheit|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ügy}}, {{t+|hu|dolog}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|problema|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|sprawa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дело|n|tr=délo}},  {{t+|ru|вопрос|m|tr=voprós}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|saak|c|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|situation}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tilanne}}
* German: {{t+|de|Angelegenheit|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|argomento|m}},  {{t+|it|questione|f}},  {{t+|it|faccenda|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cause}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|důvod|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aihe}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anlass|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|causa|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|повод|m|tr=póvod}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|saak|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|neurology: nerve tissue type}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aine}}
* German: {{t+|de|Substanz|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|materia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вещество|n|tr=veščestvó}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[materie]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[matière]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[물질]] (1, 2)
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[materia]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[res]] (3, 4, 5)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[matéria]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[materia]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[materie]] {{f}}
* {{ttbc|Serbian}}: [[tvar]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[materia]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To be [[important]].
#: ''The only thing that '''matters''' to Jim is being rich.''
#: ''Sorry for pouring ketchup on your clean white shirt! - Oh, don't worry, it does not '''matter'''.''
# {{transitive|obsolete|_|except|_|dialectal}} To [[care]] about, to [[mind]]; to find important.
#* '''1749''', Henry Fielding, ''Tom Jones'', Folio Society 1973, p. 47:
#*: Besides, if it had been out of doors I had not '''mattered''' it so much; but with my own servant, in my own house, under my own roof [...]

====Derived terms====
* [[it doesn't matter]]
* [[no matter]] - In spite of

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to be important}}
* Chinese: [[事關]], [[事关]] (shì guān)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|záležet}}
* Dutch: [[belangrijk zijn]], [[er toe doen]]
* Finnish: [[merkitä]], [[olla merkitystä]], [[haitata]]
* French: {{t+|fr|importer}}
* German: [[wichtig]] sein, [[auszumachen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|importare}}, {{t+|it|contare}}
* Japanese: [[重要]]である (じゅうようである, jūyō de aru)
* Korean: [[중요]]하다 (jung-yo-hada)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|importar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|иметь}} {{t+|ru|значение|tr=imét’ značénije}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|importar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==French==

===Verb===
{{fr-verb}}

# {{alternative spelling of|mater|lang=fr}}

{{fr-conj-er|matt}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mettra#French|mettra]]

[[zh-min-nan:matter]]
[[cy:matter]]
[[et:matter]]
[[el:matter]]
[[es:matter]]
[[fa:matter]]
[[fr:matter]]
[[ko:matter]]
[[hr:matter]]
[[io:matter]]
[[it:matter]]
[[kn:matter]]
[[kk:matter]]
[[ku:matter]]
[[li:matter]]
[[hu:matter]]
[[ml:matter]]
[[my:matter]]
[[nl:matter]]
[[ja:matter]]
[[no:matter]]
[[pl:matter]]
[[pt:matter]]
[[ru:matter]]
[[simple:matter]]
[[fi:matter]]
[[sv:matter]]
[[ta:matter]]
[[te:matter]]
[[th:matter]]
[[tr:matter]]
[[vi:matter]]
[[zh:matter]]