==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/mɔːnd/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|maunde|lang=enm}}, {{term|mande|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|mand|lang=ang}}, {{term|mond||basket|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*mandō||basket}}. Cognate with Dutch {{term|mand|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|mande|lang=nds}}, archaic German {{term|Mande|lang=de}}, later influenced by {{etyl|xno|en}} and {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|mande|lang=frm}} (< {{etyl|gem|en}}). Related to {{l|en|mannequin}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|mand}}
* {{l|en|mande}}, {{l|en|mawn}}, {{l|en|mond}} {{qualifier|Scotland}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[wicker]] [[basket]].
# A unit of [[capacity]] with various specific local values.

===Etymology 2===
{{wikipedia}}
Anglicised pronunciation of a word in many southern and western Asian languages. The ''-d'' probably from assimilation with Etymology 1 above, or from comparison with [[pound]].
: Original root is unclear, but may be {{etyl|ar|en}} {{term|من|مَنّ|tr=mann|sc=Arab|lang=ar}}, {{etyl|fa|en}} {{term|من|tr=man|sc=fa-Arab|lang=fa}} or {{etyl|sa|en}} {{term|मानः|tr=man|sc=Deva|lang=sa}}. {{etyl|sa|en}} has a verb root {{term|मा|tr=ma-|sc=Deva|lang=sa}}, "to [[measure]]".
:: Possibly cognate with {{etyl|he|en}} {{term|מנה|tr=maneh|lang=he|sc=Hebr}} and {{etyl|grc|en}} {{term|mina|lang=grc}}.

====Alternative forms====
* [[mun]]
* [[man]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} A unit of weight in southern and western Asia, whose value varied widely by location.  Two maunds made one chest of opium in East India.  One maund equalled 136 [[pound]]s of opium in Turkey.
#* '''1888''', Rudyard Kipling, ‘In Flood Time’, ''In Black and White'', Folio Society 2005, p. 410:
#*: Now the rail has come, and the fire-carriage says ''buz-buz-buz'', and a hundred lakhs of '''''maunds''''' slide across that big bridge.

=====Usage notes=====
This spelling ('''maund''') is usually used for the unit in [[British India]], equal to 25&nbsp;pounds [[avoirdupois]] at [[Madras]], 28&nbsp;pounds avoirdupois at [[Bombay]] and 10&nbsp;[[troy pound]]s at [[Calcutta]]. For the equivalent unit in the [[W:Mughal Empire|Mughal Empire]] and in [[Persian]]- and [[Arabic]]-speaking countries, it is more usual to use the spelling ''[[mun]]'' or ''[[man]]'' (italicised to show that the word has not been assimilated into English).

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|unit of mass}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|من|alt=مَنّ|tr=mann|sc=Arab}}
* Assamese: {{t-|as|মোন|tr=mûn|sc=Beng}}
* Bengali: {{t+|bn|মন|tr=mana|sc=Beng}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|मन|m|tr=man|sc=Deva}}
* Kashmiri: {{t-|ks|मन्|m|tr=mana|sc=Deva}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|मण|tr=maṇa|sc=Deva}}
* Nepali: {{t-|ne|मन्|tr=mana|sc=Deva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|من|m|tr=man|sc=ps-Arab}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|من|tr=man|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Sanskrit: {{t-|sa|मानः|tr=man|sc=Deva}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|மடங்கு|tr=mṭngku|sc=Taml}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|మణుగు|tr=maṇugu|sc=Telu}}
* Urdu: {{t+|ur|من|m|tr=man|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Unclear, but possibly from {{etyl|fr|en}} {{term|mendier|lang=fr}} or {{term|quémander|lang=fr}}, "to [[beg]]". Compare {{etyl|rom|en}} {{term|mang|lang=rom}}, "to beg".

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} [[begging]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} to [[beg]]
#: {{rfquotek|Beaumont and Fletcher}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[mutter]]; to [[mumble]] or speak incoherently; to [[maunder]].

===Anagrams===
* [[dunam#English|dunam]]
* [[undam#English|undam]]

[[Category:en:Units of measure]]

[[fr:maund]]
[[ko:maund]]
[[ta:maund]]
[[te:maund]]
[[zh:maund]]