==English==
===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ae}} {{term|Mazdå||lang=ae|wisdom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# [[w:Ahura Mazda|Ahura Mazda]], the [[supreme]] and [[transcendental]] [[god]] of [[Zoroastrianism]].

===Etymology 2===
Supposedly from ''[[w:Ahura Mazda|Ahura Mazda]]''. The Japanese name derives from its founder, [[w:Jujiro Matsuda|Jujiro Matsuda]].

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# [[w:Mazda|Mazda Motor Corporation]], the Japanese [[automotive]] [[manufacturer]] マツダ株式会社 (Matsuda Kabushiki-gaisha) founded in 1920 and based in [[Hiroshima]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Mazda Motor Corporation}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[マツダ]] (Matsuda)
{{trans-bottom}}

====External links====
{{pedialite}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A vehicle of this brand, especially a car.
#* '''2003''', Kathy N. Jublou, ''Chicken Soup for the Mother and Daughter Soul'', HCI (publisher), ISBN 075730088X, page 20
#*: Nicole and I met outside the church after my bell choir rehersal. I will never forget watching her climb out of her '''Mazda''' RX7 and just keep going up, up, up. She was tall, she was blond and she was gorgeous.
#* '''2006-2007''', Debi Wright, ''Out Of Your Mind'', ''Traumatic Brain Injury'', AuthorHouse, ISBN 1434329860, page 129 
#*: <!--Then -->one of Skip’s friends from the fire department agreed to drive the U-haul with his girlfriend, pulling our '''Mazda''' behind, as we drove in the Bronco. I will never forget seeing our cats’ faces in the '''Mazda''' while we were following behind.
#* '''2007''', Jala Pfaff, Seducing the Rabbi, Blue Flax Press, ISBN 0977255808, page 310
#*: ''...''seated atop a genuine (detatched) commode of the white porcelain variety, which he had lugged at great hernia-inducing peril from the back of his '''Mazda''' to the Outdoor Cinema site, several blocks away.

====Usage notes====
This term may have trademark status.

[[ar:Mazda]]