{{also|méat}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|mete|lang=ang}}, cognate with Frisian ''mete'', Old Saxon ''meti'', {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|maz||food|lang=goh}}, Old Icelandic ''matr'', Gothic ''mats'', from a {{proto|Germanic|matiz|lang=en}}.
A ''-ja-'' derivation from the same base is found in Middle Dutch and Middle Low German ''met'' "lean pork", whence Modern Low German ''[[Mett]]'' "minced meat" (whence 16th c. German ''[[Mettwurst]]'', a kind of sausage)

Probably cognate with Old Irish ''mess'' "animal feed", Welsh ''mes'' "acorns".
The further etymology is uncertain. Some suggest derivation from a Indo-European verb base cognate with Latin {{term|madere||to be wet|lang=la}}, Greek {{term|μαστός|tr=mastos||wet, breast|lang=el}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|mēt}}, {{IPA|/miːt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/mi:t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-meat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-meat.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|iːt}}
* {{homophones|meet|mete}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{context|now|_|archaic|dialectal}} [[food|Food]], for animals or humans, especially solid food. See also {{term|meat and drink}}. {{defdate|from 8th c.}}
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Matthew XXV:
#*: I was anhongred, and ye gave me '''meate'''. I thursted, and ye gave me drinke.
#*'''1603''', {{w|John Florio}}, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', II.8:
#*:And he was pleased to accompany them in their death; for, he pined away by abstaining from all manner of '''meat'''.
#* '''1623''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''Timon of Athens'':
#*: Your greatest want is, you want much of '''meat''': / Why should you want? Behold, the Earth hath Rootes [...].
#* '''1936''', {{w|Djuna Barnes}}, ''Nightwood'', Faber & Faber 2007, p. 13:
#*: The way she said ‘dinner’ and the way she said ‘champagne’ gave '''meat''' and liquid their exact difference [...].
# {{context|now|_|rare}} A type of food, a [[dish]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#* '''1485''', {{w|Thomas Malory}}, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book X:
#*: Sir Palomydes entyrde into the castell; and within a whyle he was served with many dyverse '''metys'''.
# {{context|now|_|archaic}} A [[meal]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Matthew ch. 8:
#*: And hit cam to passe, thatt Jesus satt at '''meate''' in his housse.
# {{uncountable}} The [[flesh]] of an [[animal]] used as [[food]]. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* '''2010''', Andy Atkins, ''The Guardian'', 19 Oct 2010:
#*: While people who eat no '''meat''' at all are identified and identifiable as vegetarians, there is no commonly accepted term for people who eat it only a couple of times a week and are selective about its quality.
# {{uncountable}} Any relatively thick, [[solid]] part of a [[fruit]], [[nut]] etc. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#: ''The apple looked fine on the outside, but the '''meat''' was not very firm.''
# {{slang}} a [[penis]]. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#* '''1993''', Nancy Friday, ''Women on top: how real life has changed women's sexual fantasies'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=2it03Dzk6dEC&pg=PA538&dq=fucked+me+with+his+big+meat&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZfbvTr-iEIGwiQLgr5C1Dg&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBg page 538]
#*: He sits me on the floor (the shower is still beating down on us). He lays me down and slides his huge '''meat''' into me.
#* '''2006''' John Patrick, ''Play Hard, Score Big'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=Jyh_fpojTlsC&pg=PA54&dq=fucked+me+with+his+big+meat&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZfbvTr-iEIGwiQLgr5C1Dg&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg page 54]
#*: Just the tight, hot caress of his bowels surrounding my '''meat''' gave me pleasures I had only dreamed of before that day.
#* '''2006''', John Patrick, ''Lover Boys'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=ttYruM35FzoC&pg=PA169&dq=fucked+me+with+his+big+meat&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZfbvTr-iEIGwiQLgr5C1Dg&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAQ page 169]
#*: I went to town with my tongue, licking that big '''meat''' up and down.
#* '''2011''', Wade Wright, ''Two Straight Guys'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=5pNiqJMQZxoC&pg=PA41&dq=%22face+fucking%22&hl=en&ei=Qi3DTveEN-LniALO3rXTCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAQ page 41]
#*: Both men were completely, and very actively into this face fucking! Suddenly Bill pulled off of Jim's '''meat''' and said,
# {{countable}} A type of meat, by anatomic position and provenance. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
#: ''The butchery's profit rate on various '''meats''' varies greatly
# {{colloquial}} The [[best]] or most substantial part of something. {{defdate|from 19th c.}}
#: ''We recruited him right from the '''meat''' of our competitor.''
# {{sports}} The [[sweet spot]] of a [[bat]] or [[club]] (in cricket, golf, baseball etc.). {{defdate|from 20th c.}}
#: ''He hit it right on the '''meat''' of the bat.''
# A [[meathead]].
#: ''Throw it in here, '''meat'''.''
# {{context|Australian Aboriginal}} A [[totem]]; metonymy for its owner(s).
#* '''1949,''' ''Oceania'', Vol. XX
#*: When a stranger comes to an aboriginal camp or settlement in north-western NSW, he is asked by one of the older aborigines: "What '''meat''' (clan) are you?"
#* '''1973,''' M. Fennel & A. Grey, ''Nucoorilma''
#*: Granny Sullivan was ‘dead against’ the match at first because they did not know "what my '''meat''' was and because I was a bit on the fair side."
#* '''1977''', A. K. Eckermann, ''Group Organisation and Identity''
#*: Some people maintained that she was "sung" because her family had killed or eaten the "'''meat'''" (totem) of another group.
#* '''1992,''' P. Taylor ''Tell it Like it Is''
#*: Our family […] usually married the red kangaroo "'''meat'''".
#* '''1993,''' J. Janson, ''Gunjies''
#*: That’s a beautiful goanna. […]. He’s my '''meat''', can’t eat him.

====Usage notes====
The meaning "flesh of an animal used as food" is often understood to exclude [[fish]] and other [[seafood]]. For example, the rules for abstaining from meat in the Roman Catholic Church do not extend to fish; likewise, some people who consider themselves [[vegetarian]]s also eat fish (though the more precise term for such a person is [[pescetarian]]).

====Synonyms====
* [[flesh]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:meat]]
* {{sense|penis}} see [[Wikisaurus:penis]]

====Antonyms====
* [[drink]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from ''meat''}}
* [[beat the meat]]
* [[dead meat]]
* [[fresh meat]]
* [[meat and two veg]]
* [[meat draw]]
* [[meat hook]] / [[meathook]]
* [[meat pie]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[meat raffle]]
* [[meat tray]]
* [[meat wagon]]
* [[meatball]]
* [[meatface]]
* [[meathead]]
* [[meatman]]
* [[meaty]]
* [[sweatmeat]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|animal flesh used as food}}
* Abkhaz: {{t|ab|ажьы|tr=až'y|sc=Cyrl}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-|af|vleis|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|mish|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لحم|m|tr=laḥm|sc=Arab}}
*: [[Egyptian Arabic]]: {{tø|arz|لحمة|f|tr=laḥma|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|միս|tr=mis}}
* Aromanian: {{tø|rup|carne|f}}
* Azeri: {{t|az|ət}}
* Baluchi: {{tø|bal|گوشت|tr=gošt}}
* Bashkir: {{tø|ba|ит|tr=it|sc=Cyrl}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|мяса|n|tr=mjása|sc=Cyrl}}
* Borôro: {{tø|bor|ködü}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|месо|n|tr=mesó}}
* Burmese: {{t|my|အသား|tr=ătha:|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|carn|f}}
* Chamicuro: {{tø|ccc|pekano}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|肉|tr=juk6|sc=Hant}}
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|肉|tr=ròu|sc=Hani}}
* Chuvash: {{tø|cv|аш|tr=aş|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|maso|n}}
* Dalmatian: {{tø|dlm|cuarne|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kød|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vlees|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|viando|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|liha}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|kjøt|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liha}}
* French: {{t+|fr|viande|f}}
* Friulian: {{tø|fur|cjar}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ხორცი|tr=xortsi|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fleisch|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κρέας|n|tr=kréas}}
* Greenlandic: {{t-|kl|neqi|xs=Greenlandic}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בשר|f|tr=basar|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|गोश्त|m|tr=gośt|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|मांस|m|tr=mā̃s|sc=Deva}} / {{t|hi|माँस|m|tr=mā̃s|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hús}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kjöt|n}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|karno|xs=Ido}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|daging}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|feoil|f|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|carne|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|肉|tr=[[にく]], niku|sc=Jpan}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|ет|tr=yet|sc=Cyrl}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|សាច់|tr=sach|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|고기|tr=gogi|sc=Kore}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|эт|tr=et|sc=Cyrl}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ຊີ້ນ|tr=sīn|sc=Laoo}}
* Latgalian: {{tø|ltg|gale}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|caro|f|alt=carō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|gaļa|f|xs=Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|mėsa}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|rectu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|месо|n|tr=méso|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|daging|xs=Malay}}
* Malayalam: [[മാംസം]] (maamsam)
* Maltese: {{t|mt|laħam|m}}
* Mongolian: {{t|mn|мах|tr=mah|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|atsįʼ}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|kjøtt|n}}
** Nynorsk: [[kjøt]] {{n}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{tø|cu|мѧсо|n|tr=męso|sc=Cyrs}}
* Old Portuguese: {{tø|roa-ptg|carne}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|غوښه|f|tr=γwəxa|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|گوشت|tr=gušt|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mięso|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|carne|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|carne|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мясо|n|tr=mjáso}}
* Sanskrit: {{t|sa|मांसं|tr=mā̃san|sc=Deva}}
* Scottish Gaelic: [[feòil]] {{f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|месо|n|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|meso|n}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|මස්|tr=mas|sc=Sinh}}
* Skolt Sami: {{tø|sms|vuä´ǯǯ}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|mäso|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|meso|n}}
* Sotho: {{t+|st|nama|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|carne|f}}
* Swahili: [[nyama]] ''(noun 9/10)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kött|n}}
* Tagalog: {{t-|tl|karne|xs=Tagalog}}, {{t-|tl|laman|xs=Tagalog}}
* Tajik: {{t-|tg|гӯшт|tr=gūšt|sc=Cyrl|xs=Tajik}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|இறைச்சி|tr=iṟaicci|sc=Taml}}
* Tatar: {{t+|tt|ит|tr=it|sc=Cyrl}}
* Telugu: [[మాంసం]] (maamsam)
* Thai: {{t|th|เนื้อ|tr=néua|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|et}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|et}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|м'ясо|n|tr=m'jáso|sc=Cyrl}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|گوشت|m|tr=gośt|xs=Urdu}}, {{t|ur|مانس|m|tr=mā̃s|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|گۆش|tr=göş|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|goʻsht}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|thịt}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|mit}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|cig|m|xs=Welsh}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|fleis|n|xs=West Frisian}}
* !Xóõ: {{tø|nmn|ʘàje}}
* Yiddish: {{t-|yi|פֿלייש|n|tr=fleysh|xs=Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of meat}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|vleissoort|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لحم|m|tr=laḥm|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|միս|tr=mis}}
* Catalan: [[carn]] {{f}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{tø|yue|肉|tr=juk6|sc=Hant}}
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|肉|tr=ròu|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|maso|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kød|n}}
* Dutch: [[vleessoort]]
* Estonian: {{t+|et|liha}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liha}}
* French: {{t+|fr|viande|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fleisch|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κρέας|n|tr=kréas}}
* Hebrew: [[בשר]] (basar) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hús}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kjöt|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|carne|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|肉|tr=[[にく]], niku|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|고기|tr=gogi|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|carnis|f}}, {{t-|la|caro|f|alt=carō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|gaļa|f|xs=Latvian}}
* Malayalam: [[മാംസം]] (maamsam)
* Maltese: [[laħam]] {{m}}
* Norwegian Bokmål: [[kjøtt]] {{n}}
* Norwegian Nynorsk: [[kjøt]] {{n}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|غوښه|f|tr=γwəxa|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mięso|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|carne|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мясо|n|tr=mjáso}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|месо|n|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|meso|n}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|mäso|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|meso|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|carne|f}}
* Swahili: [[nyama]] ''(noun 9/10)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kött|n}}
* Tagalog: {{t-|tl|karne|xs=Tagalog}}, {{t-|tl|laman|xs=Tagalog}}
* Telugu: [[మాంసం]] (maamsam)
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|گوشت|tr=gošt|xs=Urdu}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|cig|m|xs=Welsh}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|fleis|n|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|any sort of flesh}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[لحم]]}} (laħm) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[միս]] (mis)
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|meso|n}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|carn|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: [[肉]] (juk6)
*: Mandarin: [[肉]] (ròu)
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|meso|n}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|maso|n}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kød|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vlees|n}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|liha}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liha}}
* French: {{t+|fr|viande|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fleisch|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σάρκα|f|tr=sárka}}
* Hebrew: [[בשר]] (basar) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hús}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kjöt|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|carne|f}}
* Japanese: [[肉]] ([[にく]], niku)
* Korean: [[고기]] (gogi)
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|carnis|f}}, {{t-|la|caro|f|alt=carō}}
* Malayalam: [[മാംസം]] (maamsam)
* Maltese: [[laħam]] {{m}}
* Norwegian Bokmål: [[kjøtt]] {{n}}
* Norwegian Nynorsk: [[kjøt]] {{n}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|غوښه|f|tr=γwəxa|sc=ps-Arab|xs=Pashto}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mięso|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|carne|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|мякоть|f|tr=mjákot’}}, {{t+|ru|мясо|n|tr=mjáso}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[месо]] {{n}}
*: Roman: [[meso#Serbian|meso]] {{n}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|mäso|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|meso|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|carne|f}}
* Swahili: [[nyama]] ''(noun 9/10)''
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kött|n}}
* Tagalog: {{t-|tl|laman|xs=Tagalog}}
* Telugu: [[మాంసం]] (maamsam)
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|گوشت|tr=gošt|xs=Urdu}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|fleis|n|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|solid edible part of a plant}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|bessó|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|vruchtvlees|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t|el|σάρκα|f|tr=sárka}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|polpa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|substance, solid part}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|bessó|m}}
* Dutch: [[substantie]], [[vlees op de botten]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tavara}}, {{t+|fi|ydin}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|viande|f}}
* Swahili: [[nyama]] ''(noun 9/10)''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sweet spot}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|meathead}}
* Dutch: [[hansworst]], [[lulvent]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|läskipää}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|totem}}
{{checktrans-top|translations to be checked}}
* {{ttbc|sq}}: [[mish]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{Arab|[[لحم]]}} (laħm) {{m}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[meso]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|br}}: [[kig]] {{m}}
* Chinese:
*: {{ttbc|yue}}: [[肉]] (juk6)
*: {{ttbc|cmn}}: [[肉]] (ròu)
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[meso]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|eo}}: [[viando]]
* {{ttbc|et}}: [[liha#Estonian|liha]]
* {{ttbc|he}}: [[בשר]] (basar) {{f}}
* {{ttbc|hi}}: [[गोश्त]] (gošt)
* {{ttbc|is}}: [[kjöt]]
* {{ttbc|smn}}: [[piärgu]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[daging]]
* {{ttbc|ja}}: [[肉]] ([[にく]], niku)
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: [[고기]] (gogi)
* {{ttbc|cuk}}: [[san]]
* {{ttbc|ku}}: [[goşt]],{{ku-Arab|[[گۆشت]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|carnis|f}}, {{t-|la|caro|f|alt=carō}}
* {{ttbc|ml}}: [[മാംസം]] (maamsam)
* {{ttbc|mt}}: [[laħam]] {{m}}
* {{ttbc|se}}: [[biergu]]
* {{ttbc|nb}}: [[kjøtt]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|nn}}: [[kjøt]]
* {{ttbc|fa}}: {{fa-Arab|[[گوشت]]}} (gošt)
* {{ttbc|pjt}}: [[kuka]]
* {{ttbc|sh}}:
*: Cyrillic: [[месо]] {{n}}
*: Roman: [[meso#Serbian|meso]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|sms}}: [[vuä´ǯǯ]]
* {{ttbc|sk}}: [[mäso]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|sl}}: [[meso]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|sw}}: [[nyama]] ''(noun 9/10)''
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[kött]] {{n}}
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[మాంసం]] (maamsam)
* {{ttbc|tet}}: [[na'an]]
* {{ttbc|bo}}: [[ཤ་]] (sha)
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[thịt]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mate#English|mate]], [[maté#English|maté]]
* [[meta#English|meta]], [[Meta#English|Meta]]
* [[tame#English|tame]]
* [[team#English|team]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Australian Aboriginal English]]
[[Category:en:Foods]]
[[Category:en:Meats]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|meat}}

# {{conjugation of|[[meo#Latin|meō]]||3|s|pres|act|ind}}

[[ar:meat]]
[[ast:meat]]
[[zh-min-nan:meat]]
[[ca:meat]]
[[cs:meat]]
[[cy:meat]]
[[de:meat]]
[[et:meat]]
[[el:meat]]
[[es:meat]]
[[eo:meat]]
[[fa:meat]]
[[fr:meat]]
[[gl:meat]]
[[ko:meat]]
[[hy:meat]]
[[hi:meat]]
[[hr:meat]]
[[io:meat]]
[[id:meat]]
[[it:meat]]
[[kn:meat]]
[[sw:meat]]
[[ku:meat]]
[[lo:meat]]
[[li:meat]]
[[hu:meat]]
[[mg:meat]]
[[ml:meat]]
[[my:meat]]
[[nl:meat]]
[[ja:meat]]
[[oc:meat]]
[[pl:meat]]
[[pt:meat]]
[[ro:meat]]
[[ru:meat]]
[[simple:meat]]
[[sr:meat]]
[[fi:meat]]
[[sv:meat]]
[[ta:meat]]
[[te:meat]]
[[th:meat]]
[[tr:meat]]
[[vi:meat]]
[[zh:meat]]