==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Meet}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|meten|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|metan|mētan|to meet, find, find out, fall in with, encounter, obtain|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|mōtijanan|to meet|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|mōd-||mad-|to come, meet|lang=en}}. Cognate with Dutch ont{{term|ontmoeten|moeten|to meet|lang=nl}}, {{etyl|nds|-}} {{term|moten|lang=nds}}, {{term|möten||to meet|lang=nds}}, Danish {{term|møde||to meet|lang=da}}, Swedish {{term|möta||to meet|lang=sv}}, Icelandic {{term|mæta||to meet|lang=is}}. Related to {{l|en|moot}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{enPR|mēt}}, {{IPA|/miːt/}}, {{SAMPA|/mi:t/}}
* {{audio|en-uk-to meet.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{audio|en-us-meet.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|iːt}}
* {{homophones|meat|mete}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|meets|meeting|met}}

# To come face to face with by [[accident]]; to [[encounter]].
#: ''Guess who I '''met''' at the supermarket today?''
#: ''Fancy '''meeting''' you here!''
# To come face to face with someone by arrangement.
#: ''Let's '''meet''' at the station at 9 o'clock.''
#: ''Shall we '''meet''' at 8 p.m in our favorite chatroom?''
# To be [[introduced]] to someone.
#: ''I'd like you to '''meet''' a colleague of mine.''
#: [[pleased to meet you]]
#: ''I '''met''' my husband through a mutual friend at a party. It wasn't love at first sight; in fact, we couldn't stand each other at first!''
# To [[converge]] and finally [[touch]] or [[intersect]].
#: ''The two streets '''meet''' at a crossroad half a mile away.''
# to [[gather]] for a formal discussion.
#: The government ministers '''met''' today to start the negotiations.
#: ''I '''met''' with them several times.''
# To [[satisfy]]; to [[comply]] with.
#: ''This proposal '''meets''' my requirements.''
#: ''The company agrees to '''meet''' the cost of any repairs.''
# To [[touch]] or [[hit]] something while moving.
#: ''The right wing of the car '''met''' the column in the garage, leaving a dent.''
# To [[adjoin]], be physically [[touching]]
#: ''The carpet '''meets''' the wall at this side of the room.''
#: ''The forest '''meets''' the sea along this part of the coast.''
# To come together in [[conflict]].
#* '''1485''', Thomas Malory, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book X:
#*: And therewythall they spurred their horsys, and '''mette''' togydirs so harde that Sir Epynogrys smote downe Sir Dynadan.
# (sports) To [[play]] a match.
#: England and Holland will '''meet''' in the final.
# To meet face-to-face.
#: ''He went to the café over there, where he '''met''' his boss in person.''

=====Usage notes=====
In sense 1, ''meet'' is sometimes used with the preposition ''with'' in American English.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''meet'' (verb)}}
* [[make ends meet]]
* [[meet-and-greet]]
* [[meet-cute]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[meet halfway]]
* [[meet one's doom]]
* [[meet one's maker]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[meet up]]
* [[meet with]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|encounter by accident}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[ontmoet]]
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{tø|ase|1@FromThumb-FingerUp-1@CenterChesthigh-FingerUp 1@Thumb-FingerUp-1@CenterChesthigh-FingerUp}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لاقى|tr=laaqaa}}, {{t|ar|صادف|tr=Saadafa}}
* Bosnian: {{t|bs|sresti}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|遇見|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|遇见|tr=yùjiàn|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|見面|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|见面|tr=jiànmiàn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|potkat}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|møde}}, {{t|da|træffe}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontmoeten}}, {{t+|nl|treffen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|renkonti|xs=Esperanto}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[tu]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tavata}}, {{t+|fi|kohdata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|rencontrer}}
* German: {{t+|de|treffen}}, {{t+|de|begegnen}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|मिलना|tr=... (se) milnā|alt=... (से) मिलना|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|találkozik}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|temu|alt=bertemu|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|temu|alt=menemui|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|incontrare}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|会う|tr=[[あう]], au}}, {{t|ja|遭遇する|tr=そうぐうする, sōgū-surú}}, {{t|ja|遭う|tr=あう, au}} {{qualifier|negative encounter}}, {{t|ja|お目にかかる|tr=おめにかかる, o-me ni kakaru}} {{qualifier|honorific}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|만나다|tr=mannada|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: {{t|la|occurro}}, {{t|la|nanciscor}}, {{t|la|coeo}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|sutikti}}, {{t|lt|susitikti}}
* Malay: [[temu|bertemu]], [[jumpa|terjumpa]]
* Persian: {{t|fa|دیدار کردن|tr=didâr kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|spotkać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encontrar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|întâlni|alt=a întâlni}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|встречать|tr=vstrečát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|встретить|tr=vstrétit’}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|tachair}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encontrar}}, {{t+|es|encontrarse}} con
* Swahili: [[kukutana]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|träffa}}, {{t+|sv|råka}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[magtagpô]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[కలుసుకొను]] (kalusukonu)
* Thai: {{t+|th|หา|tr=hā}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|karşılaşmak}}, {{t|tr|rastlamak}}, {{t|tr|rastlaşmak}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|ملنا|tr=... (se) milnā|alt=... سے ملنا|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|gặp|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: [[cwrdd]] / [[cwrdd â]], [[cyfarfod]] / [[cyfarfod â]]
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|טרעפן|tr=trefn|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|see through arrangement}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[ontmoet]]
* Arabic: {{t|ar|التقى|tr=iltaqaa}}, {{t|ar|تقابل|tr=taqaabala}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|聚會|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|聚会|tr=jùhuì|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: [[sejít]] se, [[setkat]] se
* Danish: {{t-|da|mødes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afspreken}}, {{t+|nl|treffen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kunveni|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|renkontiĝi|xs=Esperanto}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[kpe]]
* French: avoir [[rendez-vous]]
* German: {{t+|de|treffen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|incontrare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|待ち合わせる|tr=machiawaseru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|occurro}}, {{t|la|nanciscor}}, {{t|la|coeo}}
* Malay: [[jumpa|berjumpa]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encontrar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|întâlni|alt=a întâlni}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|встречать|tr=vstrečát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|встретить|tr=vstrétit’}} {{pf.}}, {{t+|ru|знакомиться|tr=znakómit'sja}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|познакомиться|tr=poznakómit'sja}} {{pf.}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|tachair}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encontrarse}}
* Swahili: [[kukutana]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|träffa}}, {{t+|sv|möta}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|ఏర్పాటు|tr=erpatu|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|buluşmak}}
* Welsh: [[cwrdd (â)]], [[cyfarfod (â)]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be introduced to}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|conèixer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|ontmoeten}}, {{t|nl|leren kennen}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|converge and touch}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|ontmoet|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|匯合|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|汇合|tr=huìhé|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: [[setkat]] se
* Danish: {{t-|da|mødes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|raken}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[kpe]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kohdata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|converger}}, {{t+|fr|toucher}}
* German: {{t+|de|treffen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|incontrarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|occurro}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encontrar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|atinge|alt=a se atinge}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сходиться|tr=sxodít’sja}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t|gd|tachair}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encontrarse}}
* Swahili: [[kukutana]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|möta}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[కలుసుకొను]] (kalusukonu)
* Turkish: {{t|tr|kesişmek}}
* Welsh: [[cwrdd (â)]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|comply}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|splnit}}
* Danish: {{t|da|opfylde}}
* Dutch: [[overeenstemmen]] met, [[beantwoorden]] aan, [[vervullen]]
* German: {{t+|de|entsprechen}}, {{t|de|gerechtwerden}}, {{t-|de|nachkommen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ottemperare}}, {{t+|it|conformarsi}}, {{t+|it|soddisfare}}
* Latin: {{t|la|satisfacio}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|satisfazer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: a [[raspunde]] (la)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отвечать|tr=otvečát’}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|llenar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|uppfylla}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|karşılamak}}
* Welsh: [[cwrdd]] (â)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|az}}: [[görüşmək]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[renkontrar]]
* {{ttbc|jbo}}: [[penmi]]
* {{ttbc|vo}}: [[kolkömön]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[sport]]s [[competition]], especially for athletics or swimming.
# A [[gathering]] of [[rider]]s, their [[horse]]s and [[hound]]s for the purpose of [[foxhunting]].
# {{rail transport}} A meeting of two trains in opposite directions on a single track, when one is put into a [[siding]] to let the other cross. (Antonym: a [[pass]].)
# A [[meeting]].
#: ''OK, let's arrange a '''meet''' with Tyler and ask him.''
# {{algebra}} the greatest lower bound, an operation between pairs of elements in a [[lattice]], denoted by the symbol [[∧]] (mnemonic: half an M)
# {{Irish}} An act of French kissing someone

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|greatest lower bound}} [[join]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''meet'' (noun)}}
* [[cornfield meet]] (train collision)
* [[dual meet]]
* [[flying meet]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[meet cute]]
* [[meet-up]]/[[meetup]]
* [[swim meet]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[track meet]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm}} {{term|mete|lang=enm}}, {{term|imete|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|gemæte|ġemǣte|suitable, having the same measurements|lang=ang}}, from the {{proto|Germanic|gamētijaz|lang=en}} (cognate with Dutch {{term|meten||measure|lang=nl}}, German {{term|gemäß||suitable|lang=de}} etc.), itself from collective prefix {{term|ge-}} + {{proto|Indo-European|med-|to measure|lang=en}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{enPR|mēt}}, {{IPA|/miːt/}}, {{SAMPA|/mi:t/}}
* {{rhymes|iːt}}
* {{homophones|meat|mete}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er}}

# [[suitable]]; [[right]]; [[proper]]
* {{seeCites}}

===References===
* {{R:Online Etymology Dictionary}} [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=meet&searchmode=none]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|book|story|deep|471|meet|interest|brother|I've}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mete#English|mete]]
* [[teem#English|teem]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English reciprocal verbs]]
[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|eːt|lang=nl}}
* {{IPA|/met/|lang=nl}}, {{SAMPA|/met/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|en|nl}}

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|g=c|meten}}

# The [[finish]] line in a competition

===Etymology 2===
See {{term|meten|lang=nl}}.

====Verb====
{{head|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|p=123|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|meten}}
# {{nl-verb-form|m=imp|meten}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mete#Dutch|mete]]

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|meet}}

# {{conjugation of|[[meo#Latin|meō]]||3|s|pres|act|sub}}

[[zh-min-nan:meet]]
[[cs:meet]]
[[cy:meet]]
[[de:meet]]
[[et:meet]]
[[el:meet]]
[[es:meet]]
[[eu:meet]]
[[fa:meet]]
[[fr:meet]]
[[gl:meet]]
[[ko:meet]]
[[hr:meet]]
[[io:meet]]
[[it:meet]]
[[kn:meet]]
[[kk:meet]]
[[ku:meet]]
[[lo:meet]]
[[li:meet]]
[[hu:meet]]
[[mg:meet]]
[[ml:meet]]
[[my:meet]]
[[nl:meet]]
[[ja:meet]]
[[pl:meet]]
[[ru:meet]]
[[simple:meet]]
[[sh:meet]]
[[fi:meet]]
[[sv:meet]]
[[tl:meet]]
[[ta:meet]]
[[te:meet]]
[[th:meet]]
[[uk:meet]]
[[vi:meet]]
[[zh:meet]]