{{also|mélt}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|meltan|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-melt.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛlt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# [[molten|Molten]] material, the product of '''melting'''.
# The transition of matter from a [[solid]] state to a [[liquid]] state.
# The springtime snow [[runoff]] in mountain regions.
# A [[melt sandwich]].
#* '''2002''', Tod Dimmick, ''Complete idiot's guide to 20-minute meals‎'':
#*: I recently asked a group of peope whether they had eaten tuna '''melts''' as a kid. Everyone remembered a version of this dish.

====Translations====

===Verb===
{{en-verb|melts|melting|'''[[melted]]''' or rarely '''[[molt]]'''|'''[[melted]]''' or '''[[molten]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To change matter from a [[solid]] state to a [[liquid]] state, usually by a gradual heat.
#: ''I '''melted''' butter to make a cake.''
# {{intransitive|ergative}} To change (or to be changed) from a solid state to a liquid state.
#: ''The snowman will disappear; he will '''melt'''.''
# {{intransitive|figuratively|colloquial}} To [[dissolve]], [[disperse]], [[vanish]].
#: ''His troubles '''melted''' away.''
# {{intransitive|colloquial}} To be very hot and [[sweat]] [[profuse]]ly.
#: ''Help me! I'm '''melting'''!''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|change from solid to liquid}} to [[found#Etymology 3|found]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to change from a solid to a liquid}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[انصهر]]}} {{IPAchar|(inʂáhara)}}
* Chinese: [[融化]], [[熔化]] (rónghuà)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|tavit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|smelten}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|fandi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sulaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fondre}} (1), {{t|fr|se dissoudre}} (2)
* German: {{t+|de|schmelzen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τήκω}}, {{t|el|λίωνω}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[funder]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|sciogliere}}, {{t+|it|fondere}}
* Japanese: [[溶ける]] ([[とける]], tokeru)
* Korean: [[녹다]] (nokda)
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Kurmanji: [[helîn]] (intransitive), [[helandin]] (transitive)
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|توانه‌وه‌|tr=twAnawa|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|smelte}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|topić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|derreter}}, {{t+|pt|fundir}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|topi}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|таять|tr=tájat’}}, {{t|ru|плавиться|tr=plávit’s’a}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|leagh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|derretir}}, {{t|es|derretirse}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|smälta}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[కరిగించు]] (karigimchu)
* Turkish: {{t|tr|erimek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to change or be changed from a solid to a liquid}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|fandiĝi|xs=Esperanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|leagh|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:Liquids]]

[[de:melt]]
[[et:melt]]
[[el:melt]]
[[fa:melt]]
[[fr:melt]]
[[gl:melt]]
[[io:melt]]
[[id:melt]]
[[it:melt]]
[[kn:melt]]
[[lo:melt]]
[[li:melt]]
[[hu:melt]]
[[ml:melt]]
[[my:melt]]
[[nl:melt]]
[[no:melt]]
[[pl:melt]]
[[fi:melt]]
[[ta:melt]]
[[te:melt]]
[[th:melt]]
[[tr:melt]]
[[vi:melt]]
[[zh:melt]]