{{also|Appendix:Variations of "men"}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|menn||men, people, human beings collectively|lang=ang}}, plural of {{term|mann||man|lang=ang}}. Cognate with {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|Männer||men|lang=de}}, {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|mænd||men|lang=da}}, {{etyl|sv|-}} {{term|män||men|lang=sv}}. More at {{l|en|man}}.

===Pronunciation===
{{wikipedia}}
* {{IPA|/mɛn/}}, {{SAMPA|/mEn/}}, {{audio|en-us-men.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛn}}

===Noun===
{{head|en|plural}}

# {{irregular plural of|man}}
# {{context|collectively}} (The) [[people]], [[humanity]]

====Quotations====
* {{seeCites}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|mennish}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|human people}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ناس|m|p|tr=naas|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|人們|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|人们|tr=rénmen|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|人|tr=rén|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|lidé|m|p}}
* Dutch: [[mensen]] {{m|p}}, men (collective singular)
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|homoj|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gens|m|p}}, {{t+|fr|hommes|m|p}}, {{t+|fr|on}}
* German: {{t+|de|Menschen|m|p}}, {{t|de|Leute|m|p}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|लोग|p|tr=log|sc=Deva}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|genti|m|p}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|人々|tr=ひとびと, hitobito|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|사람들|tr=saramdeul|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|homines|m|p}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|луѓе|tr=lúǵe}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|ludzie|m|p}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|люди|m|p|tr=ljúdi|sc=Cyrl}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|ľudia|m|p}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|لوگ|p|tr=log|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|own|old|came|107|men|come|without|make}}

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English plurals ending in "-en"]]

----

==Basque==

===Noun===
'''men'''

# A [[command]]

[[Category:Basque nouns]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Pronoun===
'''men''' (''plural'' '''[[biz]]'''; ''possessive adjective'' '''[[menim]]''')

# {{personal|lang=crh}} [[I]] (first-person singular)

{| class="prettytable"
|+ '''Inflection'''
|-
| object || [[me]]: '''[[maña]]'''
|-
| reflexive || [[myself]]: '''[[özüm]]'''
|-
| possessive || [[mine]], [[my]]: '''[[menim]]'''
|}

[[Category:Crimean Tatar pronouns]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|mein|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|mainan|damage, hurt, injustice, sin|lang=da}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/meːn/|[meːˀn]|lang=da}}

====Noun====
{{head|da|noun|head=men ''or'' mén|g=n|g2=c|singular definite|menet|or|menen|plural indefinite|[[men]]|plural definite|menene}}

# [[injury]]

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=da}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/mɛn/|[mɛn]|lang=da}}

====Conjunction====
{{head|da|conjunction}}

# [[but]]
# {{qualifier|as a noun}} [[but]], [[catch]], [[hitch]], [[snag]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɛn|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===
An unstressed variety of {{term|man|lang=nl}}.

====Pronoun====
{{head|nl|pronoun|cat2=indefinite pronouns}}

# {{indefinite|lang=nl}} [[one|One]], [[they]], (the) people; indefinite third-person singular pronoun: ''Men zegt dat...'' (People say that...; It is said that...)
# All [[humanity]], [[everyone]]; public opinion.

=====Related terms=====
* [[iemand]]
* [[niemand]]

===Etymology 2===
origin unclear

====Verb====
{{head|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|mennen}}
# {{nl-verb-form|m=imp|mennen}}

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation 1===
{{rfc-pron-n|Pronunciation 1|lang=fo}}
* {{IPA|[meːn]|lang=fo}}

====Noun====
'''men''' {{f}}

# {{rare|Mykines|lang=fo}} The [[spinal cord]]

=====Declension=====
{{fo-decl-noun-f2|men}}
{{fo-decl-noun-f6|men}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{qualifier|common}} [[møna]]

===Pronunciation 2===
* {{IPA|[mɛnː]|lang=fo}}

====Conjunction====
'''men'''

# [[but]]

[[Category:Faroese conjunctions]]
[[Category:Faroese nouns]]

----

==Haitian Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|ht}} {{term|main||hand|lang=fr}}.&nbsp;

===Noun===
{{head|ht|noun}}

# [[hand]] <!-- This language section up to here was created using Template:new ht entry -->

----

==Italian==

===Adverb===
{{head|it|adverb}}

# {{apocopic form of|meno|lang=it}}

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=めん}}

# [[麺]]: A [[noodle]]
# [[綿]]: The material [[cotton]]
# [[面]]: A [[face]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
{{cmn-pinyin}}

# {{pinyin reading of|們|们}} a suffix indicating plural for pronouns and human nouns

===Romanization===
'''men'''

# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[mēn]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[mén]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[měn]]}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|lang=cmn|sc=Latn|[[mèn]]}}

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin entries with audio links]]
[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology 1===
Via Swedish and Danish {{l|sv|men}}, from Old Norse [[meðan]] ("while").

====Conjunction====
{{head|nb|conjunction}}

# [[but|But]], [[however]]; introducing a clause that contrasts with the preceding clause, sentence or common belief.
# [[though]]
# [[only]]
#: ''Han er en fin kar, '''men''' han snakker litt for mye.'' – He is a nice guy, '''but''' he talks a bit too much.

===Etymology 2===
From Old Norse [[mein]].

====Noun====
{{head|nb|noun}}

# [[damage]]; [[injury]] (also [[mén]])
# [[permanent]] [[disability]]
# [[difficulty]]; [[drawback]]

====Alternative forms====
* [[mein]]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology 1===
Via Swedish and Danish {{l|sv|men}}, from Old Norse [[meðan]] ("while").

====Conjunction====
{{head|nn|conjunction}}

# [[but|But]], [[however]]; introducing a clause that contrasts with the preceding clause, sentence or common belief.
# [[though]]
# [[only]]
#: ''Han er en fin kar, '''men''' han snakker litt for mye.'' – He is a nice guy, '''but''' he talks a bit too much.

===Etymology 2===
From Old Norse [[mein]].

====Noun====
{{head|nn|noun}}

# [[damage]]; [[injury]] (also [[mén]])
# [[permanent]] [[disability]]
# [[difficulty]]; [[drawback]]

====Alternative forms====
* [[mein]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology 1===
[[Old Swedish]] ''men'', from {{etyl|gml|sv}} ''men, man'' ’but, only’, probably from [[Old Saxon]] ''[[niwan]]''; possibly under the influence of Old Swedish ''men'' ’while, during’ (modern Swedish: ''[[medan]], [[medans]], [[mens]]'').

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/mɛn/|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-men.ogg|audio}}

====Conjunction====
{{head|sv|conjunction}}

# [[but]]; introducing a clause that contrasts with the preceding clause, sentence or common belief.
# [[yet]], [[but]], [[however]]
#: ''John har bott i staden i fem år, '''men''' aldrig besökt slottet.''
#:: John has lived in the city for five years, yet never visited the castle.

===Etymology 2===
Like [[Icelandic]] and [[Norwegian]] ''[[mein]]'', [[Old Saxon]] {{term|men|mēn|lang=osx}}, [[Old English]] {{term|man|mān|lang=ang}}; cognate of [[Icelandic]] ''[[meinn]]'' ’which causes injury’ (adjective), [[Old English]] ''mĕn, mæ̆ne'' ’evil, deceptive’ (adjective), [[Lithuanian]] ''[[maĭnas]]'' ’change’ (noun), [[Proto-Slavic]] ''měna'' ’change’ (noun); from the [[Indo-European]] root ''mei-'' ’switch’ (verb).

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/meːn/|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=n}}

# a [[handicap]], long-time remnant of a physical or mental [[injury]], which affects a person negatively

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[menlös]]

----

==Turkmen==

===Pronoun===
{{head|tk|pronoun}}

# {{personal|lang=tk}} [[I]]

====Declension====
{{tk-decl-noun-man
|men|biz
|meni|bizi
|meniň|biziň
|maňa|bize
|mende|bizde
|menden|bizden
}}

[[af:men]]
[[ca:men]]
[[cs:men]]
[[cy:men]]
[[da:men]]
[[de:men]]
[[et:men]]
[[el:men]]
[[es:men]]
[[eo:men]]
[[fr:men]]
[[ko:men]]
[[io:men]]
[[id:men]]
[[it:men]]
[[ka:men]]
[[sw:men]]
[[ku:men]]
[[lt:men]]
[[li:men]]
[[hu:men]]
[[mg:men]]
[[ml:men]]
[[my:men]]
[[nl:men]]
[[ja:men]]
[[no:men]]
[[pl:men]]
[[pt:men]]
[[ru:men]]
[[simple:men]]
[[fi:men]]
[[sv:men]]
[[ta:men]]
[[te:men]]
[[chr:men]]
[[tr:men]]
[[uk:men]]
[[vi:men]]
[[vo:men]]
[[zh:men]]