==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|la|metaphysica}}, from {{der|en|gkm|μεταφυσικά}}, from the title of the collection by Aristotle {{m|grc|[[μετά|μετὰ]] [[τά|τὰ]] [[φυσικά]]}}, a collection that comes after ({{m|grc|μετά}}) Aristotle's collection entitled {{m|grc|[[τά|τὰ]] [[φυσικά]]}}, from {{m|grc|φυσικός||natural}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/mɛtəˈfɪzɪks/|lang=en}}
* {{enPR|mĕ'təfĭziks}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~|metaphysics}}

# {{lb|en|philosophy|uncountable}} The branch of [[philosophy]] which studies [[fundamental]] [[principles]] intended to describe or explain all that is, and which are not themselves explained by anything more fundamental; the study of first principles; the study of [[being]] insofar as it is being (''ens in quantum ens'').
#: ''Philosophers sometimes say that '''metaphysics''' is the study of the ultimate nature of the universe.''
# {{lb|en|philosophy|countable}} The [[view]] or [[theory]] of a particular philosopher or school of thinkers concerning the first principles which describe or explain all that is.
#: ''The '''metaphysics''' of Thomas Aquinas holds that all real beings have both essence and existence.''
#: ''In Aristotelian '''metaphysics''' physical objects have both form and matter.''
#: ''In his ''Pensées'', Pascal mentioned some first principles recognized within his '''metaphysics''': space, time, motion, and number.''
# {{lb|en|logic|uncountable|by extension from the philosophical sense}} The [[metalogic]] of physics; The logical framework of [[physics]].
#: ''Even other universes should be a result of different physics. Without rules, these universes wouldn't exist, because they will have an undefined, thus impossible, nature. We will never understand or guess all possible forms of physics. That's why we have to understand the generic '''metaphysics'''.''
# {{lb|en|uncountable|by extension from the philosophical sense}} Any fundamental principles or rules.
#* '''1990''' Jan. 1, Lance Morrow, "[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,969082,00.html Gorbachev: The Unlikely Patron of Change]," ''Time'':
#*: The '''metaphysics''' of global power has changed. Markets are now more valuable than territory.
# {{lb|en|uncountable}} The study of a [[supersensual]] realm or of phenomena which [[transcend]] the physical world.
#: ''I have a collection of books on '''metaphysics''', covering astral projection, reincarnation, and communication with spirits.''
# {{lb|en|uncountable}} [[displeasing|Displeasing]]ly [[abstruse]], [[complex]] material on any subject.
#: ''This political polemic strikes me as a protracted piece of overwrought, fog-shrouded '''metaphysics'''!''

===Noun===
{{head|en|noun plural form}}

# {{plural of|metaphysic|lang=en}}

====Meronyms====
* {{l|en|ontology}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|metaphysical}}
* {{l|en|metaphysician}}
* {{l|en|metaphysicist}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|physics}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|branch of philosophy that studies first principles}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|բնազանցություն}}, {{t+|hy|մետաֆիզիկա}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|метафизика|f|tr=metafízika|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|metafísica|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|形而上學|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|形而上学|tr=xíng'érshàngxué|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|形上|tr=xíngshàng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|metafyzika|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|metafysik}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|metafysica}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|metafiziko}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|metafysiikka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Metaphysik|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μεταφυσική|f}}
* Gujarati: {{t|gu|તત્ત્વમીમાંસા}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|metafizika}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|metafiziko}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|metafisika}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|metaphysica}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|meitifisic|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|形而上学|tr=けいじじょうがく, keijijōgaku|sc=Jpan}}
* Khmer: {{t+|km|បរមត្ថវិជ្ជា|tr=pakrakmat vityea|sc=Khmr}}, {{t|km|អស្តិរូបវិជ្ជា|sc=Khmr|tr=ɑhsdə ruup viccie}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|형이상학}} ({{t+|ko|形而上學}})
* Latin: {{t|la|metaphysica|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|metafizika|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|метафизика|f|tr=metafízika}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|metafysikk}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|metafizyka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|metafísica|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|метафи́зика|f}}
* Scots: {{t|sco|metapheisics}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|metafyzika|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|metafizika|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|metafísica|f}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|metafizikia}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|higliknayan}}, {{t|tl|labawsugnayan}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|metafizik}}, {{t|tr|mabaduttabiyye}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|siêu hình học}}
* Walloon: {{t|wa|metafizike|f}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|מעטאַפֿיזיק|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English words prefixed with meta-]]