==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{blend|metropolitan|heterosexual|lang=en}}. Coined in 1994 by journalist {{w|Mark Simpson (journalist)|Mark Simpson}}.<ref>"[http://www.theawl.com/2014/08/a-decade-later-whither-the-metrosexual A Decade Later, Whither the Metrosexual]". King-Slutzky, Johannah. ''[[:w:The Atlantic|The Atlantic]]''. August 27, 2014</ref>

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[metro-|metro]][[sexual]]}}

# A man concerned with personal appearance, such as personal grooming, fashion, and aesthetics in general. (Usually [[urban]], [[heterosexual]], often [[affluent]]). <!-- A concern for personal image is interpreted socially as being "homosexual" in some social circles, leaving "Gay Straight Male" as the logical terminology in that social context to describe a straight male concerned with fashion and personal appearance.-->
# A man who is seen, [[sociologically]], as having attributes common to [[homosexuals]], but is in fact [[heterosexual]].

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|boulevardier}}
* [[dandy]] {{qualifier|19th Century}}
* [[fop]] {{qualifier|19th Century}}
* [[dude]], [[dood]] {{qualifier|archaic}}
* {{l|en|man about town}}
* [[masher]] {{qualifier|archaic}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|man concerned with personal appearance}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|метросексуален|tr=metroseksualen}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|metrosexual}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|都市美男|tr=dūshì měinán|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|型男|tr=xíngnán}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|metrosexuál}}
* Danish: {{t|da|metrosexuel}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|metroseksueel}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|metroseksulo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|metroseksuaal}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|metroseksuaali}}, {{t+|fi|hienostelija}}, {{t+|fi|keikari}}
* French: {{t+|fr|métrosexuel|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Metrosexueller|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מטרוסקסואל|tr=metroseksual}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|metroszexuális}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|metrosessuale}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|メトロセクシャル|tr=metorosekusharu|sc=Jpan}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|metroseksualas}}
* Piedmontese: {{t|pms|gadan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|metroseksualny}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|metrossexual|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|metrosexual}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|метросексуа́л|m|tr=metrosɛksuál}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|метросексуалан|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|metrosexual}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|metrosexuell}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|metroseksüel}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|vitellone|m}} <!--This doesn't seem to be correct: see my comment on the discussion page - Paul G-->
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of or relating to a metrosexual or the metrosexual lifestyle.

===See also===
* [[ambisexual]]
* [[gender-bender]]
* [[unisex]]
* [[machosexual]]
* [[Appendix:American Dialect Society words of the year]]

Включаем камеру в режиме ночной съёмки, снимаем кровавые надписи на левой стенке, получаем заметку организованная пытка.
Друзья и родственники с готовностью помогут Вам в решение некоторых вопросов и проблем.
Каждый видит фантастику по своему.
Самое время ехать в Европу, но не просто на экскурсии, а на всевозможные праздники и музыкальные фестивали.
Любовь не имеет ничего общего с привязанностью.
 
cccp

==Catalan==

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|metrosexual}}

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m|metrosexuales}}

# {{l|en|metrosexual}}

===Adjective===
{{es-adj|pl=metrosexuales}}

# {{l|en|metrosexual}}

[[Category:es:Sexuality]]

[[et:metrosexual]]
[[fr:metrosexual]]
[[pl:metrosexual]]
[[pt:metrosexual]]
[[fi:metrosexual]]
[[sv:metrosexual]]