{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmɛtɹɪk/}}, {{SAMPA|/"mEtrIk/}}
* {{hyphenation|met|ric}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr}} ''[[métrique]]'' (1864) < {{NL.}} {{term|metricus||pertaining to the system based on the meter}} < {{term|metrum||a meter}}; see [[meter]].

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# of or relating to the [[metric system]] of [[measurement]]
# {{music}} of or relating to an even-note pattern or [[rhythmic unit]] which coincides with the [[pulse]]s on a [[metric level]]. (DeLone et. al. (Eds.), 1975, chap. 3) {{rfc|music definition needs rewritten because the current one is copyrighted}}

====Derived terms====
* [[metric carat]]
* [[metric level]]
* [[metric system]]
* [[metric space]]
* [[metric structure]]

====Related terms====
* [[contrametric]]
* [[extrametric]]
* [[intrametric]]
* [[metrical]]

====References====
* DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465. Ch. 3.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|relating to metric system}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|metrický|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|metrinen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|métrique}}
* German: {{t-|de|metrisch}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|metrico}}
* Latin: [[metricus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|метрички|m|tr=métrički|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Polish: [[metryczny]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|метрический|tr=metríčeskij|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: [[métrico]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|metrisk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|relating to even-note pattern}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|metrico}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[metricus]]
* {{ttbc|Persian}}: {{fa-Arab|[[متریک]]}} (metrik)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[measure]] for something; a means of deriving a [[quantitative]] [[measurement]] or [[approximation]] for otherwise [[qualitative]] [[phenomena]] (esp. used in Software Engineering)
# {{mathematics}} A measurement of the "distance" between two points in some [[metric space]]: it is a function ''d''(''x'',''y'') between points ''x'' and ''y'' satisfying the following properties: (1) "[[positive definiteness]]": <math> d(x,y) \ge 0 </math> and <math> d(x,y) = 0 \mbox{ iff } x=y </math>, (2) "[[symmetric|symmetry]]": <math> d(x,y) = d(y,x) </math>, and (3) "[[triangle inequality]]": <math> d(x,y) \le d(x,z) + d(z,y) </math>.

====Synonyms====
* [[measure]]

====Derived terms====
* [[Euclidean metric]]
* [[Hausdorff metric]]
* [[uniform metric]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|measure}}
* French: [[métrique]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|metrica|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|метрика|f|tr=métrika|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mathematics}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|metrika|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|metriikka}}
* French: [[métrique]]
* Hungarian: [[metrika]] (2)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|metrica|f}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|метрика|f|tr=métrika|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|метрика|f|tr=métrika|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|metrik|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[avoirdupois]]

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[et:metric]]
[[fr:metric]]
[[ko:metric]]
[[io:metric]]
[[id:metric]]
[[hu:metric]]
[[pl:metric]]
[[ru:metric]]
[[fi:metric]]
[[sv:metric]]
[[ta:metric]]
[[vi:metric]]
[[zh:metric]]