{{wikipedia}}
{{also|mexican}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|es|en}} {{term|Mexicano|lang=es}}, from {{etyl|nah|en}} {{term|Mexihcah|Mēxihcah|lang=nah}} plural of {{term|Mexihcatl|Mēxihcatl|a [[Mexica]]|lang=nah}} + {{term|-ano||[[-an]]|lang=es}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmɛks.ɪ.kən/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[Mexica]]; an [[Aztec]].
#* '''1660:''' [[w:Joseph Hall (bishop)|Joseph Hall]], ''The Shaking of the Olive-Tree'', p. 260
#*: Surely, nature it ſelf calls to us for this reſpect to a deity, even the very ſavage Indians may teach us this point of religion; amongſt whom we find the '''''Mexicans''''', a people that had never had any intercourſe with the other three parts of the World, Eminent in this kinde; what ſumptuous, and ſtately Temples had they erected to their Devils: How did they enrich their miſ-called Gods with Magazins of their treaſure?
#* '''1677:''' Richard Gilpin, ''Daemonologia Sacra, or, a Treatise of Satans Temptations'', pp. 255&ndash;256
#*: Not unlike to this were thoſe ''morſels'' of Paſte, which the '''''Mexicans''''' uſed in their Religious Feaſts, which they laid at their Idols Feet, conſecrating them by Singing and other Ceremonies, and then they called them ''the Fleſh and Bones'' of their God ''Vitziliputzli''
#* '''1782:''' review of ''Storia antica del Messico'', in ''The Critical Review: Or, Annals of Literature'', vol. 54, p. 144
#*: The Aztecheſe, or '''Mexicans''', were the laſt who arrived in Anahuac.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} The [[Nahuatl]] language.
#* '''1856:''' Arthur Helps, ''The Spanish Conquest in America'', vol. 2, p. 239
#*: Painala was in the Mexican province of Coatzacualco: she was accordingly able to speak '''Mexican'''.
# A person from [[Mexico]] or of Mexican descent.
#* {{quote-news
|year=2011
|date=October 15
|author=Phil McNulty
|title=Liverpool   1 - 1   Man Utd
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15225853.stm
|page=
|passage=The '''Mexican''' levelled nine minutes from time after Steven Gerrard, making his first start since undergoing groin surgery in April, put Liverpool ahead with a 68th-minute free-kick.}}
# {{context|US|slang|offensive|lang=en}} A person from, or of descent from, any Spanish-speaking country.
# The Mexican dialect of [[Spanish]].
#* '''1970''', Stan Steiner, ''La raza: the Mexican Americans'', page 224
#*: "You see, I never learned to speak Spanish, but speak '''Mexican''' fluently," he says disarmingly.
#* '''1998''', Richard Montoya, Ricardo Salinas, Herbert Siguenza, ''Culture Clash: Life, Death, and Revolutionary Comedy'', page [http://books.google.com/books?id=-1KilWXcLOQC&pg=PA23&dq=speak+mexican&lr=&ei=vAi4SMWIHIHaygSZ_pzHBA&sig=ACfU3U2yOrvwXAizs7qPJEcGcBBdfonzEw 23]
#*: You really scare me when you speak '''Mexican'''.
#* '''2000''', Ben K. Green, ''The Village Horse Doctor: West of the Pecos'', page 87
#*: I didn't speak much '''Mexican''', but I savvied a lot more than I could speak and picked the word banditos out of their conversation.
# {{context|Australia|slang|Queensland|lang=en}} A person from either of the southern states of New South Wales and Victoria.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|Mexica}} [[Mexica]], [[Aztec]]
* {{sense|language}} [[Nahuatl]], [[Aztec]]

====Translations====
{{trans-see|Mexica|[[Mexica]]}}

{{trans-see|Nahuatl language|[[Nahuatl]]}}

{{trans-top|person from Mexico or of Mexican descent}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مكسيكي|m|tr=maksikiy}}, {{t|ar|مكسيكية|f|tr=maksikíyya}}
* Asturian: {{t+|ast|mexicanu|m}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|мексіка́нец|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|be|мексіка́нка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|мексиканец|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|bg|мексиканка|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|mexicà|m}}, {{t|ca|mexicana|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|墨西哥人|tr=Mòxīgērén|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|Mexičan|m}}, {{t|cs|Mexičanka|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|mexicaner}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Mexicaan|m}}, {{t+|nl|Mexicaanse|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|meksikiano}}, {{t|eo|meksikianino}} {{qualifier|woman}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|mehhiklane}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|meksikolainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Mexicain|m}}, {{t+|fr|Mexicaine|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|mexicano|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mexikaner|m}}, {{t+|de|Mexikanerin|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Μεξικάνος|m|sc=Grek}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|Mekiko}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mexikói}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|messicano}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|メキシコ人|tr=Mekishiko-jin}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|meksikānis|m}}, {{t|lv|meksikāniete|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|meksikietis|m}}, {{t+|lt|meksikietė|f}}
* Marathi: {{t|mr|मेक्सिकन|tr=meksikana|sc=Deva}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|Naakáí dinéʼiʼ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|mexicaner|m}}, {{t|nb|meksikaner|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|nn|mexican|m}}, {{t+|nn|mexicanar|m}}, {{t+|nn|meksikan|m}}, {{t+|nn|meksikanar|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Meksykanin|m}}, {{t+|pl|Meksykanka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mexicano|m}}, {{t|pt|mexicana|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|mexican|m}}, {{t+|ro|mexicană|f}}, {{t|ro|mexicancă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мексиканец|m|tr=meksikánec}}, {{t+|ru|мексиканка|f|tr=meksikánka}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|Meksikanac|m}}, {{t|sh|Meksikanka|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Mexičan|m}}, {{t|sk|Mexičanka|f}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|Mehičan|m}}, {{t|sl|Mehičanka|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mexicano}}, {{t+|es|mejicano|m}}, {{t+|es|mexicana}}, {{t|es|mejicana|f}}; {{t+|es|charro|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Mmeksiko}}
* Swedish: {{qualifier|male or neutral}} {{t+|sv|mexikan|c}}, {{qualifier|female}} {{t+|sv|mexikanska|c}}
* Taos: {{t|twf|kwę́na}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Meksikalı}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Mexican dialect of Spanish}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|meksikonespanja}}
* German: {{t|de|Mexikanisch|n}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|mexicană|f}}, {{t|ro|spaniolă mexicană|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mexicano}}, {{t+|es|mejicano|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|Kimeksiko}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Of or pertaining to the [[Mexica]] people.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} Of or pertaining to the [[Nahuatl]] language.
#* '''1795:''' W. Winterbotham, ''An Historical, Geographical, Commercial, and Philosophical View of the American United States'', vol 4, p. 87
#*: The principal grain of Mexico, before the introduction of thoſe from Europe, was maize, in the '''Mexican''' language called tluolli, of which there were ſeveral kinds, different in ſize, weight, colour, and taſte.
#* '''1810:''' review of "Political Essay on the Kingdom of New Spain", in ''The Eclectic Review''
#*: The language most universally diffused over the new continent, is the Aztec or '''Mexican'''.
# Of, from, or pertaining to [[Mexico]].

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|people}} [[Mexica]], [[Aztec]]
* {{sense|language}} [[Nahuatl]], [[Aztec]]

====Translations====
{{trans-see|of or pertaining to the Mexica people|[[Mexica]]}}

{{trans-see|of or pertaining to Nahuatl language|[[Nahuatl]]}}

{{trans-top|of or pertaining to Mexico}}
* Asturian: {{t+|ast|mexicanu}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|мексіка́нскі|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|mexicà|m}}, {{t|ca|mexicana|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mexický|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|mexicansk}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Mexicaans}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|meksikia}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|meksikolainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mexicain|m}}, {{t+|fr|mexicaine|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|mexicano}}
* German: {{t+|de|mexikanisch}}
* Hawaiian: {{t|haw|Mekiko}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Mexicanensis|m|f}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|mexicansk}}, {{t|nb|meksikansk}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|nn|mexicansk}}, {{t+|nn|meksikansk}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|meksykański|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mexicano}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|mexican|m}}, {{t+|ro|mexicană|f}}, {{t|ro|mexicani|m-p}}, {{t|ro|mexicane|f-p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мексиканский|tr=meksikánskij}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|mexický}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mexicano}}, {{t+|es|mejicano}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mexikansk}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top2}}
* [[Mexican breakfast]]
* [[Mexican jumping bean]]
* [[Mexican poppy]]
* [[Mexican stocks]]
{{mid2}}
* [[Mexican standoff]]
* [[Mexican tea]]
* [[Mexican wave]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:en:Demonyms]]
[[Category:en:Nationalities]]

[[ca:Mexican]]
[[cs:Mexican]]
[[et:Mexican]]
[[es:Mexican]]
[[fa:Mexican]]
[[fr:Mexican]]
[[ko:Mexican]]
[[io:Mexican]]
[[sw:Mexican]]
[[lt:Mexican]]
[[hu:Mexican]]
[[nl:Mexican]]
[[nn:Mexican]]
[[pl:Mexican]]
[[ro:Mexican]]
[[fi:Mexican]]
[[sv:Mexican]]
[[zh:Mexican]]