{{also|Michaël}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Vulgate {{etyl|la|}} {{term|Michael|lang=la}}, {{term|Michahel|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|he}} {{term|sc=Hebr|מיכאל|tr=mikhael||who is like God?|lang=he}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|mī'kəl}}, {{IPA|/ˈmaɪkəl/}}, {{SAMPA|/"maIk@l/}}
* {{audio|en-us-Michael.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|aɪkəl}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|from=Hebrew|}}.
#* '''1629''' [[w:Thomas Adams (clergyman)|Thomas Adams]], ''Meditations upon Creed'', The Works of Thomas Adams, James Nichol (1862), Vol.III, page 212:
#*: Yea, it seems to me not fit for Christian humility to call a man ''Gabriel'' or '''''Michael''''', giving the names of angels to the sons of mortality.
#* '''2008''' [[w:Philip Hensher|Philip Hensher]], ''The Northern Clemency'', Harpercollins, ISBN 9780007174799, page 498
#*: He works in the steelworks, the boyfriend, on the factory floor. I'd say that was quite unusual, he's called '''Michael'''. Insists on that, he does, not being called Mike or Micky or Mick, pretends not to hear you, then, "No, my name's actually '''Michael'''."
# {{context|Judaism|Christianity}} An [[archangel]] associated with defending [[Israel]] in the [[tribulation]].
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Daniel|12|1}}
#*: And at that time shall '''Michael''' stand up, the great prince that standeth for the children of thy people.
#* {{RQ:Authorized Version|Revelation|12|7}}
#*: And there was war in heaven: '''Michael''' and his angels fought against the dragon.

====Derived terms====
* [[take the Michael]]

====Related terms====
* {{sense|pet forms}} [[Mick]], [[Mickey]], [[Micky]], [[Mike]], [[Mikee]] , [[Mikey]]
* {{sense|variants}} [[Miles]], [[Mitchell]]
* {{sense|feminine forms}} [[Michaela]], [[Michele]], [[Michelle]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|male given name}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|Mëhill|m|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ميخائيل|m|tr=mikhaʼiil}}, {{t|ar|مايكل|m|tr=maykl}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|Միքայել|tr=Mik'ayel}}
* [[Basque]]: [[Mikel]]
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|Mihajlo|m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[Michel]]
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|Михаил|tr=Mihail}}, {{qualifier|transliteration}} {{t|bg|Майкъл|m|tr=Majkăl}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[Miquel]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|麥可|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|麥可|tr=Màikě|sc=Hani}}; {{t|cmn|邁克爾|sc=Hani}},  {{t|cmn|迈克尔|tr=Màikè'ěr|sc=Hani}}
* [[Cornish]]: [[Mygal]]
* Croatian: {{t|hr|Mihovil|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Michal}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|Michael}}, {{t-|da|Mikael}}
* Dutch: [[Michiel]], [[Michaël]], [[Michel]], [[Maikel]]
* Esperanto: [[Mikelo]]
* Estonian: {{t-|et|Miikael}}, {{t-|et|Mihkel}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|Mikkjal|xs=Faroese}}, {{t-|fo|Mikal|xs=Faroese}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Mikko}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Michel}}
* [[Galician]]: [[Miguel#Galician|Miguel]]
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მიხეილი|tr=mikheili|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Michael}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Μιχαήλ|m|tr=Michaíl}}, {{t-|el|Μιχάλης|m|tr=Michális}}
* Hawaiian: {{tø|haw|Mikaʻele|xs=Hawaiian}}, {{tø|haw|Mikala|xs=Hawaiian}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מיכאל|tr=Mikha'el}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Mihály}}
* Irish: [[Mícheál]], [[Mícéal]]<!-- these belong in the main Irish article: diminutive:[[Maidhc]]-->
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Michele}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|マイケル|tr=Maikeru}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|마이클|tr=Maikeul|sc=Hang}}, {{t|ko|미카일|tr=Mikail|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: [[Michaelus]]
* Latvian: [[Miķelis]], {{qualifier|transliteration}} {{t|lv|Maikls|m}}
* Lithuanian: [[Mikalos]]
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|Михаил|tr=Míhail}}
* Maltese: [[Mikiel]]
* [[Northern Sami]]: {{tø|se|Mihkkal}}, {{tø|se|Mikkal}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Mikael}}
* [[Old High German]]: [[Michel]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Michał}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Miguel|m}} 
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|Mihai}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Михаил|m|tr=Mixaíl}} (''cognate''), {{t+|ru|Майкл|m|tr=Majkl}} (''transliteration'')
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Mìcheal|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|Михајло|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sr|Mihajlo|m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|Michal}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Mihael}}, {{t+|sl|Miha}}
* Spanish: [[Miguel]], [[Máicol]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Mikael}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Mikail}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|Михайло|m|tr=Myxájlo|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t|uk|Mихаїл|m|tr=Myxajíl|xs=Ukrainian}} {{qualifier|especially Biblical, influenced by Church Slavonic}}<!--put the following in the main Ukrainian article: diminutive: [[Михась]] (Мykhás’), [[Михайлик]] (Mykhájlyk), [[Михасик]] (Mykhásyk), Михасько (Mykhás’ko), Місько (Mís’ko), Місьо (Mís’o)-->,  {{t|uk|Майкл|m|tr=Majkl|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Welsh: [[Meical]]
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|מיכאל|m|tr=Mikhoyl|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|archangel}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ميخائيل|tr=mikha’il}}, {{t-|ar|ميكائيل|tr=mika'il}}, {{t|ar|ميكال|m|tr=mikaal}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|Միքայել|tr=Mik'ayel}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|Mihajlo|m}}, {{t-|bs|Mikail|m}}
* Chinese: [[米迦勒]] (mǐjiālè)
* Danish: {{t-|da|Mikael}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|Miikael}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Mikael}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Michel}}
*: [[Old French]]: {{tø|fro|Michel}}, {{tø|fro|Michiel}}
* German: {{t+|de|Michael}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|מיכאל}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Michele}}
* Japanese: [[ミカエル]] (mikaeru)
* Korean: [[미가엘]] (migael)
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Miķelis|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|Михаил|tr=Míhail}}
* [[Northern Sami]]: {{tø|se|Mikael}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Mikael}}
* Polish: [[Michał]] (Święty Michał Archanioł)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Михаил|tr=Mixaíl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Mìcheal|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|Михајло|m|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sr|Mihajlo|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Miguel}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Mikael}}
* Ukrainian: [[Mихаїл]] (Mykhajíl)
* Welsh: [[Mihangel]]
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|מיכאל|m|tr=Mikhoyl|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|America|servant|doctor|995|Michael|fee|excellent|Peter}}

===Anagrams===
* [[chameli#English|chameli]], [[Micheal#English|Micheal]]

[[Category:en:Biblical characters]]

----

==Danish==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|da|Mikael}}

===Etymology===
From Vulgate {{etyl|la|da}} {{term|Michael|lang=la}}, {{term|Michahel|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|he|da}} {{term|sc=Hebr|מיכאל|tr=mikhael||who is like God?|lang=he}}.

===Proper noun===
{{infl|da|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=da}}.

====Related terms====
* (''male given names'') {{l|da|Mike}}, {{l|da|Mikkel}}
* (''female given names'') {{l|da|Michala}}, {{l|da|Michella}}, {{l|da|Michelle}}
* (''surnames'') {{l|da|Michaelsen}}, {{l|da|Mikkelsen}}

===References===
* [http://www.danskernesnavne.navneforskning.ku.dk/ ] Danskernes Navne, based on CPR data: 60 908 males with the given name Michael (compared to 9 297 named Mikael) have been registered in Denmark between about 1890 (=the population alive in 1967) and January 2005, with the frequency peak in the 1960s. Accessed on 19 May, 2011.

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From Vulgate {{etyl|la|de}} {{term|Michael|lang=la}}, {{term|Michahel|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|he|de}} {{term|sc=Hebr|מיכאל|tr=mikhael||who is like God?|lang=he}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmɪçaʔeːl/|lang=de}}

===Proper noun===
{{infl|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=de}} of Hebrew origin.
# {{biblical character|lang=de}} [[#English|Michael]] the Archangel.

====Related terms====
* ''Swiss German:'' [[Michi]] ( ''Zürich'' ), [[Michue]] ( ''Bern'' )

----

==Norwegian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|no|Mikael}}

===Etymology===
From Vulgate {{etyl|la|no}} {{term|Michael|lang=la}}, {{term|Michahel|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|he|no}} {{term|sc=Hebr|מיכאל|tr=mikhael||who is like God?|lang=he}}.

===Proper noun===
{{infl|no|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=no}}, spelling variant of [[Mikael]].

===References===
* Kristoffer Kruken - Ola Stemshaug: Norsk personnamnleksikon, Det Norske Samlaget, Oslo 1995, ISBN 82-521-4483-7
* [http://www.ssb.no/navn/ ] Statistisk sentralbyrå, Namnestatistikk: 4192 males with the given name Michael (compared to 2365 named Mikael) living in Norway on January 1st 2011, with the frequency peak in the 1980s. Accessed on 19 May, 2011.

----

==Swedish==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|sv|Mikael}}

===Etymology===
From Vulgate {{etyl|la|sv}} {{term|Michael|lang=la}}, {{term|Michahel|lang=la}}, from {{etyl|he|sv}} {{term|sc=Hebr|מיכאל|tr=mikhael||who is like God?|lang=he}}. First recorded as a given name in Sweden in the 13th century.

===Proper noun===
{{infl|sv|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}}, a less common spelling of {{l|sv|Mikael}}.

===References===
* Roland Otterbjörk: Svenska förnamn, Almqvist & Wiksell 1996, ISBN 91-21-10937-0
* [http://www.scb.se/Pages/NameSearch____259432.aspx] Statistiska centralbyrån and Sture Allén, Staffan Wåhlin, ''Förnamnsboken'', Norstedts 1995, ISBN 9119551622: 38 690 males with the given name Michael (compared to 126 744 named Mikael) living in Sweden on December 31st, 2010, with the frequency peak in the 1960s. Accessed on May 19th, 2011.

[[ca:Michael]]
[[de:Michael]]
[[et:Michael]]
[[el:Michael]]
[[es:Michael]]
[[fr:Michael]]
[[gl:Michael]]
[[ko:Michael]]
[[is:Michael]]
[[it:Michael]]
[[ku:Michael]]
[[li:Michael]]
[[hu:Michael]]
[[oc:Michael]]
[[pl:Michael]]
[[ru:Michael]]
[[sr:Michael]]
[[fi:Michael]]
[[sv:Michael]]
[[tr:Michael]]
[[zh:Michael]]