{{also|Mike|mic}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aɪk|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{label|en|informal}} A [[microphone]].
#* '''1970,''' Theodore Sturgeon and Edward H. Waldo, "The Pod in the Barrier", in ''A Touch of Strange'', Ayer Publishing, ISBN 0836935225, page 28,
#*: "Then I say to the recording, for the record," I barked, right into the '''mike''', "[…]"
#* '''1981,''' John Swaigen, ''How to Fight for What’s Right: The Guide to Public Interest Law'', James Lorimer &amp; Company, ISBN 0888624220, pages 118–119,
#*: Obviously, one must watch what one says in the vicinity of a microphone. More than one person has made a “private” statement in the presence of an open '''mike'''.
#* '''2007,''' John Sellers, ''Perfect from Now On: How Indie Rock Saved My Life'', Simon and Schuster, ISBN 0743277082, page 85,
#*: When the haggard bartender informed us that there would be an open-'''mike''' event later in the evening, I got my first sense that not everyone in Manchester cared about the music the city has produced.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|mic}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|informal: microphone}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|咪|tr=mai1|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mikki}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mikro|n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mick}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|mik}}

# To [[microphone]]; to place one or more [[microphone]]s ([[#Noun|mikes]]) on.
#* '''1994''' September, Jim Gaines, transcribed in Alan di Perna, "Step Lively: Recalling the recording process of SRV’s IN STEP with album producer Jim Gaines", in ''Guitar World Magazine'', reprinted in ''Guitar World Presents Stevie Ray Vaughan: Stevie Ray In His Own Words'', Hal Leonard (1997), ISBN 0793580803, page 81,
#*: “And sometimes I’d just have to '''mike''' the room. You could run into some weird phasing problems with the individual mics <!-- [sic] --> because the speakers were all reacting differently.” <!-- [sic] quotes -->
#* '''1996,''' J.R. Robinson, quoted in Mark Huntly Parsons, ''The Drummer’s Studio Survival Guide: How to get the best possible drum tracks on any recording project'', Hal Leonard, ISBN 0793572223, page 72,
#*: He knows me, I know him, and I know how he’s going to '''mike''' the drums and what selection of mic’s <!-- [sic] --> he's going to use.
#* '''2006,''' Glenn Haertlein, ''Project Vectus'', Lulu, ISBN 1-4116-8414-1, page 108,
#*: “Zeb, is everything go on the AV equipment?” I heard Jim ask. ¶ “Yep,” Zeb replied. “I just need to '''mike''' him up.” […] “All set,” he said once he clipped the wireless microphone to my shirtfront.
# To measure using a [[micrometer]].
#* '''1983,''' Tom S. Wilson, ''How to Rebuild Your Big-block Chevy'', HPBooks, ISBN 0895861755, page 98,
#*: ''Measure <!-- bold in original; italicized here for formatting's sake --> Valve-Stem Diameter—''To be positive about it you’ll have to '''mike''' the valve stem with a 1-in. micrometer as explained on pages 100 and 101.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to place a microphone on}} {{l|en|mic}}

====Usage notes====
* This term is often found in the synonymous phrasal verb {{m|en|mike up}}, as in the 2006 quotation above.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to place one or more microphones on}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|mikittää}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mick|c}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|మైకు}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|Kemi}}

[[et:mike]]
[[fr:mike]]
[[ko:mike]]
[[hy:mike]]
[[kn:mike]]
[[kk:mike]]
[[ku:mike]]
[[hu:mike]]
[[ml:mike]]
[[pl:mike]]
[[ru:mike]]
[[sq:mike]]
[[simple:mike]]
[[sv:mike]]
[[ta:mike]]
[[vi:mike]]
[[zh:mike]]