==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|mĭl}}, {{IPA|/mɪl/}}, {{SAMPA|/mIl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-mill.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪl}}

====Homophones====
* [[mil]]

===Etymology 1===
* {{ME.}} ''[[mille]]'', {{OE.}} ''[[mylen]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A grinding apparatus for substances such as grains, seeds, etc.
# The building housing such a grinding apparatus.
# A manufacturing plant for paper, steel, textiles, etc.
# A building housing such a plant.
# An establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely, such as a divorce mill, etc.

=====Synonyms=====
* (''plant, building''): [[factory]], [[works]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[all grist to one's mill]]
* [[miller]]
* [[millhouse]]
* [[milling]]
* [[millstone]]
* [[paper mill]]
* [[rumor mill]], [[rumour mill]]
* [[steel mill]]
* [[windmill]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|grinding apparatus or the building housing it}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[مطحنة]]}}
* Bosnian: [[mlin]] {{m}}
* Croatian: [[mlin]] {{m}}
* Dutch: [[molen]] {{m}}
* [[Erzya]]: [[ведьгев]] (vedgev)
* Estonian: [[veski]]
* Finnish: [[mylly]]
* French: [[moulin]] {{m}}
* German: [[Mühle]] {{f}}
* Greek: [[μύλος]] (mylos)
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|טחנה|tachánah}}
* Hungarian: [[malom]]
* Italian: [[mulino]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[방아]] (bangA); [[방앗간]] (bangAsgan, BangAt-) (''for building'')
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ئاش]]}}
* Norwegian: [[mølle]] {{m}}
* [[Old High German]]: [[mulin]] {{f}}
* Polish: [[młyn]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[moenda]] {{f}}, [[moinho]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[млин]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[mlin]] {{m}}
* Slovenian: [[mlin]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[molino]] {{m}}
* Turkish: [[değirmen]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|manufacturing plant}}
* Dutch: [[fabriek]] {{f}} (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] {{f}} (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
* Finnish: [[tehdas]]
* French: [[manufacture]] {{f}}
* German: [[Fabrik]] {{f}} (''general''), [[Werk]] {{n}} (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] {{f}} (''for paper'')
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|טחנה|tachánah}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: [[mølle]] {{m}}
* Polish: [[fabryka]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: [[fábrica]] {{f}}, [[manufatura]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[fabrica]] {{f}}
* Turkish: [[fabrika]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|building}}
* Dutch: [[fabriek]] {{f}} (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] {{f}} (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
* Finnish: [[tehdas]], [[tehdasrakennus]]
* French: [[manufacture]] {{f}}
* German: [[Fabrik]] {{f}} (''general''), [[Werk]] {{n}} (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] {{f}} (''for paper'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|טחנה|tachánah}}
* Norwegian: [[mølle]] {{m}}, [[fabrikk]] {{m}} (''general'')
* Polish: [[fabryka]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[fabrica]] {{f}}
* Turkish: [[bina]], [[yapı]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely}}
* Dutch: [[papiermolen]] (~ burocracy)
* Finnish: [[mylly]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{he-translation|טחנה|tachánah}}
* Norwegian: [[papirmølle]] {{m}}(~ burocracy)
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[fabrica]], [[molino]]
* {{ttbc|Kashubian}}: [[młin]] {{m}} (3)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Ultimately from Latin ''[[millesimum]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An obsolete [[coin]] with value one-thousandth of a [[dollar]], or one-tenth of a [[cent]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|coin}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From the noun ''mill''

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[grind]] or otherwise process in a mill or other machine.
#: ''to mill flour''
# {{transitive}} To [[shape]], [[polish]], [[dress]] or [[finish]] using a machine.
# {{transitive}} To [[engrave]] one or more [[groove]]s or a pattern around the edge of (a [[cylindrical]] object such as a coin).
# {{intransitive}} (''followed by'' '''around''', '''about''', ''etc.'') To move about in an [[aimless]] fashion.

=====Synonyms=====
* (''move about in an aimless fashion''): [[roam]], [[wander]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|grind or process using a mill or other machine}}
* Dutch: [[malen]]
* Finnish: [[jauhaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: [[moudre]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|shape, polish, etc, using a machine}}
* Dutch: [[slijpen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|engrave groove around the edge of}}
* Dutch: [[graveren]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|move about in an aimless fashion}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
Latin [[milium]]

===Noun===
'''mill'''

# [[millet]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[mʲiːlʲ]}} or {{IPAchar|[mʲɪlʲ]}}

===Verb===
{{infl|ga|verb|present|milleann|past|mhill|future|millfidh|conditional|mhillfeadh|past participle|millte|verbal noun|milleadh}}

# To [[spoil]]

====Mutation====
{{ga mut cons|m|ill}}

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Verb===
'''mill''' (''present participle'' '''a' milleadh''', ''simple past'' '''mhill''', ''past participle'' '''[[millte]]''')

# To [[destroy]], to [[ruin]].

[[Category:Scottish Gaelic verbs]]

----

==Wiradhuri==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[mil]]

===Noun===
'''mill'''

# [[eye]]

[[Category:Wiradhuri nouns]]

[[fa:mill]]
[[fr:mill]]
[[io:mill]]
[[it:mill]]
[[kk:mill]]
[[la:mill]]
[[hu:mill]]
[[pl:mill]]
[[ru:mill]]
[[fi:mill]]
[[ta:mill]]
[[te:mill]]
[[vi:mill]]
[[tr:mill]]
[[zh:mill]]