==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|en|ang|-}}, place name from {{m|ang|mylen}} + {{m|ang|tun}} ("mill settlement") and {{m|ang|middel}} + {{m|ang|tun}} ("middle settlement").

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmɪltən/|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{surname|[[habitational]]|lang=en|from=Old English}}
# {{given name|lang=en|male|from=surnames}} derived from the surname.
#* '''1989''' David Leavitt: ''Equal Affections''. {{ISBN|0-670-821977}} page 215:
#*: Herbert, Sydney, '''Milton''', Seymour. You know, all the time I was growing up I thought those were the most ordinary Jewish first names, until someone pointed out that they were British last names. I guess to my great-grandparents those names must have sounded so modern, so sophisticated, so - non-Eastern European. And now they're just Uncle Miltie, Uncle Sy, Uncle Herb. Do other people have Uncle Donne and Uncle Wordsworth?
# [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], an [[English]] [[author]] and [[poet]] of the  [[seventeenth]] [[century]].
# His works or media adaptations of his works.
# Name of many cities, towns and villages in [[Canada]] and the [[US]].
## A city in [[Florida]], and the [[county seat]] of {{l|en|Santa Rosa County}}.
## A town in Washington Township, {{l|en|Wayne County}}, [[Indiana]], [[United States]].
## An unincorporated community in Union Township, {{l|en|Ohio County}}, [[Indiana]], [[United States]].
# A village in [[Cambridgeshire]], [[England]], on the northern outskirts of [[Cambridge]].
# A town in [[Otago]], [[New Zealand]].

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Milton Keynes}}
* {{l|en|New Milton}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}

{{topics|en|Places in England|Villages in England|Individuals}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ilmnot|Tomlin}}

[[Category:en:California, USA]]
[[Category:en:Cities]]
[[Category:en:Delaware, USA]]
[[Category:en:Florida, USA]]
[[Category:en:Georgia, USA]]
[[Category:en:Illinois, USA]]
[[Category:en:Iowa, USA]]
[[Category:en:Kentucky, USA]]
[[Category:en:Louisiana, USA]]
[[Category:en:Massachusetts, USA]]
[[Category:en:New Hampshire, USA]]
[[Category:en:New South Wales]]
[[Category:en:New York, USA]]
[[Category:en:New Zealand]]
[[Category:en:Newfoundland and Labrador]]
[[Category:en:North Carolina, USA]]
[[Category:en:North Dakota, USA]]
[[Category:en:Nova Scotia]]
[[Category:en:Ontario]]
[[Category:en:Pennsylvania, USA]]
[[Category:en:Scotland]]
[[Category:en:Tennessee, USA]]
[[Category:en:Towns in Indiana]]
[[Category:en:Vermont, USA]]
[[Category:en:Villages]]
[[Category:en:Washington, USA]]
[[Category:en:West Virginia, USA]]
[[Category:en:Wisconsin, USA]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From the {{der|sv|en|Milton}}.

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|c}}

# {{given name|male|lang=sv}}.