==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
# From Latin [[moneta]].
# From the Greek mythological figure ''[[Minthe]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪnt|-ɪnt]]

===Adjective===
'''mint'''

# In good condition
#: ''in mint condition''.
# {{slang}} Very good
#: ''that's mint''
# ([[numismatics]]) In near-perfect condition.
# (Philately) Unused with original gum. As issued originally.
# (colour) of a green colour, like that of mint.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in good condition}}
*Dutch: [[piekfijn]], [[piekfijne]], [[ongeschonden]]
*Finnish: [[virheetön]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|very good}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|near-perfect}}
*Dutch: [[uitmuntend]], [[uitmuntende]]
*Finnish: [[virheetön]]
*French: [[impeccable]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unused stamp}}
*Finnish: [[postituore]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colour}}
*Catalan: [[menta]]
*Finnish: [[mintunvihreä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[mentă]] {{f}} (1)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[menta]] {{f}} (1)

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A building or institution where money (originally just coins) is produced under government licence.
# A large amount of money.
#:''worth a mint''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|money-producing building/institution}}
*Dutch: [[munt]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[rahapaja]]
*Italian: [[zecca]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[монетный двор]] /mon'étnyj dvor/ {{m}}
*Slovak: [[mincovňa]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[kovnica]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[myntverk]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[టంకశాల]] (TamkaSaala)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|large amount of money}}
*Dutch: [[fortuin]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[omaisuus]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A plant of the family ''Labiatae''.
# The flavouring of the plant, either a sweet, a jelly or sauce.
# (colour) a green colour, like that of mint.
#:<table><tr><td>mint colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#BAC483" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Translations====
{{trans-top|plant}}
*Catalan: [[menta]], {{f}}
*Chinese: [[薄荷]] (bóhé)
*Dutch: [[munt]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[mento]]
*Finnish: [[minttu]]
*French: [[menthe]]
*Italian: [[menta]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[мята]] /m'áta/ {{f}}
*Slovene: [[meta]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[mynta]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[పుదీనా]] (pudeenaa)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|herb flavouring}}
*Catalan: menta
*Dutch: [[munt]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[minttu]]
*French: [[menthe]]
*Italian: [[menta]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[ミント]] (minto), [[ハッカ]] (hakka)
*Russian: [[мята]] /m'áta/ {{f}}
*Swedish: [[mynta]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colour}}
*Finnish: [[mintunvihreä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[menta]] {{f}} (1), [[dineral]] {{m}} (3), [[fortuna]] {{f}} (3)

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# ''(transitive)'' To reproduce (coins), usually en masse, under licence.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to reproduce}}
*Dutch: [[munten]]
*Finnish: [[lyödä]] (''rahaa'', ''kolikoita'')
*Italian: [[coniare]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Romanian: [[bate monedă]], [[emite]]
*Russian: [[чеканить]] (čekánit')
*Slovene: [[kovati denar]]
*Swedish: [[mynta]], [[prägla]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top3}}
*[[bluecurls]]
*[[calamint]]
*[[catmint]]
*[[horsemint]]
*[[mint jelly]]
*[[mint julep]]
{{mid3}}
*[[mint sauce]]
*[[mintage]]
*[[minted]]
*[[mint-flavored]], [[mint-flavoured]]
*[[mintmark]]
{{mid3}}
*[[minty]]
*[[peppermint]]
*[[spearmint]]
*[[stone mint]]
*[[water mint]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[bullion]]
*[[crème de menthe]]
*[[menthol]]
*[[sequin]]

===See also===
{{top3}}
*[[balm]]
*[[bee balm]]
*[[bergamot]]
*[[betony]]
*[[catnip]]
*[[clary]]
*[[dragonhead]]
*[[henbit]]
*[[horehound]]
{{mid3}}
*[[labiate]]
*[[lamb’s ears]]
*[[lemon balm]]
*[[monarda]]
*[[oregano]]
*[[patchouli]]
*[[pennyroyal]]
*[[perilla]]
*[[rosemary]]
{{mid3}}
*[[salvia]]
*[[selfheal]]
*[[skullcap]]
*[[spike lavender]]
*[[thyme]]
*[[wild bergamot]]
*[[woundwort]]
*[[Wiktionary Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Conjunction===
'''mint'''

# [[as]], [[like]]

[[Category:Hungarian conjunctions]]
[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Greens]]
[[Category:Spices and Herbs]]
[[Category:Plants]]

[[fa:mint]]
[[fr:mint]]
[[io:mint]]
[[it:mint]]
[[hu:mint]]
[[pl:mint]]
[[ru:mint]]
[[fi:mint]]
[[ta:mint]]
[[vi:mint]]
[[zh:mint]]