==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[mocque]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|mokken|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|mocquer||to deride, jeer|lang=frm}}, from {{etyl|dum|en}} {{term|mocken||to mumble|lang=dum}} or {{etyl|gml|en}} {{term|mucken||to grumble, talk with the mouth half-opened|lang=gml}}, both from {{etyl|osx|en}} *{{term||mokkian, *mukkian|to low, mumble|lang=osx}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*mukkijaną}}, {{term/t|gem-pro|*mūhaną||to low, bellow, shout}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*mūg-}}, {{term/t|ine-pro|*mūk-||to low, mumble}}. Cognate with {{etyl|goh|-}} {{term|firmucken||to be stupid|lang=goh}}, Modern {{etyl|de|-}} {{term|mucksen||to utter a word|lang=de}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} dialectal {{term|mokkel||kiss|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-mock.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒk}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[imitation]], usually of lesser quality.
#: {{rfquotek|Crashaw}}
# Mockery, the act of mocking.
#* Bible, Proverbs xiv. 9
#*: Fools make a '''mock''' at sin.
# A [[practice]] [[exam]] set by an educating institution to prepare students for an important exam.
#: ''He got a B in his History '''mock''', but improved to an A in the exam.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|imitation}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|namaak|m}}, {{t+|nl|afgietsel|n}}, {{t+|nl|imitatie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jäljitelmä}}, {{t+|fi|väärennös}}
* French: {{t+|fr|imitation|f}}, {{t+|fr|succédané|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|მოჩვენებითი|sc=Geor}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[模造品]](もぞうひん, ''mozōhin'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|imitação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|подделка|f|tr=podd'élka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of mocking}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se moquer}}, {{t+|fr|parodier}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סניטה|f|tr=snitá}}
* Italian: {{t|it|derisione|f}}, {{t+|it|finto}}, {{t|it|simulato}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[嘲笑]](ちょうしょう, ''chōshō''), [[嘲り]](あざけり, ''azakeri'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|escárnio|m}}, {{t+|pt|motejo|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|насмешка|f|tr=nasm'éška}}, {{t+|ru|пародия|f|tr=paródija}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|practice exam}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|harjoituskoe}}
* French: {{t+|fr|examen blanc|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|simulado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[Nachahmung]] {{g|f}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[imitación]], [[burla]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[mimic]], to [[simulate]].
#* Shakespeare
#*: To see the life as lively '''mocked''' as ever / Still sleep '''mocked''' death.
#* Shakespeare
#*: '''Mocking''' marriage with a dame of France.
# To make fun of by mimicking, to [[taunt]].
#* Bible, 1 Kings xviii. 27
#*: Elijah '''mocked''' them, and said, Cry aloud.
#* Gray
#*: Let not ambition '''mock''' their useful toil.
# To [[tantalise]], and disappoint (the hopes of).
#* Bible, Judges xvi. 13
#*: Thou hast '''mocked''' me, and told me lies.
#* '''1597''', William Shakespeare, ''Henry IV'', Part II, Act V, Scene III:
#*: And with his spirit sadly I survive, / to '''mock''' the expectations of the world; / to frustrate prophecies, and to raze out / rotten opinion {{...}}
#* '''1603''', William Shakespeare, ''Othello'', Act III, Scene III:
#*: "It is the greene-ey'd Monster, which doth '''mocke''' / The meate it feeds on."
#* '''1667''', John Milton, ''Paradise Lost'':
#*: Why do I overlive? / Why am I '''mocked''' with death, and lengthened out / to deathless pain?
#* Milton
#*: He will not {{...}} / '''Mock''' us with his blest sight, then snatch him hence.
#* <!--Note: this quotation may not prove the existence of the word in the way our CFI requires, but it can be kept as illustrative. The other citations prove the existence of the word.--> '''1765''', Benjamin Heath, ''A revisal of Shakespear's text'', page 563 (a commentary on the "mocke the meate" line from Othello):
#*: '''‘Mock’''' certainly never signifies to loath. Its common signification is, to disappoint.
#* '''1812''', ''The Critical Review or, Annals of Literature'', page 190:
#*: The French revolution indeed is a prodigy which has '''mocked''' the expectations both of its friends and its foes. It has cruelly disappointed the fondest hopes of the first, nor has it observed that course which the last thought that it would have pursued.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:mock]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:imitate]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to mimic}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|imiteren}}, {{t+|nl|naäpen}}, {{t+|nl|nadoen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|matkia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|imiter}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|nachahmen}}, {{t+|de|nachäffen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μιμούμαι}}
* Italian: {{t|it|parodiare}}, {{t+|it|imitare}}
* Japanese: [[真似る]] (まねる, ''maneru'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|motchi}}
* Norwegian:
*: Norwegian Bokmål: {{t+|nb|imitere}}, {{t+|nb|herme}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|simular}}, {{qualifier|Brasil}} {{t+|pt|imitar}}, {{qualifier|Brasil slang}} {{t|pt|macaquear}}, {{t|pt|remedar}}, {{t+|pt|arremedar}}
* Russian: [[подражать]] (podražát') {{impf}}, [[имитировать]] (imitírovat') {{impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|imitar}}, {{t+|es|remedar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|härma}}, {{t|sv|efterapa}}, {{t+|sv|imitera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to taunt}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|moki}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkata}}, {{t+|fi|ivata}}, {{t+|fi|ilkkua}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufziehen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοροϊδεύω}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סנט|tr=sanát}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scimmiottare}}, {{t|it|schernire}}, {{t+|it|sbeffeggiare}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|motchi}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatoi}}, {{t|mi|whakatoitoi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Norwegian Bokmål: {{t|nb|herme etter}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|kpić}}, {{t|pl|wyśmiewać się}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|escarnecer}}
* Quechua: {{t|qu|assipayay}}
* Russian: [[передразнивать]] (p'er'edráznivat') {{impf}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|burlar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|reta}}, {{t|sv|efterapa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to disappoint someone}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pettää}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|απογοητεύω}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אכזב|tr=ikhzév}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|deludere}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|decepcionar}}, {{t+|pt|desapontar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[imitar]], [[burlar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[jeer]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[imitation]], not [[genuine]] (''mock turtle soup'', ''mock leather''); [[fake]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|imitation, not genuine}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|namaak-}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|teko-}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ყალბი|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t|de|Schein-}}, {{t|de|nachgemacht}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|-דמה|tr=-déme}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|sztuczny|m}}, {{t|pl|udawany|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|falso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поддельный|tr=podd'él'nyj}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|sken-}}, {{t|sv|låtsas-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Comedy]]

[[ca:mock]]
[[cy:mock]]
[[de:mock]]
[[et:mock]]
[[es:mock]]
[[fr:mock]]
[[ko:mock]]
[[io:mock]]
[[kn:mock]]
[[hu:mock]]
[[mg:mock]]
[[ml:mock]]
[[my:mock]]
[[nl:mock]]
[[ja:mock]]
[[no:mock]]
[[pl:mock]]
[[ru:mock]]
[[sm:mock]]
[[simple:mock]]
[[fi:mock]]
[[sv:mock]]
[[tl:mock]]
[[ta:mock]]
[[te:mock]]
[[chr:mock]]
[[tr:mock]]
[[vi:mock]]
[[zh:mock]]