==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* ([[w:Received Pronunciation|Received Pronunciation]]) {{IPA|/məʊl/}}
* (General) {{IPA|/mɒʊl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-mole.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*: {{rhymes|əʊl}}
* (General American) [[w:IPA|IPA]]: /mol/ or /moʊl/

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[mal|māl]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[pigment]]ed spot on the [[skin]], a [[naevus]], slightly raised, and sometimes hairy.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[naevus]]
* [[beauty mark]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|dark spot on the skin}}
* Albanian: [[nishan]] {{m}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|mladež|m}}
* Bulgarian: [[бенка]] (benka) {{f}}
* [[Campidanese Sardinian]]: [[neu]] {{m}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[piga]] {{f}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|madež|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|mateřské znaménko|n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|modermærke|n}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|moedervlek|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luomi}}, {{t-|fi|syntymämerkki}}
* French: {{t-|fr|grain de beauté|m}}, {{t-|fr|nævus|m}}
* German: [[Muttermal]] {{n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ελιά|f|sc=Grek}}
* Hungarian: [[anya]][[jegy]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[nevo]]
* [[Isthmus Zapotec]]: [[biuyaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|nevo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ほくろ|tr=hokuro|sc=Jpan}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|خاڵ|tr=xall|sc=KUchar}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|naevus|m}}
* Norwegian: [[føflekk]] {{m}}
* Polish: [[znamię]] {{n}}, [[pieprzyk]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[pinta]] {{f}}, [[sinal]] {{m}}, [[mancha]] {{f}}, [[marca de nascença]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[родинка]] (ródinka) {{f}}, [[родимое пятно]] (rodímoje p'atnó) {{n}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[младеж]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[mladež]] {{m}}
* Slovak: [[materske znamienko]] {{n}}
* Spanish: [[marca de nacimiento]] {{f}}, [[lunar]] {{m}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|పుట్టుమచ్చ|sc=Telu}} (puTTumaccha)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[molle]]'', akin to Middle Low German ''[[mol]]'', ''[[mul]]''<!--collins says from Middle Dutch-->

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of several small, burrowing [[insectivore]]s of the family [[Talpidae]].
# Any of the burrowing [[rodent]]s also called [[mole rat]]s.
# An internal [[spy]], a [[person]] who involves himself or herself with an organization to determine its secrets from within.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[golden mole]]
* [[mole crab]]
* [[mole cricket]]
* [[mole rat]]
* [[mole run]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|burrowing insectivore}}
* Albanian: [[urith]] {{m}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[خلد|خُلْد]]}} (xuld) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[խլուրդ]] (xlurd)
* [[Basque]]: [[sator]]
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|крот|m|tr=krot|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|krtica|f}}
* [[Breton]]: [[goz]] {{g|Breton}}
* Bulgarian: [[къртица]] (kǎrtitsa) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[talp]] {{m}}
* Cherokee: [[ᏘᏁᏆ]] (tinekwa)
* Chinese: [[鼹科]] (yǎnkē)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|krtica|f}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|krt|m}}; {{t-|cs|krtek|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|muldvarp|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mol|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|talpo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|mutt}}
* Faroese: [[moldvørpa]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kontiainen}}, {{t+|fi|maamyyrä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taupe|f}}
* [[Friulian]]: [[farc]]
* [[Galician]]: [[toupa]] {{f}}, [[toupeira]] {{f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|თხუნელა|tr=t‘xunela|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Maulwurf|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τυφλοπόντικας|m|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|ασπάλακας|c|tr=aspálakas|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|חפרפרת|tr=khafarperet|sc=Hebr}}
* {{trreq|Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vakond}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|moldvarpa|f}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|tikus tanah|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[talpa]]
* Irish: [[caochán]] {{m}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|talpa|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|モグラ|tr=mogura|sc=Jpan}}
* {{trreq|Khmer}}
* Korean: [[두더지]] (dudeoji)
* Kurdish: {{t|ku|koremişk}}
* [[Ladin]]: [[talpina]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|talpa|f}}
* Latvian: [[kurmis]] {{g|Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|kurmis|xs=Lithuanian}} {{g|Lithuanian}}
* [[Lower Sorbian]]: [[kšet]]
* [[Macedonian]]: [[крт]] (krt) {{m}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|talpa|xs=Maltese}}
* [[Mingo]]: [[tekaˀnyakáíteˀ]]
* Mongolian: [[мэнгэ]] (menge)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|moldvarp|m}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[talpa]] {{f}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[nenaapaajinikesi]]
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kret|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|toupeira|f}}
* [[Romani]]: [[balo-puviako]] {{m}}, [[bali-puviaki]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cârtiţă|f}}, {{t|ro|aluniţă|f}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[talpa]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|крот|m|tr=krot|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sami]]: [[eanamuolddat]]
* [[Sardinian]]: [[talpa]] (var: [[topi]], [[tarpa]])
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[dallag]] {{f}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sr|кртица|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: [[krtica]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[vychuchol]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|krt|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|topo|m}}
* {{trreq|Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|mullvad|c}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[ตุ่น]]}} (dtòon)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|köstebek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|кріт|m|tr=krit|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}
* [[Upper Sorbian]]: [[knot]] {{m}}
* {{trreq|Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: [[gwadd]] {{f}}; [[twrch daear]] {{m}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[mol]] {{c}}
* {{trreq|Yiddish}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mole rat}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|maamyyrärotta}}, {{t-|fi|sokkohiiri}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|internal spy}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mol|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|myyrä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|taupe|f}}
* German: [[Maulwurf]] {{m}}; [[Spion]] {{m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κατάσκοπος|c|sc=Grek}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[spia]]; [[spion]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[二重スパイ]] (にじゅうスパイ, nijū supai)
* Polish: {{t|pl|wtyczka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|espião|m}}; {{t|pt|espiã|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|topo|m}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|mullvad|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|గూఢచారి|sc=Telu}} (gUDhachaari)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
French ''[[môle]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Nautical}} A massive structure, usually of stone, used as a [[pier]], [[breakwater]] or junction between places separated by water<ref>mole. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com Unabridged (v 1.1). Random House, Inc. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mole (accessed: March 30, 2007).</ref>.
#: A [[structure]] with a [[breakwater]] on one side, and a cargo handling facility on the other<ref name="FM5515">'''US FM 55-15 '' TRANSPORTATION REFERENCE DATA; 9 June 1886'''''</ref>.
# {{rare}} A [[haven]] or [[harbour]], protected with a breakwater. <!--(which in this case is called a [[molehead]]) This would require a verification -->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|massive structure used as a pier or breakwater}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|möljä}}, {{t+|fi|aallonmurtaja}}
* German: {{t-|de|Mole|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|móló}}
* [[Interlingua]]: mole; [[jectata]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[防波堤]]
* Polish: [[falochron]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[molhe]] {{m}}, [[quebra-mar]] {{m}}
* Russian: [[мол]] (mol) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
German ''[[Mol]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|chemistry|physics}} In the [[International System of Units]], the [[base unit]] of amount of substance; the amount of substance of a system which contains as many elementary entities as there are [[atom]]s in 0.012 [[kilogram]]s of [[carbon-12]].  Symbol: mol. The number of atoms is known as [[Avogadro's number|Avogadro’s number]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|unit of amount}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|mol|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|mol|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|molo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mooli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mole|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Mol|n}}
* Japanese: [[モル]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mol|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mol|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|моль|m|tr=mol'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 5===
Latin ''[[mola]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[hemorrhagic]] mass of tissue in the [[uterus]] caused by a dead [[ovum]].

===Etymology 6===
Spanish, From {{Nahu.}} ''[[molli]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[sauce]] containing [[chocolate]] and used in [[cooking]] of [[Mexico]] and neighboring [[Central America]]<ref>mole. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com Unabridged (v 1.1). Random House, Inc. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mole (accessed: March 30, 2007).</ref>.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sauce}}
* [[Isthmus Zapotec]]: [[guiñadó]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Mammals]]
[[Category:SI units]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# {{context|chemistry|physics}} [[#Noun_4|Mole]].

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{infl|it|noun|g=f}}

# {{i-c|Chemistry|Physics}} [[mole#Etymology_4|mole]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology 1===
Latin [[mollis]]

====Adjective====
'''mole'''

# [[soft]]

===Etymology 2===
Latin [[moles]]

====Noun====
'''mole'''

# [[mass]]

[[Category:Portuguese adjectives]]
[[Category:Portuguese nouns]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology 1===
From Latin ''[[mollis]]''; cognate with ''[[muelle]]''

====Adjective====
{{es-adj}}

# [[soft]], [[mild]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[muelle]]

===Etymology 2===
From Latin ''[[moles]]''

====Noun====
{{es-noun-f}}

# large size or quantity
# massiness

===Etymology 3===
From {{Nahu.|es}} ''[[mulli]]''

====Noun====
{{es-noun-m}}

# {{Mexico|lang=es}} a type of stew

[[Category:es:Foods]]

[[ang:mole]]
[[bg:mole]]
[[de:mole]]
[[et:mole]]
[[el:mole]]
[[fr:mole]]
[[gl:mole]]
[[io:mole]]
[[it:mole]]
[[ku:mole]]
[[lt:mole]]
[[hu:mole]]
[[nl:mole]]
[[no:mole]]
[[oc:mole]]
[[pl:mole]]
[[pt:mole]]
[[ro:mole]]
[[ru:mole]]
[[fi:mole]]
[[ta:mole]]
[[te:mole]]
[[vi:mole]]
[[zh:mole]]