==English==
{{was wotd|2006|June|19}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|mollifie}}

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*mel-}}
Borrowed from {{bor|en|fro|mollifier}}, from {{der|en|LL.|mollificare}}, from {{der|en|la|mollis||soft}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈmɒlɪfaɪ/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-mollify.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[ease]] a [[burden]], particularly worry; make less [[painful]]; to [[comfort]].
#* '''1893''', {{w|Henry George}}, ''The Condition of Labor: An Open Letter to Pope Leo XIII,'' [https://books.google.com/books?id=3KU_AAAAYAAJ&pg=PA104&dq=mollify p. 104]:
#*: All that charity can do where injustice exists is here and there to somewhat '''mollify''' the effects of injustice.
#* '''1997''', ''A Government Reinvented: A Study of Alberta's Deficit Elimination Program,'' [https://books.google.com/books?id=LXyzAAAAIAAJ&q=mollify+concerns p. 408]:
#*: The draft Charter School Handbook issued in November 1994 sought to '''mollify''' concerns over teacher quality, if not ATA membership, by requiring teacher certification.
# To [[appease]] (anger), [[pacify]], gain the [[good will]] of.
#* '''1867''', [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''[[s:Oliver Twist|Oliver Twist]]'', chapter 2:
#*: Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church-warden, it by no means '''mollified''' the beadle.
#* '''1916''', [[w:L. Frank Baum|L. Frank Baum]], ''[[s:Rinkitink in Oz|Rinkitink in Oz]]'', chapter 5:
#*: The angry goat was quite '''mollified''' by the respectful tone in which he was addressed.
#* '''2016''' January 31, "[http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/01/huma-abedin-hillary-clinton-adviser Is Huma Abedin Hillary Clinton’s Secret Weapon or Her Next Big Problem?]," ''Vanity Fair'' <small>(retrieved 21 January 2016)</small>:
#*: But these answers did not '''mollify''' Grassley. Specifically, he objected to Abedin’s becoming an S.G.E., because he believed she provided no irreplaceable expertise and therefore her designation as one had violated Congress’s intent when it created the program, in 1962.
# To [[soften]]; to make [[tender]]
#* '''1662''', [[w:Henry More|Henry More]], ''[[s:An Antidote Against Atheism|An Antidote Against Atheism]]'', Book III, A Collection of Several Philosophical Writings of Dr. Henry More, p. 113:
#*: "Nor is it any more difficulty for him to '''mollifie''' what is hard, then it is to harden what is so soft and fluid as the Aire."
#* '''1724''', {{w|William Burkitt}}, ''Expository Notes, with Practical Observations on the New Testament,'' [https://books.google.com/books?id=NodAAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA102&dq=mollify p. 102]:
#*: By thy kindness thou wilt melt and '''mollify''' his spirit towards thee, as hardest metals are melted by coals of fire …

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to ease a burden}} {{l|en|assuage}}, {{l|en|calm}}, {{l|en|comfort}}, {{l|en|mitigate}}, {{l|en|soothe}}
* {{sense|to appease}} {{l|en|appease}}, {{l|en|conciliate}}, {{l|en|pacify}}, {{l|en|placate}}, {{l|en|propitiate}}, {{l|en|satisfy}}
* See also [[Thesaurus:calm]]

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|emollient}}
* {{l|en|mollification}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to ease a burden}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|смекчавам}}, {{t+|bg|успокоявам}}
* French: {{t+|fr|apaiser}}, {{t+|fr|calmer}}
* German: {{t+|de|mildern}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαλακώνω|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|καταπραΰνω|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: [[hibur|menghibur]], [[tenang|menenangkan]], [[ringan|meringankan]]
* Latin: {{t|la|lēniō}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|смягча́ть}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to appease}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|укротявам}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|撫慰}}, {{t+|cmn|抚慰|tr=fǔwèi}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|mildigi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|apaiser}}
* German: {{t+|de|beruhigen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαλακώνω|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|κατευνάζω|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|жұбандыру}}
* Latin: {{t|la|lēniō}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|apaziguar}}, {{t+|pt|acalmar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|успока́ивать}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|apaciguar}}
{{trans-bottom}}