==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|of a person, institution, or written work}} The quality or characteristic of being [[respect]]ed for having [[good]] [[character]] or [[knowledge]], especially as a source of [[guidance]] or an exemplar of [[proper]] [[conduct]].
#* '''1835''', John Orville Taylor, ''The District School or National Education'' 3rd ed., Carey, Lea, and Blanchard, Philadelphia, p. 287:
#*: The people adopted the government they had framed, and thus gave it its '''moral authority'''.
#* '''1903''', [[w:Samuel_Butler_(novelist)|Samuel Butler]], ''The Way of All Flesh'', ch. 85:
#*: There was an essay . . . devoted to a consideration of the many questions which must be reopened and reconsidered on their merits if the teaching of the Church of England were to cease to carry '''moral authority'''.
#* '''2007''' Oct. 16, "[https://web.archive.org/web/20071117140251/http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1671966,00.html Bush to Meet With Dalai Lama Today]," ''Time'':
#*: While the Dalai Lama is lauded in much of the world as a figure of '''moral authority''', Beijing reviles the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
# One possessing this characteristic.
#* '''2009''', Robert Jefferson Norrell, ''Up from History: The Life of Booker T. Washington'', p. 431:
#*: At first Martin Luther King Jr. invoked Booker as a '''moral authority''' for King's ethic of love and his posture of passive resistance to white hatred.
#* '''2010''', {{w|Dan P. McAdams}}, ''George W. Bush and the Redemptive Dream'', p. 207:
#*: No less a '''moral authority''' than Elie Wiesel, the celebrated holocaust survivor and Nobel laureate, urged President Bush to invade Iraq to defend freedom and liberate the Iraqi people.
#* '''2011''', Scott C. Lowe, ''Christmas - Philosophy for Everyone: Better Than a Lump of Coal'', p. 100:
#*: Santa is not only a '''moral authority''', like a strict father, but he is also like a nurturing parent, traditionally, a mother.
# The [[right]] or [[power]] to act (or direct others to act), based on the belief that the actor is moral, rather than on the actor having or needing some [[formal]] power to do so.
#* '''2002''', {{w|Samuel Edward Finer}}, ''The Man on Horseback: The Role of the Military in Politics'', p. 20:
#*: Thus, when the military breaches the existing political order, it will be forced to claim a '''moral authority''' for its actions.
#* '''2008''', {{w|Philip B. Heymann}}, ''Living the Policy Process'', p. 121:
#*: Victims of palpable injustice enjoy a '''moral authority''' that is likely to provide access to even busy players.
#* '''2011''', Daniel Walker, ''God in a Brothel: An Undercover Journey into Sex Trafficking and Rescue'', p. 124:
#*: In that knowledge I realized that while I lacked any legal authority, I already possessed all the necessary '''moral authority''' to confront and interview Watson for his crimes.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|quality or characteristic of being respected for being moral}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|autoritate morală|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}