==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|moral minima}}

# {{lb|en|ethics}} A [[standard]] or [[principle]] upheld as [[indispensable]] for [[moral]] [[conduct]], whether within a particular context or in general.
#* '''1887''', [[w:Franklin H. Giddings|Franklin H. Giddings]], "The Natural Rate of Wages," ''Political Science Quarterly'', vol. 2, no. 4, p. 625:
#*: John Stuart Mill . . . was not long in proving that the '''moral minimum''' of wages was a myth.
#* '''1942''', Richard C. Fuller, "Morals and the Criminal Law," ''Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1931-1951)'', vol. 32, no. 6, p. 628:
#*: These '''moral minima''' are found in the many criminal laws.
#* '''2001''', Charles R. Beitz, "Human Rights as a Common Concern," ''American Political Science Review'', vol. 95, no. 2, p. 272:
#*: Walzer speculates that a comparison of the moral codes found in various societies might produce "a set of standards to which all societies can be held—negative injunctions, most likely, rules against murder, deceit, torture, oppression, and tyranny." These standards would constitute "the '''moral minimum'''."
# {{lb|en|ethics}} The specific [[rule]] that one should do no [[intentional]] [[harm]], often considered the [[bare minimum]] required for [[ethical]] [[behavior]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2005|author=Patricia Illingworth|title=Trusting Medicine: The Moral Costs of Managed Care|publisher=Routledge|isbn=0415364833|page=100
|passage=First, consider the '''moral minimum''', do no harm.}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|do no harm}}

[[Category:en:Directives]]