{{also|-morph}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|mô(r)f}}, {{IPA|en|/mɔː(ɹ)f/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-morph.wav |Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɔː(ɹ)f|s=1}}

===Etymology 1===
{{back-form|en|morpheme}}, from {{der|en|grc|μορφή|t=form, shape}}. Compare {{cog|de|Morph}}, from {{m|de|Morphem}}.  Attested since the 1940s.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{senseid|en|grammar}} {{lb|en|grammar|linguistics}} A physical form representing some morpheme in language. It is a recurrent distinctive sound or sequence of sounds.
# {{lb|en|linguistics}} An [[allomorph]]: one of a set of realizations that a morpheme can have in different contexts.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|physical form representing morpheme}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|morf|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|morfi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|морф}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|morf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|allomorph}}

====References====
* {{R:OED Online|morph|n.3|122331|December 2002}}

===Etymology 2===
{{back-form|en|morphism}}. Attested since the 1950s. See also {{m|en|morphology|id=biology}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|biology}} variety of a species, distinguishable from other individuals of the species by morphology or behaviour.
#* {{quote-book|en|2010|T.J. Pandian|Sexuality in Fishes||51|Briefly, the yellow morphic males can change their status from paired to satellite and from satellite to the paired one. However, they cannot cross into the status of the red '''morph'''.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|biology: local variety}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|morfi}}
* German: {{t+|de|Morphe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|morf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* {{R:OED Online|morph|n.4|122332|December 2002}}

===Etymology 3===
{{clipping of|en|metamorphose}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|colloquial|ambitransitive|computer graphics}} To change shape, from one form to another, through computer animation.
# {{lb|en|science fiction|fantasy}} To [[shapeshift]].
#* '''1993''', [[w:Peter David|Peter David]], ''The Siege'':
#*: Meta leapt forward. In midair his lower half '''morphed''', and suddenly he was one-half humanoid, one-half coiled spring.
# {{lb|en|by extension}} To undergo dramatic change in a seamless and barely noticeable fashion.
#* '''2013''' June 18, [[w:Simon Romero|Simon Romero]], "[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/world/americas/brazilian-leaders-brace-for-more-protests.html Protests Widen as Brazilians Chide Leaders]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 21 June 2013)</small>:
#*: By the time politicians in several cities backed down on Tuesday and announced that they would cut or consider reducing fares, the demonstrations had already '''morphed''' into a more sweeping social protest, with marchers waving banners carrying slogans like “The people have awakened.”
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Astra Taylor|authorlink=Astra Taylor|title=The People's Platform: Taking Back Power and Culture in the Digital Age|year=2014|publisher=Henry Holt and Company|isbn=978-0-8050-9545-6|chapter=2|quotee={{w|Richard Florida}}|passage=“Highbrow and lowbrow, alternative and mainstream, work and play, CEO and hipster are all '''morphing''' together today,” [Richard] Florida enthuses.}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[computer]]-[[generated]] [[gradual]] change from one [[image]] to another.

===Etymology 4===
{{clipping of|en|morphine}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|slang}} [[morphine]]
#* '''2008''', Donald Bodey, ''F.N.G.'' (page 103)
#*: They're bringing you some '''morph''' before long. {{...}} The tube has its own needle, and the medic jabs it in like he has done it a million times, then marks Chickenfeed's forehead so the Rear will know he's already had morphine.

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|morphic}}
* {{l|en|morpho-}}
* {{l|en|morphological}}
* {{l|en|muscle morph}}

[[Category:en:Fictional abilities]]