{{wikipediapar|Mouth}}
==English==

{{rank|boys|joy|green|681|mouth|generally|ago|easily}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|mouth}}
*{{IPA|/maʊθ/}}
*{{SAMPA|/maUT/}}
*{{audio|en-us-mouth.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊð|-aʊð]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[mūþ]]''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# {{anatomy}} The [[opening]] of a [[creature]] through which [[food]] is [[ingest]]ed.
#:''"Open your '''mouth''' and say 'aah'," directed the doctor.''
# The end of a river out of which water flows.
# An [[outlet]], [[aperture]] or [[orifice]].
#: ''The '''mouth''' of a cave''
# {{slang}} A [[loud]] or overly [[talkative]] person.
#:''My kid sister is a real '''mouth'''; she never shuts up.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|the opening of an animal through which food is ingested}}
* Armenian: [[բերան]]
*Czech: [[ústa]] {{p}} (''esp. human''), [[pusa]] {{f}} (''informal''), [[tlama]] {{f}} (''esp. animal'')
*Dutch: [[mond]] {{m}}
*Estonian: [[suu]]
*Finnish: [[suu]]
*French: [[bouche]] {{f}}
*German: [[Mund]] {{m}} (''esp. human''), [[Maul]] {{n}} (''esp. animal'')
*Greek: [[στόμα]] {{n}}
*Ancient Greek: [[στόμα]] (stoma) {{n}}
*Icelandic: [[munnur]] {{m}}, [[kjaftur]] ''(vulgar)'' {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[bocca]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[口]] ([[くち]], kuchi)
*Korean: [[입]] (ip)
*Maltese: [[ħalq]] ((m))
*Polish: [[usta]] {{npl}}, [[paszcza]] {{f}}, [[gęba]] {{f}} 
*Portuguese: [[boca]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[рот]] (rot) {{m}}, [[уста]] (ustá) {{p}} ''poetic''
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an outlet, aperture or orifice}}
*Estonian: [[suu]]
*Finnish: [[suu]]
*French: [[embouchure]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[στόμιο]] {{n}}
*Ancient Greek: [[στόμα]] (stoma) {{n}}
*Icelandic: [[munnur]] {{m}}, [[op]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[imboccatùra]] {{f}}, [[imbócco]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[otwór]] {{m}}, [[ujście]] {{n}}, [[wylot]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[boca]], [[entrada]], [[orifício]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[отверстие]] (otvérstije) {{n}}, [[устье]] (úst’je) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the end of a river out of which water flows}}
*Czech: [[ústí]] {{n}}
*Estonian: [[suu]]
*Finnish: [[suu]]
*French: [[embouchure]] {{f}}
*German: [[Mündung]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[εκβολές]] {{f}} {{p}}
*Ancient Greek: [[στόμα]] (stoma) {{n}}
*Icelandic: [[mynni]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[foce]] {{f}}
*Korean: [[하구]] (河口, hagu)
*Maltese: [[bokka]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[ujście]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[foz]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[устье]] (úst’je) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[mond]]
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[gojë]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[فم]]}} (fam)
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[usta#Bosnian|usta]] {{npl}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[genoù]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[boca]] {{f}} [[:ca:boca|^]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[嘴]] (zuǐ), [[口]] (kǒu)
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[usta#Croatian|usta]] {{npl}}
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[buŝo]]
*{{ttbc|Fijian}}: [[gusu]]
*{{ttbc|Frisian}}: [[mûle]]
*{{ttbc|Gamilaraay}}: [[ngaay]]
*{{ttbc|Georgian}}: [[ფირი]] (p‘iri)
*{{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[juru]]
*{{ttbc|Hawaiian}}: [[waha]]
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[मुंह]] (mu.nh), [[मुख]] (mukh)
*{{ttbc|Hittite}}: [[aiš]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[száj]]
*{{ttbc|Ilocano}}: [[ngiwat]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[mulut]]
{{trans-mid}}
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[bucca]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[口]] ([[くち]], kuchí)
*{{ttbc|Maltese}}: [[ħalq]]
*{{ttbc|Maori}}: [[waha]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[munn]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[muð]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[دهان]]}} (dahân)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[gură]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Samoan}}: [[gutu]]
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*:Cyrillic: [[уста#Serbian|уста]] {{npl}}
*:Roman: [[usta#Serbian|usta]] {{npl}}
*{{ttbc|Sicilian}}: [[vucca]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[ústa]] {{p}}
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[usta]] {{npl}}
*{{ttbc|Sumerian}}: [[ka#Sumerian|ka]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[mun]] (1), [[mynning]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[bibig]], [[bunganga]]
*{{ttbc|Tamazight}}: [[ⵉⵎⵉ]] (imi) {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[నోరు]]
*{{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[îuru]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ağız]]
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{URchar|[[منہ]]}} (mu.nh), {{URchar|[[مکھ]]}} (mukh)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[speak]] about something.
#:''He '''mouthed''' his opinions on the subject at the meeting.''
# {{transitive}} To make the actions of [[speech]], without producing sound.
#:''The prompter '''mouthed''' the words to the actor, who had forgotten them.''
# {{transitive}} To [[pick up]] or [[handle]] with the [[lips]] or mouth, but not [[chew]] or [[swallow]].
#:''The fish '''mouthed''' the lure, but didn't bite.''

===Derived terms===
*[[all mouth and pants]]/[[all mouth and trousers|trousers]], [[all mouth and no pants]]/[[all mouth and no trousers|trousers]], [[all mouth]]
*[[big mouth]]
*[[mouthbrooder]]
*[[mouthful]]
*[[mouth music]]
*[[mouth off]]
*[[mouthwash]]
*[[mouthy]]
*[[loudmouth]]/[[loud-mouth]], [[loudmouthed]]/[[loud-mouthed]]
*[[out of the mouths of babes]]
*[[straight from the horse's mouth]]
*[[word of mouth]]

===See also===
*[[orifice]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Anatomy]]

[[ang:mouth]]
[[ar:mouth]]
[[zh-min-nan:mouth]]
[[el:mouth]]
[[es:mouth]]
[[fr:mouth]]
[[ko:mouth]]
[[hy:mouth]]
[[hi:mouth]]
[[io:mouth]]
[[it:mouth]]
[[kk:mouth]]
[[ky:mouth]]
[[la:mouth]]
[[hu:mouth]]
[[ja:mouth]]
[[ug:mouth]]
[[pl:mouth]]
[[ru:mouth]]
[[simple:mouth]]
[[sr:mouth]]
[[fi:mouth]]
[[sv:mouth]]
[[ta:mouth]]
[[vi:mouth]]
[[tr:mouth]]
[[uk:mouth]]
[[zh:mouth]]