==English==

===Etymology===
"1685, 'lowest sill of a house,' from [[mud]] + [[sill]]. The word entered U.S. political history [[s:The 'Mudsill' Theory|in a speech]] by [[w:James Henry Hammond|James M. Hammond]] of South Carolina, March 4, 1858, in U.S. Senate, alluding to the very mudsills of society, and the term subsequently was embraced by Northern workers in the pre-Civil War sectional rivalry." (OED, 2007)

===Alternative forms===
* [[mud sill]]
* [[mud-sill]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The lowest [[sill]] of a structure, usually placed in or on the ground.
# {{figuratively}} A particularly low or dirty place/state; the [[nadir]] of something (see [[rock bottom]])
#: ''"The Pre-Historic Era represented the mudsill of human development."''
# {{dated}} A person of low status or humble [[provenance]].
#*'''1861''', Theodore Winthrop, ''[[s:Washington as a Camp|Washington as a Camp]]'', [[s:Washington as a Camp/The Following Is the Oath|The Following Is the Oath]]
#*:We were now miserable mercenaries, serving for low pay and rough rations. Read the Southern papers and you will see us described. “'''Mudsills''',” — that, I believe, is the technical word.
#*'''1868''', Carl Schurz, ''[[s:The Road to Peace — a Solid, Durable Peace|The Road to Peace — a Solid, Durable Peace]]''
#*:General Lee throw down his sword and surrender his invincible Southern legions to that poor little Northern '''mud-sill''', a late tanner from Illinois!
#*'''1903''', Hightower Theodore Kealing, ''[[s:The Characteristics of the Negro People|The Characteristics of the Negro People]]''
#*:Though the '''mudsill''' of the labor world, he whistles as he hoes, and no dark broodings or whispered conspirings mar the cheerful acceptance of the load he bears.

===References===
* Dictionary.com Unabridged (v 1.1). Random House, Inc. 02 Dec. 2007. [http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mudsill]
* Online Etymology Dictionary. Douglas Harper, Historian. 02 Dec. 2007.

[[ta:mudsill]]
[[zh:mudsill]]