==English==

===Alternative forms===
{{rel-top|Variant spellings}}
* {{forms|α|1|remodeled to resemble a singular noun of the [[Appendix:Latin second declension|Latin second declension]]}}
** mundungus {{defdate|17th century onward}}
* {{forms|β|1|with an ending resembling its Spanish etymon}}
** {{l|en|mundungo}} {{defdate|17th–20th centuries}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{forms|γ|5|''{{l|en|plurale tantum|pluralia tantum}}'', with implied singular senses}}
** {{l|en|mondongas}} {{defdate|17th century}}
** {{l|en|mundungas}} {{defdate|17th century}}
** {{l|en|mundungoes}} {{defdate|17th century}}
** {{l|en|mundungo's|mundungo’s}} {{defdate|17th century}}
** {{l|en|mundungos}} {{defdate|17th century}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology===
From the {{etyl|es|en}} {{term|mondongo||tripe”, “entrails|lang=es}}, perhaps ''via'' its {{etyl|en|-}} etymon {{term|mondongo|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|mŭndŭngʹgəs}}, {{IPA|/mʌnˈdʌŋɡəs/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|mən'dəngʹgəs}}, {{IPA|/ˌmənˈdəŋɡəs/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} [[offal|Offal]]; waste [[animal]] product; [[organic]] matter unfit for [[consumption]].
#* '''1767''', November 5, [[w:George Faulkner|George Faulkner]], [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=D3rPAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA466 a letter] to [[w:William Bowyer (1663–1737)|William Bowyer]]:
#*: Claret is the universal medicine here, and '''mundungus''' port the bane and stupefaction of all society.
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} [[poor|Poor]]-quality [[tobacco]] with a [[foul]], [[rancid]], or [[putrid]] smell.
#* '''1728''', July 28, [[w:Jonathan Swift|Jonathan Swift]], [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=cloOAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA75 ''My Lady's Lamentation and Complaint Against the Dean'']:
#*: Whom he brings in among us<br>And bribes with '''mundungus''';
#* '''1755''', [[w:Henry Fielding|Henry Fielding]], [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=yE0JAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA131 ''The Journal of a Voyage to Lisbon''], pages 130–131:
#*: The whole town of Ryde could not supply a single leaf [of tea]; for as to what Mrs. Francis and the shop called by that name, it was not of Chinese growth. It did not indeed in the least resemble tea, either in smell or taste, or in any particular, unless in being a leaf: for it was in truth no other than a tobacco of the '''mundungus''' species.
#* '''1801''', May, [[w:William Cobbett|William Cobbett]], [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=OrUTAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA50 ''Porcupine's Works; Containing Various Writings and Selections, Exhibiting a Faithful Picture of the United States of America; etc.''], volume 2, ''A Bone to Gnaw for the Democrats, Part I'', page 50:
#*: Nobody can doubt, particularly if ''country'' be taken into the consideration, that the grinders and retailers of '''''Mundungus''''' were among the author's ''encouragers''. … that ''he'' had told the ''Secretary of the Treasury'', that if the '''''Mundungus''''' was taxed, “he would be ''damn'd'' if ever ''he forgave him'', while he had an existance.”

===References===
* {{R:1811 Vulgar Tongue}}<br/>  <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Mundungus.</span> Bad or rank tobacco : from ''mondongo'', a Spanish word signifying tripes, or the uncleaned entrails of a beast, full of filth.
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://ed2.oed.com/cgi/display/00153633 †munˈdungus]</span>” listed in the ''[[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]]'' [2<sup>nd</sup> Ed.; 1989]
* “<span class="plainlinks">[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/00318586 mundungus, ''n.'']</span>” listed in the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' [<span style="font-variant:small-caps">draft revision</span>; Mar. 2010]

[[et:mundungus]]
[[te:mundungus]]