{{see|Jack}}
{{wikipediapl|jack}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|jăk}}, {{IPA|/dʒæk/}}, {{SAMPA|/dZ{k/}}
*{{audio|en-us-jack.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{rhymes|æk}}

===Etymology 1===
''[[jakke]]'', from the name [[Jack]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A device used to raise and (temporarily) support a heavy object.
#:''car jack''
#:''pneumatic jack''
# (''[[playing cards]]'') The card ranking between the [[ten]] and [[queen]] of any suit, with a picture of a knave or prince on its face; often with value 11.
# A male [[ass]].
# A socket for electrical equipment.
#:''telephone jack''
# One of many X-shaped metal structures.
# A target ball in [[bowls]], etc; a [[jack-ball]]
# (''colloquial, short for'' [[jackshit]]) Nothing.
# A small [[flag]] at the [[bow]] of a [[ship]]
# A [[coarse]] and cheap [[medieval]] coat of [[defense]], especially one made of [[leather]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''',  The [[aketon]], [[gambeson]], [[vambasium]], and jack were military [[vestment]]s, calculated for the [[defence]] of the body, differing little from each other, except in their names, their materials and construction were nearly the same, the authorities quoted in the notes, [[shew]] they were all composed of many folds of linen, stuffed with [[cotton]], [[wool]] or [[hair]], [[quilt]]ed, and commonly covered with [[leather]], made of [[buck]] or [[doe]] skin. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 15.
# {{two-up}} A penny with a [[head]] on both sides, used for cheating.  (Reference: Sidney J. Baker, ''The Australian Language'', second edition, 1966, chapter XI section 3, page 243.)
# {{slang}} [[money]]
# A common name for the freshwater [[pike]], [[green pike]] or [[pickerel]]
# Large California [[rockfish]]
# An order of marine fish in the ''[[Carangidae]]'' family

=====Synonyms=====
*(''playing card''): [[knave]]
*(''male ass''): [[jackass]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|device for raising and supporting a heavy object}}
*Danish: [[donkraft]]
*Dutch: [[krik]] {{f}}
*Esperanto: [[kriko]]
*Finnish: [[tunkki]], [[nosturi]]
*French: [[cric#French|cric]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[cric#Italian|cric]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Maltese: [[ġakk]]
*Russian: [[домкрат]] (domkrát) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[gato]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|playing card}}
*Czech: [[kluk]] {{m}}, [[spodek]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[knægt]]
*Dutch: [[boer]] {{m}}, [[zot]] {{m}} (''Flemish'')
*Esperanto: [[bubo]], [[fanto]], [[paĝio]]
*Finnish: [[sotilas]], [[jätkä]], [[solttu]]
*French: [[valet#French|valet]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[fante]] {{m}}
*Maltese: [[kavall]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[valete]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[валет]] (val'ét) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[fant]] {{m}}, [[pob]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[knekt]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|male ass}}
*Danish: [[æselhingst]]
*Dutch: [[ezel]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[azeno]]
*French: [[âne]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[asino]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Maltese: [[ħmar]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|electrical socket}}
*Danish: [[stik]]
*Dutch: [[stopkontakt]] {{n}} (mains), [[aansluitpunt]] {{n}} (connector), [[aansluiting]] {{f}} (connection), [[stekker]] {{m}} (plug)
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[гнездо]] (gn'ezdó) {{n}}, [[разъём]] (razjóm) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|X-shaped metal structure}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|target ball in bowls}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

'''slang: nothing'''
''See'' '''[[jackshit]]'''

{{trans-top|flag at bow of ship}}
*Danish: [[gøs]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[гюйс]] (g'ujs) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|coarse medieval coat}}
*Dutch: [[jekker]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[jako]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: dolník {{m}} (2)

===Etymology 2===

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}}  To use a jack.
#: ''He '''jacked''' the car up so that he could replace the brake pads.''
# {{transitive}}  {{baseball}} ''(slang)'' To hit the ball hard.
#: ''Jones '''jacks''' it into the alley, clearing the bases.''
# {{transitive}}  {{baseball}} ''(slang)'' To hit a home run.
# {{transitive}}  To steal.
#: ''Someone '''jacked''' my car last night!''

====Interjection====
'''jack'''

# {{baseball}} ''(slang)'' A player has hit a home run
#:'' '''Jack!''' Tie score.''

=====See also=====
*[[bootjack]]
*[[cheap-jack]]
*[[Jack]]
*[[jack in]]
*[[jack off]]
*[[jack plug]]
*[[one-eyed jack]]
*[[jacked]]
*[[cottonmouth jack]]
*[[whitetongue jack]]
*[[blackfin jack]]
*[[yellowfin jack]]
*[[bicolor jack]]
*[[Senegal jack]]
*[[horse-eye jack]]
*[[Crevalle jack]]
*[[green jack]]

===References===
{{R:1913}}

[[Category:Card games]]
[[Category:Fish]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''het jack''' {{n}} (''plural:'' [[jacks]] or [[jacken]])

# [[jacket]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[fr:jack]]
[[io:jack]]
[[it:jack]]
[[rw:jack]]
[[nl:jack]]
[[pt:jack]]
[[ru:jack]]
[[fi:jack]]
[[vi:jack]]
[[uk:jack]]
[[zh:jack]]