==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|jacklegged}} (adjective)

===Etymology===
Compare [[blackleg]] (''a person who replaces striking workers; a cheater'') and such expressions as [[jack of all trades]], [[every man jack]].

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|US}} [[amateur|Amateur]], [[untrained]]; [[incompetent]].
#* '''1841''', Letter to the editor, ''The Southern Planter'', Volume I, No. 1, January 1841, p.{{nbsp}}12,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/010668999]</sup>
#*: The next year I had a projecting kind of '''jack leg''' carpenter, from Hanover, living with me in the capacity of overseer {{...}}
#* '''1941''', Martha Colquitt, Interview published in ''Slave Narratives'', Library of Congress Project, Volume 4: Georgia Narratives, Part 1,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/13602/13602-h/13602-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Grandma didn’t think chillun ought to see funerals, so de first one I ever seed, wuz when ma died two years atter de War wuz done over. A '''jackleg''' colored preacher talked, but he didn’t have sense ’nuff to preach a sho’ ’nuff sermon.
#* '''1957''', {{w|Frederik Pohl}} and {{w|C. M. Kornbluth}}, ''Wolfbane'', Chapter{{nbsp}}11, in ''{{w|Galaxy Science Fiction}}'',<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/51845/51845-h/51845-h.htm]</sup>
#*: He was a doer, not a thinker; his skills were the skills of an artisan, a tinkerer, a '''jackleg''' mechanic.
#* '''2010''', {{w|Jabari Asim}}, “Day Work” in ''A Taste of Honey'', New York: Broadway Books, p.{{nbsp}}189,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/tasteofhoneystor00asim]</sup>
#*: At the gas station on the corner, a '''jackleg''' work crew was attaching plywood to the windows.
# {{lb|en|US}} [[dishonest|Dishonest]], [[unscrupulous]].
#* '''1911''', {{w|Peter B. Kyne}}, ''Captain Scraggs or The Green-Pea Pirates'', New York: Grosset & Dunlap, Chapter{{nbsp}}14,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/18469/18469-h/18469-h.htm]</sup>
#*: The little nosy reporter with the hair was fair crazy to come, but McGinty gets a '''jackleg''' doctor to examine him an’ swear that he’s sufferin’ from spatulation o’ the medulla oblongata, housemaid’s knee, and the hives.
#* '''1921''', Sumner Charles Britton, ''Dreamy Hollow'', New York: World Syndicate Company, Chapter 4, pp.{{nbsp}}49-50,<sup>[https://www.gutenberg.org/files/47010/47010-h/47010-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Villard’s great fortune should not be allowed to “dangle” in plain sight of “'''jack-leg''' lawyers,” while he, Parkins, awaited final results of the proceedings.
#* '''1988''', {{w|Joyce Carol Thomas}}, ''Journey'', New York: Scholastic, Chapter 1, p.{{nbsp}}27,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/journey00thom]</sup>
#*: When I went to the so-called authorities for help I ran into '''jackleg''' politicians, wheeler-dealers, henchmen, finaglers and wire-pullers.
# {{lb|en|US}} [[inept|Ineptly]] built or operated; [[makeshift]].
#* '''1889''', John McGovern, ''David Lockwin: The People’s Idol'', Chicago: Donohue, Chapter{{nbsp}}12,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/15123/15123-h/15123-h.htm]</sup>
#*: The train is late {{...}}. ¶ “Well, if I come to such a place as this I must expect a '''jackleg''' railroad {{...}}.”
#* '''1989''', {{w|Jack Vance}}, ''{{w|Lyonesse Trilogy|Madouc}}'', Novato, California: Underwood-Miller, Chapter 7, p.{{nbsp}}168,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/lyonessemadouc00vanc]</sup>
#*: “With the first good rain the entire '''jackleg''' contraption might collapse around my ears {{...}}”
#* '''2005''', {{w|William Hoffman (author)|William Hoffman}}, ''Lies'', Montgomery, Alabama: River City Publishing, Chapter 23, p.{{nbsp}}226,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/lies00hoff]</sup>
#*: Driving the secondhand Chevy pickup, he visits not only major car dealerships but also every '''jackleg''' garage he happens upon in dusty sun-blasted towns of the Deep South.
#* '''2012''', {{w|Stephen King}}, ''{{w|The Dark Tower: The Wind Through the Keyhole|The Wind Through the Keyhole}}'', New York: Simon & Schuster, p.{{nbsp}}176,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=Nvkwjw2LToEC&printsec=frontcover]</sup>
#*: {{...}} he went first to the barn {{...}} and made a '''jackleg''' bed with hay and an old mule blanket.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A type of [[drill]] operated by means of [[compressed air]].
# {{lb|en|US}} An amateur; an untrained or incompetent person.
#* '''1846''', Editor’s Table, ''{{w|The Knickerbocker}}'', Volume 28, No. 1, July, 1846, p.{{nbsp}}87,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/000548450]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I, gentlemen and ladies, are a rale Scientificky! I ain’t none of your '''jack-legs'''.
#* '''1894''', {{w|Mark Twain}}, ''{{w|Pudd'nhead Wilson|The Tragedy of Pudd’nhead Wilson and the Comedy Those Extraordinary Twins}}'', Hartford, Connecticut: American Publishing Company, p.{{nbsp}}311,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/tragedypuddnhea00twaigoog]</sup>
#*: Would the reader care to know something about the story which I pulled out? He has been told many a time how the born-and-trained novelist works; won’t he let me round and complete his knowledge by telling him how the '''jack-leg''' does it?
#* '''1955''', {{w|Flannery O'Connor|Flannery O’Connor}}, “The Life You Save May Be Your Own” in ''{{w|A Good Man Is Hard to Find and Other Stories}}'', New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1977, p.{{nbsp}}58,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/goodmanishardto00ocon]</sup>
#*: “Lady,” he said, jerking his short arm up as if he could point with it to her house and yard and pump, “there ain’t a broken thing on this plantation that I couldn’t fix for you, one-arm '''jackleg''' or not {{...}}.”
#* '''1999''', David Horsley, ''Into the Wind'', Houston, Texas: Winedale Publishing, “Tops for Trees,” p.{{nbsp}}180,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/intowind00hors]</sup>
#*: If it were up to me, we’d have a city ordinance against incompetent pruning of trees. You need a permit to unclog a sewer or fix a light switch, but any '''jackleg''' with a chainsaw can climb up a ladder and undo in five minutes what Mother Nature took decades to accomplish.
# {{lb|en|US}} A [[shyster]] or [[con artist]]; a [[gambler]] who [[cheat]]s;<ref>Tom Dalzell (ed.), ''The Routledge Dictionary of Modern American Slang and Unconventional English'', New York: Routledge, 8th edition, 2009, p. 554.</ref> a generally dishonest or [[reprehensible]] person.
#* '''1985''', Wesley Ellis, ''Lone Star and the California Oil War'', New York: Jove, Chapter 9, p.{{nbsp}}121,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/lonestarcaliforn00elli]</sup>
#*: “{{...}} we ain’t called on to believe every smooth-talking '''jackleg''' who wanders in here.”
#* '''1997''', {{w|Jan Karon}}, ''{{w|Out to Canaan}}'', New York: Viking, Chapter 7, p.{{nbsp}}113,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/outtocanaan000karo]</sup>
#*: “Guess what th’ low-down '''jackleg''' has done now.”

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|jackleg fence}}

===Usage notes===
Although the term most often carries negative connotations (''inept, dishonest''), it may also have positive ones (''self-taught expert, hands-on learner''). Occasionally it is used as a generic pejorative intensifier, equivalent to [[damn]], [[out-and-out]], etc., e.g. ''a '''jackleg''' crook'', ''a '''jackleg''' bastard''. 

===References===
<references/>