{{also|Jag|JAG}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|jăg}}, {{IPA|/d͡ʒæɡ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æɡ|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
The noun is from late {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|jagge}}, the verb is from {{m|enm|jaggen}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[sharp]] [[projection]].
#* Holland
#*: garments thus beset with long '''jags'''
#* '''1798''', {{w|Samuel Taylor Coleridge}}, ''{{w|The Rime of the Ancient Mariner}}'', lines 323-7, [http://www.bartleby.com/101/549.html]
#*: The thick black cloud was cleft, and still / The Moon was at its side; / Like waters shot from some high crag, / The lightning fell with never a '''jag''', / A river steep and wide.
#* '''1909''', {{w|Arthur Symons}}, ''London: A Book of Aspects'', self-published, p. 3, [https://archive.org/details/cu31924028075244]
#*: The especial beauty of London is the Thames, and the Thames is so wonderful because the mist is always changing its shapes and colours, always making its light mysterious, and building palaces of cloud out of mere Parliament Houses with their '''jags''' and turrets.
#* '''1956''', {{w|C. S. Lewis}}, ''{{w|The Last Battle}}'', Collins, 1998, Chapter 16,
#*: Even if you hadn’t been drowned, you would have been smashed to pieces by the terrible weight of water against the countless '''jags''' of rock.
# A part broken off; a fragment.
#: {{rfquotek|Bishop Hacket}}
#* '''1852''', {{w|Walt Whitman}}, "{{w|Song of Myself}}" section 52 in ''{{w|Leaves of Grass}}'', New York: Modern Library, 1921, p. 77, [https://archive.org/details/leavesofgrass00whit]
#*: I depart as air, I shake my white locks at the runway sun, / I effuse my flesh in eddies, and drift it in lacy '''jags'''.
# {{lb|en|botany}} A [[cleft]] or [[division]].
# {{lb|en|Scotland}} A medical [[injection]].

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|jagged}}
* {{l|en|jagger}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|jags|jagging|jagged}}

# To cut [[unevenly]].
# {{lb|en|Pittsburgh}} To [[tease]].

===Etymology 2===
Circa 1597; originally "load of broom or furze", variant of British English dialectal {{m|en|chag||tree branch; branch of broom or furze}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|ċeacga||broom, furze}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*kagô}} (compare dialectal German {{m|de|Kag||stump, cabbage, stalk}}, Swedish dialect {{m|sv|kage||stumps}}, Norwegian dialect {{m|no|kage||low bush}}, of unknown origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Enough [[liquor]] to make a person noticeably [[drunk]]; a [[skinful]].
# A [[binge]] or period of overindulgence; a [[spree]].
#* '''1939''', {{w|Raymond Chandler}}, ''The Big Sleep'', Penguin 2011, page 88:
#*: ‘People who spend their money for second-hand sex '''jags''' are as nervous as dowagers who can't find the rest-room.’
# A [[fit]], [[spell]], [[outburst]].
#* '''1985''', {{w|Peter De Vries}}, ''The Prick of Noon'', Penguin, Chapter 9, p. 165,
#*: Of course she did not lose her sense of humor (not necessarily to be confused with her laughing fits, which are crying '''jags''' turned inside out according to the shrinks).
#* '''1997''', {{w|Don DeLillo}}, ''{{w|Underworld}}'', Simon & Schuster, 2007, Part 4, Chapter 1, p. 396, [https://books.google.ca/books?id=Ug3ArDMHLnQC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]
#*: Miles had a cold, he always had a cold, it went unnoticed, went without saying, he had coughing '''jags''' and slightly woozy eyes, completely unremarked by people who knew him {{...}}
# A one-horse [[cart]] load, or, in modern times, a [[truck]] load, of hay or wood.
# {{lb|en|Scotland|archaic}} A leather bag or wallet; {{lb|en|in the plural}} [[saddlebag]]s.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|get a jag on}}
* {{l|en|have a jag on}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|binge or overindulgence}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|orgia|f}}, {{t+|it|bisboccia|f}}, {{t+|it|baldoria|f}}, {{t+|it|sregolatezza|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кутёж}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|one-horse cart load}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* German: {{t+|de|Zahn|m}}, {{t+|de|Zacke|f}}, {{t+|de|Kerbe|f}}, {{t|de|Auszackung|f}}, {{t+|de|Riss|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|Jag}}
* {{l|en|JAG}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|AGJ|JGA}}

----

==Danish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/jaːɡ/|[jæjˀ]|lang=da}}

===Noun===
{{da-noun|et}}

# [[hurry]], [[rush]]
# [[twinge]], (a sudden sharp pain; a darting local pain of momentary continuance; as, a twinge in the arm or side)

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|et}}

===Verb===
{{head|da|verb form}}

# {{imperative of|jage|lang=da}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|aːk|lang=de}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|jagen|i|s}}
# {{lb|de|colloquial}} {{de-verb form of|jagen|1|s|g}}

----

==Livonian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qual|Courland}} [[ja'g]]

===Etymology===
Related to Estonian {{m|et|jagu}}.

===Noun===
{{head|liv|noun}}

# [[part]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|jalge}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|No-jag.ogg|Audio|lang=nb}}

===Verb===
{{head|nb|verb form}}

# {{imperative of|jage|lang=nb}}

----

==Romani==

===Etymology===
From {{der|rom|sa|अग्नि|tr=agní||fire}}, from {{der|rom|iir-pro|*Hagnís}}, from {{der|rom|ine-pro|*h₁n̥gʷnis}}. Cognate with {{cog|hi|आग|tr=āg}}, {{cog|ne|आगो|tr=āgō}}, {{cog|gu|આગ|tr=āg}}, and {{cog|pa|ਅੱਗ|tr=agg}}.

===Noun===
{{rom-noun|jag|f||a}}

# [[fire]]

----

==Swedish==

===Alternative forms===
{{rel-top|Dialects}}
* {{alter|sv|je||jms}}
* {{alter|sv|ji||kls}}
* {{alter|sv|jö||lul}}
* {{alter|sv|i||pit}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|sv|gmq-osw|iak}}, {{m|gmq-osw|jæk}}, from {{inh|sv|non|jak}} (compare Old West Norse {{m|non|ek}}), from {{inh|sv|gmq-pro|ᛖᚲ}}, from {{inh|sv|gem-pro|*ek}}, from {{inh|sv|ine-pro|*éǵh₂}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈjɑː(ɡ)/|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-jag.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|sv|pronoun}}

# [[I]]
#: '''''Jag''' läser en bok.''
#:: '''I'm''' reading a book.
#: ''Bara du och '''jag'''.''
#:: Just you and '''me'''.

====Declension====
{{sv-decl-ppron}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n}}

# {{lb|sv|psychology}} [[I]], [[self]]

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-unc-irreg-n|2=jaget}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|sv|jagkänsla}}
* {{l|sv|överjag}}

----

==Yabong==

===Noun===
{{head|ybo|noun}}

# [[water]]

===Further reading===
* J. Bullock, R. Gray, H. Paris, D. Pfantz, D. Richardson, ''A Sociolinguistic Survey of the Yabong, Migum, Nekgini, and Neko'' (2016)