==English==

===Etymology===
{{inh|en|enm|jambe}}, {{m|enm|jaumbe}}, {{der|en|fr|jambe}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈdʒæm/}}
* {{homophones|en|jam}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|heraldry}} A [[leg]].
#* '''1844''', John Burke, Bernard Burke, ''Encyclopædia of Heraldry: Or General Armory of England, Scotland, and Ireland, Comprising a Registry of All Armorial Bearings from the Earliest to the Present Time, Including the Late Grants by the College of Arms''
#*: Crest - A '''jambe''', unarmed, excepting the spur, quarterly, or and sa.
#* '''1847''', Henry Gough, ''A Glossary of Terms Used in British Heraldry: With a Chronological Table, Illustrative of Its Rise and Progress'', page 171:
#*: If couped or erased at the middle joint, it is not a '''jambe''' but a paw.
#*: Or, a lion&#39;s '''jambe''' inverted and erased in bend gules. Powis. Gules, three lion&#39;s '''jambes''' erased and inverted argent.
#* '''1902''', Arthur Conan Doyle, ''The Works of A. Conan Doyle: The white company'', page 167:
#*: “Over all, on an escutcheon of the first, a '''jambe''' gules.” “A jambe gules erased,” said Sir Nigel, shaking his head solemnly. “Yet it is not amiss for a monkbred man. I trust that you are lowly and serviceable?”
# {{lb|en|often|in the plural}} {{synonym of|en|jambeau||a [[greave]]}}.
#* '''1860''' August 18, ''Punch, Or, The London Charivari'', page 68:
#*: {{...}} cuissarts or cuisses were used to shield the thigh, and boots of steel called greaves or '''jambes''' were worn upon the leg between the ancle{{SIC}} and the knee. We have no doubt that the '''jambes''' were found to act well as preserves, but we think at times the shin must have been sadly jammed in them.
#* '''1893''', ''Archaeologia Cambrensis: The Journal of the Cambrian Archoeological Association'', page 272:
#*: The spurs are of the goad-form , and the spur-straps are partially covered by the greaves or '''jambes''', which are so formed as to protect the instep and ankle-joints, and are ornamented round the lower edges with a row of studs.
#* '''1910''', George Clinch, ''English Costume from Prehistoric Times to the End of the Eighteenth Century'', page 189:
#*: Bainbergs were the precursors of the steel greaves or '''jambes''' of the fourteenth century.

[[Category:en:Armor]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{da-noun}}

# {{lb|da|poetry}} [[iamb]]

====Declension====
{{da-decl|n|r}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|da|jambisk}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fr|fro|jambe}}, from {{inh|fr|LL.|gamba}}, from {{der|fr|grc|κάμπη}}, from {{der|fr|ine-pro|*kamp-||to bend; crooked}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|fr|Fr-jambe.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[leg]]
#: {{uxi|fr|Il marche sur ses deux '''jambes'''.|t=He walks with his two legs.}}
#: {{uxi|fr|[[par-dessus la jambe]]|off-handedly}}

====Derived terms====
{{col3|fr|
|à toutes jambes
|avoir des fourmis dans les jambes
|avoir les jambes en coton
|avoir une tête et des jambes
|enjamber
|faire des ronds de jambe
|faire une belle jambe
|jambage
|jambe de bois
|jambière
|jambon
|la queue entre les jambes
|par-dessous la jambe
|par-dessus la jambe
|partie de jambes en l'air
|prendre ses jambes à son cou
|s'étirer les jambes
|tenir la jambe
|tenir sur ses jambes
}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|fr|gambader}}
* {{l|fr|ingambe}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

{{C|fr|Anatomy}}

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|fro|gambe}}
* {{qualifier|Picardy}} {{alter|fro|ganbe}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|fro|LL.|gamba}}, from {{der|fro|grc|κάμπη}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|fro|/ˈd͡ʒãmbə/|qual=early}}
* {{IPA|fro|/ˈʒãmbə/|qual=late}}
* {{homophones|fro|gambe|ganbe}}

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|f}}

# [[leg]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fro|gambon}}
** {{desc|enm||bor=1}}
*** {{desc|en|gammon}}
** {{desc|fr|jambon}} {{see desc}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|frm|jambe|gambe}}
** {{desc|enm|gambe|bor=1}}
*** {{desc|en|gamb}}
** {{desc|enm|jambe|bor=1}}
*** {{desc|en|jamb}}
** {{desc|fr|jambe}}
* {{desc|nrf|gambe}}
* {{desc|pcd|gambe}}
* {{desc|wa|djambe}}

[[Category:fro:Anatomy]]

----

==Spanish==

===Verb===
{{head|es|verb form}}

# {{es-verb form of|jambarse}}