{{also|Japán|japan}}
Main article: Names of Japan
Further information: Wiktionary etymology for the word "Japan"
The English word Japan is an exonym. The Japanese names for Japan are Nippon (にっぽん?),  listen (help·info), and Nihon (にほん?),  listen (help·info). They are both written in Japanese using the kanji 日本. The Japanese name Nippon is used for most official purposes, including on Japanese money, postage stamps, and for many international sporting events. Nihon is a more casual term and the most frequently used in contemporary speech. Japanese people refer to themselves as Nihonjin (日本人?) and they call their language Nihongo (日本語?).

Both Nippon and Nihon literally mean "the sun's origin" and are often translated as the Land of the Rising Sun. This nomenclature comes from Imperial correspondence with the Chinese Sui Dynasty and refers to Japan's eastward position relative to China. Before Nihon came into official use, Japan was known as Wa (倭?) or Wakoku (倭国?).[13]

The English word for Japan came to the West from early trade routes. The early Mandarin or possibly Wu Chinese (呉語) word for Japan was recorded by Marco Polo as Cipangu. In modern Shanghainese, a Wu dialect, the pronunciation of characters 日本 'Japan' is Zeppen [zəʔpən]; in Wu, the character 日 has two pronunciations, informal (白讀?) [niʔ] and formal (文讀?) [zəʔ]. (In some southern Wu dialects, 日本 is pronounced [niʔpən], similar to its pronunciation in Japanese.) The old Malay word for Japan, Jepang (now spelled Jepun in Malaysia, though still spelled Jepang in Indonesia), was borrowed from a Chinese language, and this Malay word was encountered by Portuguese traders in Malacca in the 16th century. It is thought the Portuguese traders were the first to bring the word to Europe. It was first recorded in English in a 1565 letter spelled Giapan.[14]

History
Main article: History of Japan
The first signs of occupation on the Japanese Archipelago appeared with a Paleolithic culture around 30,000 BC, followed from around 14,000 BC by the Jōmon period, a Mesolithic to Neolithic semi-sedentary hunter-gatherer (possibly Ainu)[15] culture of pit dwelling and a rudimentary form of agriculture. Decorated clay vessels from this period, often with plaited patterns, are some of the oldest surviving examples of pottery in the world.

The Yayoi period, starting around 500 BC, saw the introduction of many new practices, such as wet-rice farming,[16] a new style of pottery[17] and Metallurgy [18][19] brought by migrants from China and Korea.

The Japanese first appear in written history in China’s Book of Han. According to the Chinese Records of Three Kingdoms, the most powerful kingdom on the archipelago during the third century was called Yamataikoku.

Buddhism was first introduced to Japan from Baekje, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, but the subsequent development of Japanese Buddhism and Buddhist sculptures were primarily influenced by China.[20] Despite early resistance, Buddhism was promoted by the ruling class and eventually gained growing acceptance since the Asuka period.[21]

 
The Mongol invasions in 1274 and 1281 were successfully repelledThe Nara period of the eighth century marked the first emergence of a strong central Japanese state, centered on an imperial court in the city of Heijō-kyō, or modern-day Nara. In addition to the continuing adoption of Chinese administrative practices, the Nara period is characterized by the appearance of a nascent written literature with the completion of the massive chronicles Kojiki (712) and Nihon Shoki (720).[22] (Nara was not the first capital city in Japan, though. Before Nara, Fujiwara-kyō and Asuka served as capitals of the Yamato state.) The smallpox epidemic of 735-737 is believed to had killed as many as one-third of Japan's population.[23]

In 784, Emperor Kammu moved the capital from Nara to Nagaoka-kyō for a brief ten-year period, before relocating it to Heian-kyō (modern-day Kyoto) in 794, where it remained for more than a millennium.[24] This marked the beginning of the Heian period, during which time a distinctly indigenous Japanese culture emerged, noted for its art, poetry and literature. Lady Murasaki's The Tale of Genji and the lyrics of modern Japan's national anthem, Kimi ga Yo were written during this time.[25]

 
An old Japanese painting depicting a battle during the Sengoku period (1467–1615)Japan's feudal era was characterized by the emergence of a ruling class of warriors, the samurai. In 1185, following the defeat of the rival Taira clan, Minamoto no Yoritomo was appointed Shogun and established a base of power in Kamakura. After Yoritomo's death, the Hōjō clan came to rule as regents for the shoguns. Zen Buddhism was introduced from China in the Kamakura period (1185–1333) and became popular among the samurai class.

The Kamakura shogunate managed to repel Mongol invasions in 1274 and 1281, aided by a storm that the Japanese interpreted as a kamikaze, or Divine Wind. The Kamakura shogunate was eventually overthrown by Emperor Go-Daigo, who was soon himself defeated by Ashikaga Takauji in 1336.[26] The succeeding Ashikaga shogunate failed to control the feudal warlords (daimyō), and a civil war erupted (the Ōnin War) in 1467 which opened a century-long Sengoku (“Warring States”) period.[27]

During the sixteenth century, traders and Jesuit missionaries from Portugal reached Japan for the first time, initiating active commercial and cultural exchange between Japan and the West (Nanban trade).

 
One of Japan's Red seal ships (1634), which were used for trade throughout Asia. 
Samurai of the Satsuma clan during the Boshin War, circa 1867.Oda Nobunaga conquered numerous other daimyo by using European technology and firearms and had almost unified the nation when he was assassinated in 1582. Toyotomi Hideyoshi succeeded Nobunaga and united the nation in 1590. Hideyoshi invaded Korea twice, but following several defeats by Korean and Ming China forces and Hideyoshi's death, Japanese troops were withdrawn in 1598.[28]

After Hideyoshi's death, Tokugawa Ieyasu utilized his position as regent for Hideyoshi's son Toyotomi Hideyori to gain political and military support. When open war broke out, he defeated rival clans in the Battle of Sekigahara in 1600. Ieyasu was appointed shōgun in 1603 and established the Tokugawa shogunate at Edo (modern Tokyo).[29] The Tokugawa shogunate enacted a variety of measures such as Buke shohatto to control the autonomous daimyo.

In 1639, the shogunate began the isolationist sakoku ("closed country") policy that spanned the two and a half centuries of tenuous political unity known as the Edo period. The study of Western sciences, known as rangaku, continued during this period through contacts with the Dutch enclave at Dejima in Nagasaki. The Edo period also gave rise to kokugaku, or literally "national studies", the study of Japan by the Japanese themselves.[30] According to one authority, there were at least 130 famines during the Edo period, of which 21 were particularly serious.[31]

On March 31, 1854, Commodore Matthew Perry and the "Black Ships" of the United States Navy forced the opening of Japan to the outside world with the Convention of Kanagawa. Subsequent similar treaties with the Western countries in the Bakumatsu period brought Japan into economic and political crises. The abundance of the prerogative and the resignation of the shogunate led to the Boshin War and the establishment of a centralized state unified under the name of the Emperor (Meiji Restoration).

Adopting Western political, judicial and military institutions, the Cabinet organized the Privy Council, introduced the Meiji Constitution, and assembled the Imperial Diet. The Meiji Restoration transformed the Empire of Japan into an industrialized world power that embarked on a number of military conflicts to expand the nation's sphere of influence. After victories in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894–1895) and the Russo-Japanese War (1904–1905), Japan gained control of Taiwan, Korea, and the southern half of Sakhalin.[32] Japan's population increased from 35 million in 1873 to 70 million in 1935.[33]

20th century
The early twentieth century saw a brief period of "Taishō democracy" overshadowed by the rise of expansionism and militarization. World War I enabled Japan, which joined the side of the victorious Allies, to expand its influence and territorial holdings. Japan continued its expansionist policy by occupying Manchuria in 1931. As a result of international condemnation for this occupation, Japan resigned from the League of Nations two years later. In 1935, local assemblies were established in Taiwan.[34] In 1936, Japan signed the Anti-Comintern Pact with Nazi Germany, joining the Axis powers in 1941.[35] In 1941, Japan signed the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact with Soviet Union, respecting both Manchukou and Mongolian People's Republic territories.

In 1937, the Empire of Japan invaded other parts of China, precipitating the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945). In 1940, the Empire then invaded French Indochina, after which the United States placed an oil embargo on Japan.[36] On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the United States naval base in Pearl Harbor and declared war on the United States, the United Kingdom and Netherlands. This act brought the United States into World War II and, on December 8, these three countries declared war on Japan.[37][38] After the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, along with the Soviet Union joining the war against it, Japan agreed to an unconditional surrender of all Japanese forces on August 15 (Victory over Japan Day).[39]

 
Skyscrapers in Shinjuku, TokyoThe war cost Japan and countries part of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere millions of lives and left much of the country's industry and infrastructure destroyed. The Allied powers repatriated millions of ethnic Japanese from colonies throughout Asia.[40] The International Military Tribunal for the Far East, was convened by the Allies (on May 3, 1946) to prosecute some Japanese leaders for war crimes. However, all members of the bacteriological research units and members of the imperial family involved in the conduct of the war were exonerated from criminal prosecutions by the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces.

In 1947, Japan adopted a new pacifist constitution emphasizing liberal democratic practices. The Allied occupation ended by the Treaty of San Francisco in 1952[41] and Japan was granted membership in the United Nations in 1956. Japan later achieved spectacular growth to become the second largest economy in the world, with an annual growth rate averaging 10% for four decades. This ended in the mid-1990s when Japan suffered a major recession. Positive growth in the early twenty-first century has signaled a gradual recovery.[42]

Government and politics
Main articles: Government of Japan and Politics of Japan
 
Emperor Akihito and Empress MichikoJapan is a constitutional monarchy where the power of the Emperor is very limited. As a ceremonial figurehead, he is defined by the constitution as "the symbol of the state and of the unity of the people". Power is held chiefly by the Prime Minister of Japan and other elected members of the Diet, while sovereignty is vested in the Japanese people.[43] The Emperor effectively acts as the head of state on diplomatic occasions. Akihito is the current Emperor of Japan. Naruhito, Crown Prince of Japan, stands as next in line to the throne.

Japan's legislative organ is the National Diet, a bicameral parliament. The Diet consists of a House of Representatives, containing 480 seats, elected by popular vote every four years or when dissolved and a House of Councillors of 242 seats, whose popularly elected members serve six-year terms. There is universal suffrage for adults over 20 years of age,[10] with a secret ballot for all elective offices.[43] In 2009, the social liberal Democratic Party of Japan took power after 54 years of the liberal conservative Liberal Democratic Party's rule.

The Prime Minister of Japan is the head of government. The position is appointed by the Emperor of Japan after being designated by the Diet from among its members and must enjoy the confidence of the House of Representatives to remain in office. The Prime Minister is the head of the Cabinet (the literal translation of his Japanese title is "Prime Minister of the Cabinet") and appoints and dismisses the Ministers of State, a majority of whom must be Diet members. Yukio Hatoyama currently serves as the Prime Minister of Japan.[44]

Historically influenced by Chinese law, the Japanese legal system developed independently during the Edo period through texts such as Kujikata Osadamegaki. However, since the late nineteenth century, the judicial system has been largely based on the civil law of Europe, notably France and Germany. For example, in 1896, the Japanese government established a civil code based on the German model. With post-World War II modifications, the code remains in effect in present-day Japan.[45] Statutory law originates in Japan's legislature, the National Diet of Japan, with the rubber stamp approval of the Emperor. The current constitution requires that the Emperor promulgates legislation passed by the Diet, without specifically giving him the power to oppose the passing of the legislation.[43] Japan's court system is divided into four basic tiers: the Supreme Court and three levels of lower courts.[46] The main body of Japanese statutory law is a collection called the Six Codes.[45]

Foreign relations and military
Main articles: Foreign relations of Japan, Japan Self-Defense Forces, and Ministry of Defense (Japan)
 
The JDS Hyuga, one of two Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force helicopter carriers. 
Japanese Air Self-Defense Force F-15s.Japan maintains close economic and military relations with its key ally the United States, with the U.S.-Japan security alliance serving as the cornerstone of its foreign policy.[47] A member state of the United Nations since 1956, Japan has served as a non-permanent Security Council member for a total of 19 years, most recently for 2009 and 2010. It is also one of the G4 nations seeking permanent membership in the Security Council.[48]

As a member of the G8, the APEC, the "ASEAN Plus Three" and a participant in the East Asia Summit, Japan actively participates in international affairs and enhances diplomatic ties with its important partners around the world. Japan signed a security pact with Australia in March 2007[49] and with India in October 2008.[50] It is also the world's third largest donor of official development assistance after the United States and United Kingdom, donating US$8.86 billion in 2004.[51] Japan contributed non-combatant troops to the Iraq War but subsequently withdrew its forces from Iraq.[52] The Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force is a regular participant in RIMPAC maritime exercises.

Japan is engaged in several territorial disputes with its neighbors: with Russia over the South Kuril Islands, with South Korea over the Liancourt Rocks, with the People's Republic of China and Republic of China (Taiwan) over the Senkaku Islands, and with the PRC over the EEZ around Okinotorishima.

Japan also faces an ongoing dispute with North Korea over its abduction of Japanese citizens and its nuclear weapons and missile program (see also Six-party talks). As a result of the Kuril Islands dispute, Japan is technically still at war with Russia since no treaty resolving the issue was ever signed.[53]

Japan's military is restricted by the Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution, which renounces Japan's right to declare war or use military force as a means of settling international disputes. Japan's military is governed by the Ministry of Defense, and primarily consists of the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (JGSDF), the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) and the Japan Air Self-Defense Force (JASDF). The forces have been recently used in peacekeeping operations and the deployment of Japanese troops to Iraq marked the first overseas use of its military since World War II.[52]

==Afrikaans==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|af|proper noun}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

[[Category:af:Countries]]

----

==Dutch==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|nl|proper noun}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

[[Category:nl:Countries]]

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|de|proper noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

===See also===
* [[Japaner]]
* [[Japanerin]]
* [[Japanisch]]
* [[japanisch]]

[[Category:de:Countries]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈjaːpʰaːn/|lang=is}}

===Proper noun===
{{infl|is|proper noun|g=n}}

# [[#English|Japan]]
#: ''Ég [[fara#Icelandic|fer]] til '''Japans'''.''
#:: I'm [[go]]ing to '''Japan'''.
#: ''[[hvar|Hvar]] er '''Japan''' staðsett á [[kort]]inu?''
#:: [[where|Where]] is '''Japan''' located on the [[map]]?

===See also===
* [[Japani]]
* [[japanska]]

[[Category:Icelandic proper nouns]]
[[Category:is:Countries]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|no|proper noun}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

====Related terms====
* [[japaner]]
* [[japansk]]

[[Category:no:Countries]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/jǎpaːn/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|Ja|pan}}

===Proper noun===
{{sh-proper-noun|g=m|head=Jàpān|r|Јапан|Ја̀па̄н}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun-unc
|Japan
|Japana
|Japanu
|Japan
|Japane
|Japanu
|Japanom
}}

[[Category:sh:Countries]]

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|sv|proper noun}}

# [[#English|Japan]]

[[Category:sv:Countries]]

[[zh-min-nan:Japan]]
[[bg:Japan]]
[[ca:Japan]]
[[cs:Japan]]
[[da:Japan]]
[[de:Japan]]
[[et:Japan]]
[[el:Japan]]
[[es:Japan]]
[[fa:Japan]]
[[fr:Japan]]
[[fy:Japan]]
[[gl:Japan]]
[[ko:Japan]]
[[hi:Japan]]
[[hr:Japan]]
[[io:Japan]]
[[id:Japan]]
[[is:Japan]]
[[it:Japan]]
[[kk:Japan]]
[[lo:Japan]]
[[la:Japan]]
[[lt:Japan]]
[[li:Japan]]
[[hu:Japan]]
[[mi:Japan]]
[[nl:Japan]]
[[ja:Japan]]
[[no:Japan]]
[[pl:Japan]]
[[pt:Japan]]
[[ro:Japan]]
[[ru:Japan]]
[[simple:Japan]]
[[fi:Japan]]
[[sv:Japan]]
[[th:Japan]]
[[tr:Japan]]
[[uk:Japan]]
[[vo:Japan]]
[[zh:Japan]]