==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dʒir/}}
* {{rhymes|ɪə(r)}}

===Etymology 1===
Perhaps a corruption of cheer to salute with cheers, taken in an ironical sense; or more probably from {{etyl|nl}} ''[[gekscheren]]'' to jeer, literally, to shear the fool; [[gek]] a fool (see [[geck]]) + ''[[scheren]]'' to shear. See [[shear]], verb.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A railing [[remark]] or reflection; a [[scoff]]; a [[taunt]]; a biting [[jest]]; a [[flout]]; a [[jibe]]; [[mockery]].
#* '''1711''', [[w:Jonathan Swift|Jonathan Swift]], The Fable of Midas, in ''The Works of Jonathan Swift'', D.D., Vol XII, Sir Walter Scott, ed., Edinburgh: Archibald Constable and Co., 1824, pages 302-5,
#*: Midas, exposed to all their '''jeers''', Had lost his art, and kept his ears.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|railing remark or reflection; scoff; taunt; biting jest; flout; jibe; mockery}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|posměšek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|raillerie|f}}, {{t+|fr|moquerie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spott|m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[burla]], [[crito]] de [[derision]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|scherno|m}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|afftak|xs=Scots}}
* Spanish: [[burlería]]
* Swedish: [[glåpord]] {{n}}, [[okvädingsord]] {{n}}
* [[Volapük]]: [[kof]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive|construed with '''at'''}} To utter [[sarcastic]] or scoffing reflections; to speak with [[mockery]] or [[derision]]; to use [[taunting]] language; to [[scoff]]; as, to jeer at a speaker.
#* [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]],
#*: But when he saw her toy and gibe and '''jeer'''.
# {{transitive}} To treat with scoffs or [[derision]]; to address with jeers; to [[taunt]]; to [[flout]]; to [[mock]] at.
#* B. Jonson,
#*: And if we can not '''jeer''' them, we jeer ourselves.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to utter sarcastic remarks}} [[scoff]], [[sneer]]
* {{sense|to treat with scoffs}} [[deride]], [[flout]], [[gibe]], [[mock]], [[ridicule]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to scoff or mock}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|posmívat}} se
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pilkata}}, {{t+|fi|ilkkua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|railler}}, {{t+|fr|moquer}}
* German: {{t+|de|spotten}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[derider]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wyśmiewać}},  {{t|pl|kpić}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|mag|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|burlarse}}, {{t+|es|abuchear}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|häckla}}, {{t-|sv|pika}}, {{t+|sv|smäda}}
* [[Volapük]]: [[kofön]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Compare [[gear]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{nautical}} A gear; a tackle.
# ''(Nautical)(plural)''. An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[jeer capstan]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|A gear; a tackle}}
* German: {{t+|de|Fall|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Manx==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sga|gv}} {{term|dír||due, fit, proper|lang=sga}}.

===Adjective===
{{infl|gv|adjective}}

# [[indeed]], [[verily]], [[truly]], [[actually]]
#* '''Jeer''' {{l|gv|cha}} {{l|gv|nel}}!
#** ''Indeed it is not!''

====Related terms====
* {{l|gv|jeeragh}}

----

==Somali==

===Noun===
{{infl|so|noun}} {{g|Somali}}

# [[hippopotamus|Hippopotamus]]
<!--Not sure that the translation is totally right, that's why I leave it hidden
#: ''Jeertu way jeclayd dhexqaadka dhoobaada'' - The hippopotamus loved wallowing. -->

[[et:jeer]]
[[fa:jeer]]
[[io:jeer]]
[[it:jeer]]
[[kn:jeer]]
[[lt:jeer]]
[[ml:jeer]]
[[my:jeer]]
[[ru:jeer]]
[[fi:jeer]]
[[ta:jeer]]
[[te:jeer]]
[[vi:jeer]]
[[zh:jeer]]