==English==

===Etymology===
Transliteration of  Hebrew  [[יְהֹוָה]], the Masoretic vocalization  of the Biblical Hebrew [[יהוה]].
The Masoretic vocalization is a so-called   ''qeri perpetuum'', the deliberate insertion of the vowels of another word than the one represented by the consonant text, in  this case "adonai" ([[אדני]]) "my lord".

Continuing earlier [[Iehova|Iehoua]]. In English, the name is first attested in 1530, in Tyndale's Bible: ''I appeared vnto Abraham Isaac and Iacob an allmightie God: but in my name Iehouah was I not knowne vnto them'' (Exodus 6:3).
Wyclif's Bible used ''Adonay'' instead of Tyndale's ''Iehouah''. The KJV also has ''JEHOVAH'' in this verse specifically, while it uses ''LORD'' otherwise. Young's Literal Translation (1898) has ''Jehovah''. The New King James Version (1982) has ''LORD''.

The Divine Name King James Bible published by The Divine Name Publishers; copyright @2012 has restored the name of God 6972 times in this version. The majority of modern translators of the Bible have not spoken out against the unjustifiable practice of removing God's unique name and substituting it with the ambiguous terms "Lord" or "God". There are over 13,000 documents preserved from the time before Jesus Christ, that establish without doubt that faithful Jewish people revered and used the Divine Name. 

Unlike the superstitious Jewish religious leaders who attempted to hide God's personal name, Jesus clearly stated it was his purpose to make his father's name known. “I have made your name manifest to the men you gave me out of the world. . . . I have made your name known to them and will make it known.”—JOHN 17:6, 26.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dʒəˈhoʊvə/|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{religion}} The personal name of God in the Hebrew Scriptures; in Hebrew, [[יהוה]] ([[YHVH]])

====Derived terms====
* [[Jehovist]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Transliteration of the Masoretic vocalization of the Tetragrammaton}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|يهوه|m|tr=yahwah, yahwa|sc=Arab}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|Jehovà|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|耶和華|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|耶和华|tr=Yēhéhuá|sc=Hani}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|Jehova}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|Jehovo}}
* Fijian: {{t-|fj|Jiova}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|Jehova}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Jéhovah}}
* German: {{t+|de|Jehova}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Ιεχωβά|m|tr=Iechová}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|יהוה|m|tr=yahwe|sc=Hebr}}
* Igbo: {{tø|ig|Jehova}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Geova}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|エホバ|tr=Ehoba|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|여호와|tr=Yeohowa|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|Iehova}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|Јехова|m|tr=Jehóva}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Yahvey|m}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|Jiihóvah}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|Jehowa|m}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|Иегова|m|tr=Ijegóva}}
* Samoan: {{t-|sm|Ieova}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Jehová|m}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|Yehova}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|Jehova}}
* Tongan: {{t-|to|Jihova}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|Giê-hô-va}}
* Xhosa: {{t-|xh|uYehova}}
* Zulu: {{t-|zu|uJehova}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|Yahweh}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Chinese:
*: {{ttbc|nan}}: {{zh-ts|耶和華|耶和华}} ([[Iâ-hô-hoa]])
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t+|fr|Jéhovah}}
* {{ttbc|he}}: {{t+|he|יהוה}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|la}}: {{t-|la|Iehova}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: {{t-|sk|Jehova|m}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|Jehová|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{informal}} A [[Jehovah's Witness]].
#* ''I've never had '''Jehovahs''' at my door, but the other day two Mormons came to my door.''

====Translations====
{{trans-see|Jehovah's Witness}}

===See also===
* [[hallelujah]]
* [[Jah]]
* [[Yahuwah]]
* [[Yahweh]]
* [[YHWH]]

[[Category:en:Biblical derivations]]
[[Category:en:God]]
[[Category:en:Gods]]

[[zh-min-nan:Jehovah]]
[[et:Jehovah]]
[[el:Jehovah]]
[[it:Jehovah]]
[[hu:Jehovah]]
[[nl:Jehovah]]
[[pl:Jehovah]]
[[ru:Jehovah]]