==English==

===Etymology===
From the name of a minor biblical character, from {{der|en|he|יְמִימָה||dove}}. By [[folk etymology]] also used as a feminine form of {{m|en|James}}.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|en|female|from=Hebrew}}.
#* {{RQ:King James Version|Job|42|13-15|passage=He had also seven sons and three daughters. And he called the name of the first, '''Jemima'''; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch. And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.}}
#* '''1853''' {{w|Elizabeth Gaskell}}, ''Ruth'', Chapter XVII:
#*: -- and at last '''Jemima''' was fixed upon, because it would do either for a Scripture name or for a heroine out of a book."
#*: "I did not know '''Jemima''' was a Scripture name," said Ruth.
#*: "Oh yes, it is. One of Job's daughters; '''Jemima''', Kezia, and Keren-Happuch. There are a good many '''Jemimas''' in the world, and some Kezias, but I never heard of a Keren-Happuch; and yet we know just as much of one as of another. People really like a pretty name, whether Scripture or out of it."
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2005|author={{w|Zadie Smith}}|title=On Beauty|page=51|publisher=Penguin|year_published=2006|isbn=9780141026664
|passage=But then, thought Kiki, they were brought up that way, these white American boys: I'm the Aunt '''Jemima''' on the cookie boxes of their childhoods, the pair of thick ankles Tom and Jerry played around. Of course they find me funny.}}
#* '''2011''', Ann Cleeves, ''Hidden Depths'', Pan Macmillan ({{ISBN|9780330528641}}), page 165:a
#*: Fancy southern names which she couldn&#39;t remember five minutes after they&#39;d told  her. Camilla? Amelia? '''Jemima'''? It didn&#39;t matter. Ashworth would have made a  note of them.

====Usage notes====
* Jemima has largely fallen out of use in North America due to the association with advertising character {{w|Aunt Jemima}}, interpreted as a racial stereotype of African-Americans. See {{m|en|Aunt Jemima}}.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|female given name}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Jemina}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[elastic]]-sided [[boot]].

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aeijmm|jammie}}

----

==Faroese==

===Proper noun===
{{head|fo|proper noun|g=f}}

# {{given name|fo|female}}

====Usage notes====
''Matronymics''
* son of Jemima: '''Jemimuson'''
* daughter of Jemima: '''Jemimudóttir'''

====Declension====
{{fo-decl-proper-noun-s-indef|Jemima|Jemimu|Jemimu|Jemimu}}