==English==
Jerk is a meanie who poops his pants like Justin Cunha.
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʤɜ:k/}}
* {{audio|en-us-jerk.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*: Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)k|-ɜː(r)k]]

===Etymology 1===
Apparently imitative.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A quick, often unpleasant [[tug]] or shake.
#: ''When I yell "OK," give the mooring line a good '''jerk'''!''
# A sudden, uncontrolled movement, for instance, of the body.
# {{physics}} the [[change]] in [[acceleration]] with respect to [[time]].
#: Usage note: Jerk is measured in [[metre]]s per [[cubic]] [[second]] (m/s<sup>3</sup>) in [[SI]] units , or in [[feet]] per cubic second (ft/s<sup>3</sup>) in [[imperial]] units.
# {{US|slang|pejorative}} A person who is unwelcome due to unlikable qualities and behavior, often mean, foolish or disagreeable.
# A rich, spicy Jamaican [[marinade]]; a [[dish]] made with such a marinade.

====Translations====
{{rfc-level|Translations at L3+ (AutoFormat would have corrected level of Translations)}}
{{trans-top|A quick, often unpleasant tug or shake}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[هزة]]}} (hazza)
* Finnish: [[nytkähdys]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Ruck]] {{m}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[succussa]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A sudden, uncontrolled movement, for instance, of the body}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[رعشة]]}} (Ra'asha)
* Finnish: [[nytkähdys]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[Zuckung]] {{f}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[spasmo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the change in acceleration with respect to time}}
* Czech: ryv
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A person, usually male, who is unwelcome due to unlikable qualities and behavior}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[أحمق]]}} or {{ARchar|[[مغفل]]}}
* Finnish: [[idiootti]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[vexator]]
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Italian]]: [[idiota]]
* Spanish: [[gilí]] {{m|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A rich, spicy Jamaican marinade; a dish made with such a marinade}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కుదుపు]] (kudupu)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To make a [[quick]], often [[unpleasant]] [[tug]] or [[shake]].
# To make a [[sudden]] [[uncontrolled]] [[movement]].
# To [[marinade]] in jerk [[seasoning]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To make a quick, often unpleasant tug or shake}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[يهز]]}}
* Finnish: [[nytkähtää]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[rucken]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To make a sudden uncontrolled movement}}
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[يرتعش]]}}
* Finnish: [[nytkähtää]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[zucken]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To marinade in jerk seasoning}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కుదుపు]] (kudupu)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[jerk off]]

====See also====
* [[acceleration]]
* [[displacement]]
* [[velocity]]

===Etymology 2===
From American Spanish ''[[charquear]]'', from ''[[charqui]]'', from Quechua ''[[echarqui]]'' ‘strips of dried flesh’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[cure]] (meat) by cutting it into strips and drying it, originally in the sun.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# Meat cured by jerking; [[charqui]].

[[Category:Physics]]

[[bg:jerk]]
[[et:jerk]]
[[fa:jerk]]
[[fr:jerk]]
[[io:jerk]]
[[it:jerk]]
[[ru:jerk]]
[[sv:jerk]]
[[te:jerk]]
[[vi:jerk]]
[[zh:jerk]]