{{also|Jeudi}}
==French==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fr|fro|jeudi}}, {{m|fro|jusdi}}, from {{inh|fr|la||Jovis diēs}} or {{m|la||Iovis diēs}}, variant of {{m|la|diēs Iovis||day of Jupiter}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA|jeûdi}}
* {{audio|Fr-jeudi-fr-ouest.ogg|Audio (France)|lang=fr}}
* {{rhymes|i|lang=fr}}
* {{homophones|jeudis|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[Thursday]] (day of the week).
#*{{quote-book|1986||Il était une fois … une petite grenouille|||{{ux|fr|En avant, la musique des jours de la semaine.<br>En avant, la musique des jours de la semaine.<br>Lundi marche devant,<br>Rantaplan.<br>Mardi joue de la trompette,<br>De la trompette.<br>Mercredi du violon,<br>Du violon.<br>'''Jeudi''' de l’accordéon,<br>De l’accordéon.<br>Vendredi et samedi chantent la chanson de dimanche.<br>Vendredi et samedi chantent la chanson de dimanche.<br>En avant, la musique des jours de la semaine.<br>En avant, la musique des jours de la semaine.|Onward, the music of the days of the week.<br>Onward, the music of the days of the week.<br>Monday march ahead,<br>Rantaplan.<br>Tuesday plays the trumpet,<br>The trumpet.<br>Wednesday the violin,<br>The violin.<br>Thursday the accordion,<br>The accordion.<br>Friday and Saturday sing the song of Sunday.<br>Friday and Saturday sing the song of Sunday.<br>Onward, the music of the days of the week.<br>Onward, the music of the days of the week.}}|chapter=Il était une fois … une maison des musiciens|trans-chapter=There Once Was… a House of Musicians|trans-title=There Once Was… a Little Frog|genre=fiction|language=French|publisher={{w2|fr|CLE International}}|location=Paris}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|fr|la semaine des quatre jeudis}}

===See also===
* {{list:days of the week/fr}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Norman==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|nrf|Jeudi}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
* {{l|nrf|jéeudi}} {{qualifier|continental Normandy}}
* {{l|nrf|djödi}} {{qualifier|Sark}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nrf|fro|jeudi}}, {{m|fro|jusdi}}, from {{inh|nrf|la||Jovis diēs}} or {{m|la||Iovis diēs}}, a variant of {{m|la|diēs Iovis||day of Jupiter}}.

===Noun===
{{nrf-noun|m}}

# {{lb|nrf|Guernsey}} [[Thursday]]

{{topics|nrf|Days of the week}}

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|jusdi}}, {{l|fro|juesdi}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fro|la||Jovis diēs}} or {{m|la||Iovis diēs}}, variant of {{m|la|diēs Iovis}}.

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m}}

# [[Thursday]]

====Descendants====
* French: {{l|fr|jeudi}}
* Norman: {{l|nrf|jeudi}}
* Walloon: {{l|wa|djudi}}

====References====
* {{R:Godefroy|supplement=1}}<!--contains a long list of alternative forms, too long to list here-->

[[Category:fro:Days of the week]]