{{also|jew}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|Jew}}

===Etymology===
See the article ''[[w:Jew (word)|Jew (word)]]'' in [[Wikipedia]] (an etymology of the word ''Jew'').

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|uː}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An adherent of [[Judaism]].
# A person who claims a cultural or ancestral connection to the Jewish people (see [[secular Jew]]).
#:Hath not a '''Jew''' eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs<br>
#:dimensions, senses, affections, passions; fed with<br>
#:the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject<br>
#:to the same diseases, heal'd by the same means,<br>
#:warm'd and cool'd by the same winter and summer<br>
#:as a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed?<br>
#:If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us,<br>
#:do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge? 

[[William]] Shakespeare ''The Merchant of [[Venice]]'' (Act III, scene I)

====Usage notes====
* The Jewish community overall has a common religion, culture, identity, and ethnicity, but individual Jews do not necessarily share all of these; therefore, a person might be a Jew by one standpoint but not by another.
* Additionally, there are some religious groups that identify themselves as part of Judaism, but that other Jewish groups might not; hence, use of the term ''Jew'' often depends on the speaker's opinions.
* The noun ''Jew'' is not offensive, and the overwhelming majority of English-speaking Jews use the noun ''Jew'' to identify themselves.
* That said, it has become offensive for historical reasons to use the word ''Jew'' attributively, in modifying another noun (as in "Jew lawyer"); the adjective ''[[Jewish]]'' is preferred for this purpose.
* Additionally, the derived verbs ''[[jew]]'' and ''[[jew down]]'' are considered offensive, as they reflect stereotypes considered offensive.

====Synonyms====
* [[Jewess]] (''female'' — ''archaic'')
* [[Hebrew]] {{dated}}
* [[Israelite]] {{dated}}
* [[kike]] {{derogatory}}
* [[Moses]] (''dated'', ''derogatory'')
* [[yid]] (''derogatory'')

====Translations====
{{trans-top|person of the Jewish faith}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[يهودي]]}} (Yahūdiyy) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[հրեա]] (hrea)
* [[Azeri]]: {{t|az|yəhudi|xs=Azeri}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|яўрэй|m|tr=jawréj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|яўрэйка|f|tr=jawréjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}}, {{qualifier|now obsolete}} {{t|be|габрэй|m|tr=habréj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|габрэйка|f|tr=habréjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bosnian: [[jevrej#Bosnian|jevrej]], [[žid#Bosnian|žid]] {{m}} [[jevrejka#Bosnian|jevrejka]], [[židovka#Bosnian|židovka]] {{f}}
* Bulgarian: [[евреин]] (evrein) {{m}}, [[еврейка]] (evreyka) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[jueu]] {{m}}, [[jueva]] {{f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: [[猶太人]], [[犹太人]] (Yóutài-rén)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Žid|m}}, {{t-|cs|Židovka|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|jøde|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|jood|m|f}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|juut}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[Yudatɔ]]
* Faroese: [[jødi]] {{m}}, [[gýðingur]] {{m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|juutalainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|juif|m}}, {{t+|fr|juive|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ებრაელი|tr=ebrauli|sc=Geor|xs=Georgian}}
* German: {{t+|de|Jude|m}}, {{t+|de|Jüdin|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Εβραίος|m|tr=evréos|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[יהודי]] (Yehudi) {{m}}, [[יהודיה]] (Yehudiah) {{f}}, [[יהודים]] (Yehudim) {{m|p}}, [[יהודיות]] (Yehudiot) {{f|p}}
* Hindi: [[यहूदी]] (yahūdī)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|zsidó}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ebreo|m}}, {{t+|it|ebrea|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[ユダヤ人]] (ユダヤじん, Yudaya-jin)
* Korean: [[유태인]] (yude-in)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[جوله‌که‌]]}}
* Latin: [[Iudaeus]] {{m}}, [[Iudaea]] {{f}}
* Latvian: [[ebrejs]] {{m}}, [[žīds]] {{m}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|Yahudi|xs=Malay}}
* Maltese: {{t-|mt|ludi|xs=Maltese}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[یهودی]]}} (yahudi)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|żyd|m}}, {{t|pl|żydówka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|judeu|m}}, {{t+|pt|judia|f}}
* Romanian: [[evreu]] {{m}}, [[evreică]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|иудей|m|tr=iudéj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|иудейка|f|tr=iudéjka|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|еврей|m|tr=jevréj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|еврейка|f|tr=jevréjka|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Iùdhach|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[јевреј#Serbian|јевреј]] {{m}}, [[јеврејка#Serbian|јеврејка]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[jevrej#Serbian|jevrej]] {{m}}, [[jevrejka#Serbian|jevrejka]] {{f}}, [[žid]] {{m}}, [[židkinja]] {{f}}
* Slovak: [[žid]] {{m}}, [[židovka]] {{f}}
* Slovene: [[žid]] {{m}}, [[židinja]] {{f}}, [[jud]] {{m}}, [[judinja]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|judío|m}}, {{t-|es|judía|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|jude|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[యూదు]] (yUdu)
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|Yahudi}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|іудей|m|tr=iudéj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t|uk|іудейка|f|tr=iudéjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[یہودی]]}} (yahūdī)
* [[West Frisian]]: [[joad]] {{m}}, [[joadinne]] {{f}}
* Yiddish: [[ייִד]] (Yid) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a person with a Jewish cultural or ancestral connection}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[يهودي]]}} (Yahūdiyy) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[հրեա]] (hrea)
* Belarusian: {{t|be|яўрэй|m|tr=jawréj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|яўрэйка|f|tr=jawréjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|габрэй|m|tr=habréj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|габрэйка|f|tr=habréjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{qualifier|now abusive}} {{t|be|жыд|m|tr=žyd|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}},  {{t|be|жыдоўка|f|tr=žydówka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|евреин|m|tr=evrein|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: [[猶太人]], [[犹太人]] (Yóutài-rén)
* Croatian: {{t|hr|Jevrejin|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Žid|m}}, {{t-|cs|Židovka|f}}
* Dutch: [[Joods]] {{m|f}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[Yudatɔ]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|Juif|m}},  {{t|fr|Juive}}
* German: {{t+|de|Jude|m}},  {{t+|de|Jüdin|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|zsidó}}
* Japanese: [[ユダヤ人]] (ユダヤじん, Yudaya-jin)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[جوله‌که‌]]}}
* [[Lower Sorbian]]: [[Žyd]] {{m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Żyd|m}}, {{t|pl|Żydówka|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|еврей|m|tr=jevréj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ru|еврейка|f|tr=jevréjka|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|now abusive}} {{t+|ru|жид|m|tr=žid|sc=Cyrl}},  {{t|ru|жидовка|f|tr=židóvka|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|Iùdhach|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: {{t|sr|Јеврејин|m|tr=Jevrejin|sc=Cyrl}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|єврей|m|tr=jevréj|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t|uk|єврейка|f|tr=jevréjka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t-|uk|жид|m|tr=žyd|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t|uk|жидовка|f|tr=žydóvka|sc=Cyrl|xs=Ukrainian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[Wandering Jew]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{offensive}} {{alternative spelling of|[[jew]]}}

[[Category:Religion]]

[[et:Jew]]
[[fr:Jew]]
[[io:Jew]]
[[it:Jew]]
[[sw:Jew]]
[[ku:Jew]]
[[hu:Jew]]
[[no:Jew]]
[[pl:Jew]]
[[ru:Jew]]
[[fi:Jew]]
[[zh:Jew]]