==English==
{{was wotd|2019|March|11}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP|GA}} {{IPA|/dʒaɪb/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪb|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
{{unknown|en|title=Origin uncertain}}; possibly from {{der|en|fro|giber||to engage in horseplay; to play roughly in sport}}. Compare {{cog|en|jib||usually of a horse: to stop and refuse to go forward}},<ref>{{R:OED Online|entry=gibe, jibe|part of speech=v|id=78140|date=1899|nodot=yes}}; {{R:Oxford Dictionaries Online|entry=jibe}}</ref> {{cog|non|geipa||to talk nonsense}}.

The noun is derived from the verb.<ref>{{R:OED Online|entry=gibe, jibe|part of speech=''n.{{sup|1}}''|noformat=yes|id=78138|date=1899}}</ref>

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[facetious]] or [[insulting#Adjective|insulting]] [[remark#Noun|remark]]; a [[jeer#Noun|jeer]], a [[taunt#Noun|taunt]].
#* c. '''1600''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Hamlet}}'', Act V, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=hamlet&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: Where be your '''gibes''' now? your [[gambol]]s? your songs? your flashes of merriment that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your own grinning?
#* '''1746''', {{w|Charles Macklin}}, ''King Henry the VII: Or the Popish Impostor. A Tragedy'', London: R. Francklin et al., Act II, p. 24,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004784727.0001.000]</sup>
#*: {{...}} Come, come, we
#*: All are Friends, nor have we Time for '''Jibe''',
#*: Or Anger now, but 'gainst our common Foes,
#*: The ''French'' and ''Scot''; there let your Pray’rs, and Jests,
#*: And Blows, be levell’d.
#* '''1862''', {{w|Christina Rossetti}}, “{{w|Goblin Market}}” in ''{{w|Goblin Market and Other Poems}}'', London: Macmillan, pp. 24-25,<sup>[http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100613555]</sup>
#*: She ran and ran
#*: As if she feared some goblin man
#*: Dogged her with '''gibe''' or curse
#*: Or something worse:
#* '''1903''', {{w|W. E. B. Du Bois}}, ''{{w|The Souls of Black Folk}}'', Chapter 12,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/408/408-h/408-h.htm]</sup>
#*: He bent to all the '''gibes''' and prejudices, to all hatred and discrimination, with that rare courtesy which is the armor of pure souls.
#* '''1920''', {{w|F. Scott Fitzgerald}}, ''{{w|This Side of Paradise}}'', Book One, Chapter 1,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/805/805-h/805-h.htm]</sup>
#*: He had written two novels: one of them violently anti-Catholic, just before his conversion, and five years later another, in which he had attempted to turn all his clever '''jibes''' against Catholics into even cleverer innuendoes against Episcopalians.
#: ''He flung subtle '''jibes''' at her until she couldn't bear to work with him any longer.''
#* {{quote-journal|author={{w|Jeff Greenfield}}|title=Ragged but Funny|journal=[[w:New York (magazine)|New York]]|date=27 October 1975|volume=8|issue=43|page={{gbooks|ZugCAAAAMBAJ|65|gibes}}|passage=Carlin's opening-night monologue included some blunt '''gibes''' at organized religion which would almost certainly have been cut out of any other network show.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|facetious or insulting remark}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|подигравка|f}}, {{t+|bg|насмешка|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Spöttelei|f}}, {{t|de|spöttische Bemerkung|f}}, {{t+|de|Stichelei|f}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hnjóðsyrði|n}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|потсмев|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tīkai}}, {{t|mi|takao}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cuchufleta}}, {{t+|es|puya}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gliring|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|jib}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[reproach#Verb|reproach]] with [[contemptuous]] [[word#Noun|words]]; to [[deride]], to [[mock#Verb|mock]], to [[taunt#Verb|taunt]].
#: {{synonyms|en|flout}}
#* c. '''1606''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Antony and Cleopatra}}'', Act II, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=antonycleo&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: {{...}} you
#*: Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
#*: Did '''gibe''' my missive out of audience.
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: Draw the beasts as I describe them, / From their features, while I '''gibe''' them.
#* '''1714''', {{w|John Arbuthnot}}, ''A Farther Continuation of the History of the Crown-Inn'', London: J. Moor, Part III, p. 15,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004788043.0001.000]</sup>
#*: We could hardly speak before for fear of our ''Taskmasters''; but we dare now Nose those Villains that used to '''gibe''' us.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[say#Verb|say]] in a [[mocking#Adjective|mocking]] or [[taunting#Adjective|taunting]] [[manner]].
#* '''1936''', {{w|Margaret Mitchell}}, ''[[w:Gone with the Wind (novel)|Gone with the Wind]]'', Part One, Chapter 6,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks02/0200161h.html]</sup>
#*: “Eavesdroppers often hear highly instructive things,” '''jibed''' a memory.
#* '''1953''', {{w|James Hilton}}, ''Time and Time Again'', Paris III,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks06/0600891h.html]</sup>
#*: ‘What’s the matter with you?’ the woman '''jibed'''. She called after him as he walked away: 'Nuts, that's what you are!’
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To make a mocking [[remark#Noun|remark]] or remarks; to [[jeer#Verb|jeer]].
#* c. '''1594''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[w:Love's Labour's Lost|Love’s Labour’s Lost]]'', Act V, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=loveslabours&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: Why, that’s the way to choke a '''gibing''' spirit,
#*: Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
#*: Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools:
#* Jonathan Swift
#*: Fleer and '''gibe''', and laugh and flout.
#* '''1722''', {{w|Daniel Defoe}}, ''{{w|Moll Flanders}}'', London: W. Chetwood & T. Edling, p. 7,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004843555.0001.000]</sup>
#*: This set the old Gentlewoman a Laughing at me, as you may be sure it would: Well, Madam forsooth, says she, '''''Gibing''' at me'', you would be a Gentlewoman, and pray how will you come to be a Gentlewoman? what, will you do it by your Fingers Ends?
#* '''1928''', {{w|Radclyffe Hall}}, ''{{w|The Well of Loneliness}}'', Book Two, Chapter 27,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks06/0609021h.html]</sup>
#*: But now her mother was speaking again: ‘And this—read this and tell me if you wrote it, or if that man’s lying.’ And Stephen must read her own misery '''jibing''' at her from those pages in Ralph Crossby’s stiff and clerical handwriting.

=====Alternative forms=====
* {{l|en|gibe}}
* {{l|en|gybe}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|gibingly}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to reproach with contemptuous words}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to say in a mocking or taunting manner}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a mocking remark or remarks}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{unknown|en|title=Origin unknown}}; perhaps related to {{m|en|chime||to cause to sound in harmony}}.<ref>{{R:OED Online|part of speech=v|id=101266|date=1901}}</ref>

====Verb====
{{en-verb|jib}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|Canada|US|informal}} To [[accord#Verb|accord]] or [[agree]].
#: {{ux|en|That explanation doesn’t '''jibe''' with the facts.}}
#* Hearings Before the Select Committee on Investigation of the Tariff Commission. U.S. Government Printing Office, 1926
#*: ''There is something wrong with your figures. They do not '''jibe with''' experience. They do not '''jibe with prices'''. They do not '''jibe with''' what we know.

====Usage notes====
''Jibe'' and {{m|en|jive}} have been used interchangeably in the US to indicate the concept “to accord or agree”. While one recent dictionary accepts this usage of ''jive'', most sources consider it to be in error.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|gibe}}
* {{l|en|gybe}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to accord or agree}}
* French: {{t+|fr|s'accorder}}, {{t+|fr|se mettre d'accord}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|concordar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
''See'' {{m|en|gybe}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|nautical|now|chiefly|US}} {{alternative form of|gybe|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|jib}}

# {{lb|en|nautical|now|chiefly|US}} {{alternative form of|gybe|lang=en}}

===References===
<references />

[[Category:en:Comedy]]