==About Us==
GAURS INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL, Noida under the umbrella of GAURS group of companies will nurture students from Pre Nursery to X in the fourth year for the Session 2018-2019 for which Admission process is already started and further will nurture students till class XII, with excellence in education as its watchword, the school is committed to uphold the standards and ideals the GAURS group.

Its aesthetically planned air conditioned classroom, and other state-of-the-art facilities like air-conditioned buses, well equipped Computer labs. The icing on the cake is that in these times of over-crowded class-rooms resulting in lack of personal attention, the school believes in low student-teacher ratio with a view to draw out the inherent talents of each student and nurture them to see them bloom. Its painstakingly planned facilities and infrastructure in the form of Art/Dance/Music Room.

The school provides out-standing facilities in the field of sports as well like shooting range facility, and above all, National Level coaches for training our students in various sports, make one feel that finally we have arrived at a destination providing complete education leading to the holistic development of personality.

GAUR INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL is just another step forward in the field of education indeed a quantum leap in the arena of education! Surely, you see your child bloom, where he is planted!

GAURS INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL is proposing an innovative direction in education where young children are respected as competent thinkers and communicators who are ordered many opportunities to engage with range of materials and resources to extend and challenge their thinking.

The GAURS INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL program focuses in an integrated way on all the faculties of the children. Our purpose is to equip our children with the right balance, knowledge and social skills, emotional development, physical coordination and aesthetic appreciation. Rather than an emphasis on imbibing information, we believe in respecting the child's ability to inquire. Recent search has proved that this balance is crucial in the early years to ensure better integration in the school and society. Our well prepared program emphasizes harmonious progress by building a solid foundation for future learning.

At GAURS INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL we have adopted best teaching practices and enriched our curriculum on the Early Years Foundation Stage framework which tells how and what your child will be learning to support their healthy development.

Promoters of Gaurs International School 
GAURS, LEADERS IN REAL ESTATE,
HAVE ENTERED THE EDUCATION ARENA
WITH THE MISSION OF CREATING LEADERS.
With a proud history of delivering projects on time and as per promised specifications, GAURS is a name to reckon with when it comes to real estate in NCR. With a burgeoning list of residential projects that encompass high end apartments to highly affordable accommodations occupied by thousands of happy families, GAURS stress on customer's trust has become the winning mantra. A fact our customers would vouch for. "The synonym of trust in reality" that's what GAURS stands for. Setting a strong foundation to every endeavor for building better infrastructure. The future surely belongs to this enterprising real estate group.

A good foundation founded in the year 1995, GAURS has never looked back. Since the very successful first year of its inception, it is on a journey of architectural excellence and customer satisfaction. This journey has had many milestones along the way. This multi interest, multi-utility, real estate company is determined to create new architectural marvels in the future.

Growth rate, beyond words and beyond all expectation since 1995, thousands of satisfied customers of Gaursons and brilliance in all their architectural projects have given the group the success it deserves. Through the years, customers have shown their faith and support in all the real estate endeavors of the GAURS. This trust of customers has been, the one single factor which has propelled the company to phenomenal heights of consistent growth and development.

===Vision / Mission===
{{Vision / Mission}}

http://gaursinternationalschool.com/page.php?PAGE=3
====Locations====
Gaurs International School 
Gaur City-II, Plot No.-GH 03,
Sector-16C, G-Noida (West)
Phone No: +91 - 8588863472, 8588863474
School Landline No: 0120-6710449
Website: www.gaursinternationalschool.com