==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|he}} {{term|ירדן|tr=yarden|sc=Hebr|lang=he}}, Jordan (originally the river).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈdʒɔːdən/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈdʒɔːrdən/}}
* {{audio|en-us-Jordan.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(r)dən}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# A [[country]] in the [[Middle East]]. Official name: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
# {{rivers}} A river of the [[Middle East]], mentioned in the [[Bible]], that empties into the [[Dead Sea]], and after which the country is named.
# {{given name|male|from=Hebrew}}; in the Middle Ages given to children baptized with Jordan water brought by [[Crusader]]s.
#* '''1989''' [[w:Jeanette Winterson|Jeanette Winterson]], ''Sexing the Cherry'', Grove Press 1998, ISBN 0802135781, pages 3-4:
#*: I call him '''Jordan''' and it will do. He has no other name before or after. What was there to call him, fished as he was from the stinking Thames? A child can't be called Thames, no and not Nile either, for all his likeness to Moses. But I wanted to given him a river name, a name not bound to anything, just as the waters aren't bound to anything.
# {{surname|from=given names|dot=}} derived from the male given name.
# {{given name|female|from=Hebrew}} used since mid-20th century.

====Derived terms====
* [[Jordanian]]
* [[Jordanesque]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|country}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[الأردن]]}} (al-’úrdunn) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[Հորդանան]] (Hordanan)
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|Jordan|m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[Jordania]]
* Chinese: [[約旦]], [[约旦]] (Yuēdàn)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|Jordan|m}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|Jordánsko|n}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|Jordan}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Jordanië}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|Jordanio|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Jordania}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Jordanie|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Jordanien|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Ιορδανία|f|tr=Iordanía|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|ירדן|tr=Yardēn|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Jordánia}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|Jórdanía|f}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[Jordania]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|Giordania|f}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|ヨルダン|tr=yorudan|sc=Jpan}}
* [[Kalenjin]]: {{tø|kln|Jodan}}
* [[Kamba]]: {{tø|kam|Jondani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Kikuyu]]: {{tø|ki|Jordan}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|Iordania|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|Jordanija|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Luhya]]: {{tø|luy|Jordan}}
* [[Luo]]: {{tø|luo|Jordan}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|Јордан|m|tr=Jórdan|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Maltese: il-[[Ġurdan]]
* [[Meru]]: {{tø|mer|Jordan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Jordan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Jordania|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Jordânia|f}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|Iordania|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Иордания|f|tr=Iordánija|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[Giurdania]] {{f}}, [[Giordania]] {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|Jordanija|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Jordania|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Yordani|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Jordanien}}
* [[Tatar]]: [[Jordan#Tatar|Jordan]]
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|Ürdün}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|Yordän|xs=Volapük}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|river}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[الأردن|الأُرْدُنّ]]}} (al-’úrdunn) {{m}}
* Armenian: [[Հորդանան]] (Hordanan)
* [[Catalan]]: [[Jordà]] {{m}}
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|Jordan|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Jordán|m}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|Jordan}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Jordan}}
* French: {{t-|fr|Jourdain|m}}
* German: {{t-|de|Jordan|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|ירדן|tr=yarden|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Jordán}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|Jórdan|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Giordano|m}}
* Japanese: [[ヨルダン川]] (yorudan-gawa)
* Latin: [[Iordanus]] {{m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Jordanas|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|Јордан|m|tr=Jórdan|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|Jordan}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Иордан|m|tr=Iordán|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t-|ru|Ярдена|f|tr=Jardéna|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|Jordán|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Jordan}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|male given name}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Jordan}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Jordán}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|Јордан|tr=Jórdan|sc=Cyrl|xs=Macedonian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the world]]

[[Category:Countries]]
[[Category:Exonyms]]
[[Category:Rivers]]

----

==Croatian==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|hr|proper noun|g=m}}

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''country'')
# Jordan (''river'')

[[Category:hr:Countries]]
[[Category:hr:Rivers]]

----

==Danish==

===Proper noun===
'''Jordan'''

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''country'')
# [[#English|Jordan]] (''river'')

[[Category:Danish proper nouns]]
[[Category:da:Countries]]
[[Category:da:Rivers]]

----

==Finnish==

===Proper noun===
{{fi-noun|Jordan|type=kalsium|proper=true}}

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''river'').

[[Category:fi:Rivers]]

----

==French==

===Proper noun===
{{infl|fr|proper noun}}

# {{given name|male|lang=fr}}, cognate to English [[#English|Jordan]].

----

==German==

===Proper noun===
'''Jordan''' {{m}}

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''river'')

[[Category:German proper nouns]]
[[Category:de:Rivers]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
'''Jordan'''

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''country'')
# [[#English|Jordan]] (''river'')

====Related terms====
* [[jordaner]]
* [[jordansk]]

[[Category:Norwegian proper nouns]]
[[Category:no:Countries]]
[[Category:no:Rivers]]

----

==Swedish==

===Proper noun===
'''Jordan'''

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''river'')

[[Category:Swedish proper nouns]]
[[Category:sv:Rivers]]

----

==Tatar==

===Proper noun===
'''Jordan'''

# [[#English|Jordan]] (''country'')

====References====
* http://www.azatliq.org/news/international/tb/archives/2005/01/06.asp

[[Category:Tatar proper nouns]]
[[Category:tt:Countries]]

[[bg:Jordan]]
[[et:Jordan]]
[[el:Jordan]]
[[fa:Jordan]]
[[fr:Jordan]]
[[fy:Jordan]]
[[ko:Jordan]]
[[hi:Jordan]]
[[hr:Jordan]]
[[id:Jordan]]
[[it:Jordan]]
[[sw:Jordan]]
[[lo:Jordan]]
[[lt:Jordan]]
[[hu:Jordan]]
[[ja:Jordan]]
[[no:Jordan]]
[[pl:Jordan]]
[[pt:Jordan]]
[[ru:Jordan]]
[[sl:Jordan]]
[[sr:Jordan]]
[[fi:Jordan]]
[[sv:Jordan]]
[[th:Jordan]]
[[tr:Jordan]]
[[vi:Jordan]]
[[zh:Jordan]]