According to Black's Law Dictionary, "judgment proof" is a phrase that describes:

    1. all persons against whom judgments for money recoveries are of no effect; e.g., persons who are insolvent, who do not have sufficient property within the jurisdiction of the court to satisfy the judgment, or

    2. who are protected by statutes, which exempt wages and property from execution.

Essentially, judgment proof people are judgment debtors who cannot afford to pay their damages. (A judgment debtor is someone who lost the claim in court, and must now pay the judgment creditor. A judgment creditor is the person who won the judgment.) A judgment debtor attains judgment proof status at his/her Show Cause Hearing when, by showing the court official his/her wage stubs, income tax statements, or oral testimonies, he/she convinces a court official that he/she cannot afford to pay his/her judgment. The court official then grants him/her a time extension on his/her damages payment.

It is also important to remember that, while the phrase "judgment proof" is a legal phrase, it is not one that is commonly used. "Judgment proof" is a convenient term (which is used in some courts, usually by judges, if at all), which is being used more and more often. Many court officials, however, never say the words "judgment proof"; they may not even know what it refers to. When addressing people who might qualify as "judgment proof," the court official may simply say, "The court finds that you are unable to pay judgment at this time; it grants you a one month extension." A judgment debtor, therefore, should not really expect to hear the term "judgment proof" at his/her Show Cause Hearing.