==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|up-jumped}}
* {{l|en|upjumped}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|En-au-jumped-up.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|head=[[jumped]]-[[up]]}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic|pejorative}} Describes a person who thinks or acts as if he/she is [[superior]] in some way that the speaker disagrees with. For instance, pretending to be of a higher [[class]] or having greater [[authority]] than he/she has in reality.
#: '''2007''', Nov 27. Scott Murray, writing in Guardian Unlimited. Stuttgart 3-2 Rangers
#:* We're doomed if this wee '''jumped-up''' monkey gets Gordon Smith's blessing.
# that has risen from a lowly station or an inferior position: often with implication of conceit or arrogance
#* '''1895''', ''Punch, or the London Charivari'', 24 August, 1895, "'Arry on Harry", [https://books.google.ca/books?id=S5kwAAAAYAAJ&dq=%22jumped-up+cheap+Coventry%22&source=gbs_navlinks_s]
#*: You '''jumped-up''', cheap, Coventry bagman, / silk-sampling, no doubt, is your biz
#* '''1919''', J.C. Snaith, ''The Undefeated'', chapter XXXIV, pp. 233-234, [https://archive.org/details/cu31924013224062]
#*: Well, you can have all my share of democracy. Between you and me, Gert, it's mainly a name for a lot of '''jumped-up''' ignoramuses who have no idea of how little they do know.
#* '''1938''', [[w:Xavier Herbert|Xavier Herbert]], ''[[w:Capricornia (novel)|Capricornia]]'', chapter II, p. 27, [https://archive.org/details/capricornianovel00herb]
#*: {{...}} the faithful service he gave was pearl cast before mean, gutless, brainless, '''up-jumped''' swine {{...}}
#* '''1982''', [[w:Tom Stoppard|Tom Stoppard]], ''[[w:On the Razzle (play)|On the Razzle]],
#*: {{...}} I'm damned if I'm going to be harried and put off my stroke by the ridiculous self-importance of a '''jumped-up''' pastry-cook.
#* '''2005''' [[w:George R.R. Martin|George R.R. Martin]], ''[[w:A Feast for Crows|A Feast for Crows]]
#*: "My good wife flatters them, to call them knights. They’re '''upjumped''' sellswords, with not a thimble of chivalry to be found amongst the four of them."
#* '''2014''' Brian Stavely, ''The Emperor's Blades'', [https://books.google.ca/books/about/The_Emperor_s_Blades.html?id=HR4KAgAAQBAJ&redir_esc=y]
#*: The man was an '''upjumped''' peasant with delusions of his own importance.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=dejmppuu|up-jumped|upjumped}}