[[Category:Move to Wiktionary 2007-11]]

'''Juretzko Surname Origins'''

Juretzka   Juretzki   Joretzko  Joreczka   Jureczko  Juretschko  Jureczka  Jureczki   

The earliest known records of the Juretzko surname are from Silesia.  During the course of centuries the name Juretschko has changed, reflecting the historical change of Silesia [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silesia (Silesia)]. Available records are explaining various deviations of the Juretzko name.

The surname Juretzko (also spelled Juretzka, Juretzki, Joretzko, Joreczka, Jureczko, Juretschko, Jureczka, and Jureczki) has many forms of spelling.  In the 1800’s it was common to see the name spelled differently among official church records.  The spelling would vary from event to event within the same family.  Thus the spelling of the last name would change for the same person depending upon the record.

'''1567 A.D.'''  Janek Juretschko is mentioned in the register of the hamlet Gamov belonging to Ratibor (Ratiborz in Polish) in Silesia.  Indications exist that he originated from the Carpathian-Ukrainian area.

Further historical accounts are leading and pinpointing to a hamlet, mentioned for the first time in a record dated 1228 A.D. as Rudolphi Villa, changing to Rydultau (German) [http://www.coldwarhistory.us/Exhibitions/History/Rydultau/rydultau.html (The History of Rydultau)], now known as Rydultowy (Polish), to be the possible root domicile of the Juretzko’s.

'''1845 A.D. through 1869 A.D.'''  Church records for Rydultau show the changing form of the last name of two fathers who had children during this period.  The historical source of this information is contained in the Kirchenbuchduplikat for the years 1830 to 1870.  The authors of this historical reference are the Katholische Kirch Nieder Rydultau Kreis Rybnik.  The records are currently available on mikrofilm aufgenommen von Manuskripten in Archiwum Państowowe Warszawa.  They contain the Catholic parish register transcripts of baptisms, births, marriages, and deaths in Nieder Rydultau, Schlesien, Germany.  The records include Ober Rydultau, now Rydultowy (Rybnik), Katowice, Poland.   These files are readily available through the Family History Library microfilms number 877383 [Item 2], and 877384 [all records].

'''[German Translation]'''
'''1567 N.C.''' wird der Name Janek Juretschko zum ersten Mal urkundlich in der Ortschaft Gamov bei Ratibor in Oberschlesien erwaehnt. Es wird angenommen das er aus der karpatischen Ukraine stammt.
 
Weitere historische Hinweise deuten auf den zum ersten mal 1228 N.C. geschichtlich erwaehnten Ort Rudolphi Villa, spaeter Rydultau und jetzt Rydultowy genannt, als den Ursprungsort der Juretzko Nachkommen.
 
Im Wandel der Jahrhunderte ist der Name Juretschko geaendert worden als die geschichtlichen Aenderungen Schlesiens erfassten. Urkunden sind vorhanden
 
welche die Abweichungen in der Schreibweise des Namens Juretzko, so wie diese oben aufgefuehrt sind, dokumentarisch belegen.

'''[Polish Translation]''' 
'''W 1567''' roku zostal po raz pierwszy niejaki   Janek Juretschko w ksiegach wieczystych w miejscowosci GAMOW pod Raciborzem na Gornym Slasku wymieniony.  Podobno pochodzi on z Karpat na Ukrainie.
 
Dalsze zrodla historyczne z roku 1228 wymieniaja miejscowosc Rudolphi Villa, potem Rydultau i teraz Rydultowy jako miejsce pochodzenia przodkow rodziny Juretzko.
 
W czasie stuleci i za tym idacych zmian historycznych i politycznych na Slasku zostalo nazwisko Juretschko wielokrotnie zmienione.
 
Zachowane sa swiadectwa  ktore zmiany nazwiska Juretzko w ciagu stuleci dokumentuja.

{{Uncategorized|date=October 2007}}