==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Juxtaposition}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr}} {{term|juxtaposition|lang=fr}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|iuxta|iuxtā|near|lang=la}} from Latin {{term|iungo|iungō|to join|lang=la}} + French {{term|position||position|lang=fr}} from Latin {{term|pono|pōnō|to place|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{IPA|/ˌdʒʌk.stə.pəˈzɪʃ.ən/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/%dZVk.st@.p@"zIS.@n/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# The [[nearness]] of objects with no [[delimiter]].
## {{grammar}} An [[absence]] of [[link]]ing elements in a group of words that are [[list]]ed together.
##: Example: ''mother father'' instead of ''mother and father'' 
## {{mathematics}} An absence of [[operator]]s in an expression.
##: ''Using '''juxtaposition''' for multiplication saves space when writing longer expressions. <math>a \times b \!</math> collapses to <math>ab\!</math>.'' 
##* '''2007''', Lawrence Moss and Hans-Jörg Tiede, ''Applications of Modal Logic in Linguistics'', in: P. Blackburn et al (eds), ''Handbook of Modal Logic'', Elsevier, p. 1054
##*: A fundamental operation on strings is ''string concatenation'' which we will denote by '''juxtaposition'''.
# The extra [[emphasis]] given to a [[comparison]] when the contrasted objects are close together.
#: ''There was a poignant '''juxtaposition''' between the boys laughing in the street and the girl crying on the balcony above.''
## {{context|arts}} Two or more contrasting [[sound]]s, [[colour]]s, [[style]]s etc. placed together for stylistic effect.
##: ''The '''juxtaposition''' of the bright yellows on the dark background made the painting appear three dimensional.''
## {{rhetoric}} The close placement of two [[idea]]s to imply a link that may not exist.
##: ''Example: In 1965 the government was elected; in 1965 the economy took a dive.''

====Related terms====
* [[juxtapose]]
* [[juxtaposed]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|The nearness of objects with no delimiter.}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vierekkäin asettelu}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|grammar: absence of linking elements in a group of words that are listed together}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mathematics: absence of operators}}
* German: [[Juxtaposition]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|neas-suíomh|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extra emphasis given to a comparison}}
* German: [[Gegenüberstellung]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|sida vid sida}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|arts: contrasting sounds or colours}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|juxtapositie}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rhetoric: placement of ideas}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|hliðsetning|f}}, {{t-|is|hliðstaða|f}}
* Kurdish: [[berhev|berhevdan]], dan [[berhev]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[zestawienie]], [[porównanie]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To place in juxtaposition.

===References===
* DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.  ''Music.''

[[cs:juxtaposition]]
[[de:juxtaposition]]
[[et:juxtaposition]]
[[el:juxtaposition]]
[[fa:juxtaposition]]
[[fr:juxtaposition]]
[[ko:juxtaposition]]
[[io:juxtaposition]]
[[pl:juxtaposition]]
[[ru:juxtaposition]]
[[simple:juxtaposition]]
[[fi:juxtaposition]]
[[sv:juxtaposition]]
[[ta:juxtaposition]]
[[te:juxtaposition]]
[[tr:juxtaposition]]
[[vi:juxtaposition]]
[[zh:juxtaposition]]