==Japanese==

===Adnominal===
{{ja-pos|h|adnominal|kanji=彼の|rom=ano}}

# ''([[deictically]])'' [[that]] ... over there (far from the speaker and the addressee)
#: '''あの'''車は緑です。
#:: '''Ano''' kuruma wa midori desu.
#::: '''That''' car '''over there''' is green.
# ''([[anaphorically]])'' [[that]] ... we both know (both the speaker and the addressee know)

====See also====
{{Japanese demonstratives}}

====Related terms====
* [[この]] (kono) [[this]]
* [[その]] (sono) [[that]] (near listener)
* [[どの]] (dono) [[which]]
* [[あれ]] (are) [[that]] one over there (far from speaker and listener)
* [[あそこ]] (asoko) that direction over there

====Usage notes====
* あの is also used to refer to things and experiences that both the speaker and the listener have knowledge of. Compare the two following sentences,
*: '''あの'''本はやすいですか？
*:: Is that book (over there, which you and I can see) cheap?
*: '''その'''本はやすいですか？
*:: Is that book (I'm pointing to/near you/of yours) cheap?
*:: Is that book which you (have/saw/were talking about) cheap?
* The hiragana spelling ([[あの]]) is preferred to the kanji spelling ([[彼の]]), which is rarely used.

===Interjection===
{{ja-pos|h|interjection|rom=ano}}

# Similar to English [[er]], said when [[hesitating]] in speech.
# Similar to English [[uh]], space [[filler]] or [[pause]] during conversation.
#: '''あの'''…

====Related terms====
* [[ええと]], [[えーと]] (ēto) "Oh" or "Well"

====Usage notes====
The [[の]] ([[no]]) sound is often lengthened as in [[あのう]], [[あのぉ]], or [[あのー]] ([[anō]])

[[fr:あの]]
[[ko:あの]]
[[lo:あの]]
[[ja:あの]]
[[pl:あの]]
[[fi:あの]]
[[uk:あの]]
[[zh:あの]]