{{also|Appendix:Variations of "baba"}}
==English==

===Etymology===
As one of the first utterances many babies are able to say, {{term|baba}} (like {{term|mama}}, {{term|papa}}, and {{term|dada}}) has come to be used in many languages as a term for various family members:
* [[father]]: Arabic, Chinese, Greek, Marathi, Hindi, Bengali, Persian, Swahili, Turkish, Yoruba, Shona
* [[grandmother]]: many Slavic languages (such as Bulgarian, Russian and Polish), Yiddish, Japanese
* [[grandfather]]: Azerbaijani
* [[baby]]: Afrikaans, Sinhala
These terms often continue to be used by English speakers whose families came from one of these cultures. In some cases, they may become more widely used in localities that have been heavily influenced by an immigrant community. Some senses were extensions of one of these family terms in the original languages ("old woman" from "grandmother", "holy man" from "father"). The "cake" sense comes through {{etyl|fr|en}}, from {{etyl|pl|en}} {{term|baba||old woman|lang=pl}}. The Middle Eastern word {{term|baba}} (as in {{term|Ali Baba}}) is rather a term of endearment, and is ultimately derived from {{etyl|fa|en}} {{term|sc=fa-Arab|بابا|tr=bābā||father|lang=fa}} (from {{etyl|peo|en}} {{term||pāpa|lang=peo}}; as opposed to the Arabic words {{term|أَبُو|lang=ar}} and {{term|أَب|lang=ar}}, as well as the Turkish word {{term|ata|lang=tr}}; see also [[w:Papak|Papak]]) , and is linguistically related to the common European word {{term|papa}} and the word {{term|pope}}, having the same [[w:Indo-European languages|Indo-European origin]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A kind of [[sponge cake]] soaked in rum-flavoured [[syrup]].
# {{context|esp. among people of East European ancestry|lang=en}} A [[grandmother]].
#* '''1993''', Karen Dubinsky, ''Improper Advances: Rape and Heterosexual Conflict in Ontario, 1880-1929'', University of Chicago Press
#*: My '''baba''', Ksenia Dubinsky, tells me that my education makes her proud.
#* '''2001''', ''Brattleboro Remembers'', edited by the Brattleboro [Vermont] Historical Society, Arcadia Publishing
#*: I walked first for my grandmother, and my mother was sorry she had missed my first steps. My '''Baba''' was so proud, my mother later told me.
#* '''2004''', ''A Woman's Europe: True Stories'', edited by MaryBeth Bond
#*: As we made eye contact, I slowly began to wonder if she was '''Baba'''. I did not know my grandmother though I'd spoken with her several times on the telephone;
# An [[old woman]], especially a traditional old woman from an eastern European culture.
#* '''1914''', Russell Sage Foundation, ''Wage-earning Pittsburgh''
#*: Only two women, typical "'''babas'''" (peasant women) in the house from which I got my quilt and bedcloth, could be coaxed to pose;
#* '''1986''', Janice Kulyk Keefer, ''The Paris-Napoli Express''
#*: Laura hadn't known that anyone's mother could look like that, like the '''babas''' you sometimes saw downtown, bandaged in kerchiefs and aprons, sitting toothless in stockinged feet on small verandahs, peeling potatoes or beets or just shaking their heads and grimacing.
#* '''2003''', ''Food Tourism Around The World: Development, Management and Markets'', edited by Colin Michael Hall and Liz Sharples
#*: According to some, new volunteers are becoming more difficult to recruit and there are dark suggestions that 'money is being made on the backs of the '''babas'''', the dedicated, but ageing ladies who still spend countless hours of their time preparing foodstuffs for the occasion.
# {{context|esp. among people of Indian ancestry|lang=en}} A [[father]].
#* '''1849''', Edward Bulwer Lytton, ''The Caxtons''
#*: The first time I signed my exercise I wrote "Pisistratus Caxton" in my best round-hand. "And dey call your '''baba''' a scholar!" said the Doctor, contemptuously.
#* '''1998''', ''Mulan'' (movie)
#*: "The greatest gift and honor is having you for a daughter. I've missed you so." "I've missed you too, '''baba'''."
#* '''2002''', ''Bend It Like Beckham'' (movie)
#*: Okay. Okay. Fine, '''baba'''. Let's just do it before something else goes wrong.
#* '''2003''', ''House of Sand and Fog'' (movie)
#*: "Do not be disrespectful, son. Look at me." "'''Baba''', were you a Savaki?"
# {{context|Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism|lang=en}} A [[holy]] man, a [[spiritual]] [[leader]].
#* '''1995''', Hugh J.M. Johnston and Tara Singh Bains, ''The Four Quarters of the Night: The Life-Journey of an Emigrant Sikh''
#*: While I was in Port Alberni, three '''babas''' came to Canada to raise money ...
#* '''2004''', Andrew Robinson, ''Satyajit Ray: The Inner Eye: The Biography of a Master Film-Maker''
#*: But according to Ray, 'all the '''babas''' my uncle knew were genuine. None of them was exposed. They were fairly humble people, not show-offs like the Maharishi ...
#* '''2006''', Suraiya Faroqhi, ''Subjects Of The Sultan: Culture And Daily Life In The Ottoman Empire''
#*: Most '''babas''' had little contact with written culture and are not therefore named in books and treatises.
# {{context|India|dated|lang=en}} A [[baby]], [[child]].
#* '''1876''', Sir George Otto Trevelyan, ''The Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay''
#*: That is to say, if I do not take care, I shall go on calling my darling ''''Baba'''' till she is as old as her mamma, and has a dozen '''Babas''' of her own.
#* '''1904''', Rudyard Kipling, ''Traffics and Discoveries''
#*: For my child is dead--my '''baba''' is dead!
# In [[baby talk]], often used for a variety of words beginning with ''b'', such as ''[[bottle]]'' or ''[[blanket]]''.
#* '''2004''', ''House'' (TV, episode 1.14)
#*: Oh, it's storytime! Let me get my '''baba'''.

====Related terms====
* [[baba au rhum]]
* [[rhumbaba]], [[rum baba]]
* [[baba ganoush]]
* [[babushka]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|flavoured sponge cake}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|baba}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μπαμπάς|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|holy man, spiritual leader}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isä}}
* Oriya: {{t|or|ବାବା|sc=Orya}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|baba|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|బాబా}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|baba}}, {{t+|tr|peder}}, {{t|tr|pederler|p}}, {{t|tr|babalar|p}}, {{t+|tr|peder}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|abab}}
* {{l|en|abba}}, {{l|en|abba|ABBA}}

====External links====
* {{projectlink|wikipedia}}

[[Category:el:Cakes and pastries]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Noun===
{{af-noun|babas}}

# [[baby]]

====Related terms====
* [[babetjie]]

===Verb===
{{af-verb}}

# to [[treat]] with [[gentle]] [[care]], to [[coddle]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|ota|بابا|tr=baba|lang=sq}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[baba]|lang=sq}} {{a|Tosk}}
* {{IPA|[bɑba]|lang=sq}} {{a|Gheg}}

===Noun===
{{sq-noun|m||babi|baballarë}}

# [[father]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|sq|atë}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|sq|Baba Dimri}}

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=crh}}

===Noun===
{{crh-noun}}

# [[father]]
# [[dad]]

====Declension====
{{crh-latin-noun|nıñ|ğa|nı|da|dan}}

[[Category:crh:Family]]

----

==Czech==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|cs}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=f}}

# [[crone]], [[hag]]
# [[coward]], [[milksop]]

====Declension====
{{cs-decl-noun
|baba|baby|babě|babu|babo|babě|babou
|baby|bab|babám|baby|baby|babách|babami
}}

====Related terms====
{{rel3|{{l|cs|bába}}
|{{l|cs|babka}}
|{{l|cs|bábi}}
|{{l|cs|babí}}
|{{l|cs|babička}}
|{{l|cs|babizna}}}}

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
< {{etyl|pl|fi}} {{term|lang=pl|baba}}, probably via French

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|ba|ba|lang=fi}}

===Noun===
{{fi-noun}}

# {{l|en|baba}}, [[babka]] {{gloss|type of cake}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-kala|bab|||a}}

[[Category:fi:Desserts]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{borrowing|pl|baba|lang=fr}}, introduced in France in the eighteenth century at the court of {{w|Stanisław Leszczyński}}, king of Poland, duke of [[Lorraine]] and father-in-law of Louis XV.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ba.ba/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# {{l|en|baba}} {{gloss|type of cake}}
#* {{usex|[[baba au rhum]]|inline=1|lang=fr}}

===References===
* {{R:TLFi}}

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
A link of the term with the American {{term|bye-bye}} is possible but not certain.

===Interjection===
{{head|de|interjection}}

# {{label|de|informal|chiefly|_|in|_|Austria}} [[see you]], [[so long]]

====Usage notes====
* In Austria, especially East Austria, '''baba''' is the most commonly used informal term for saying "goodbye".

----

==Hiligaynon==

===Noun===
{{hil-noun|bába, bâbâ}}

# [[mouth]]

[[Category:hil:Body]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{hu-IPA}}
* {{audio|Hu-baba.ogg|Audio|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|ba|ba|lang=fi}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|pl=babák}}

# [[doll]]
# [[baby]] {{gloss|very young child}}

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-k-back|bab|á}}{{hu-pos-tok|babá}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|title=Compound words|{{l|hu|babapiskóta}}
|{{l|hu|babakocsi}}
|{{l|hu|kisbaba}}
|{{l|hu|próbababa}}
|{{l|hu|rongybaba}}}}

[[Category:hu:Family]]
[[Category:hu:Toys]]

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|ばば}}

----

==Lower Sorbian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|dsb}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈbaba]|lang=dsb}}

===Noun===
{{dsb-noun|f|dim=babka}}

# [[midwife]]
# [[old woman]]
# [[woman]]
# [[sponge cake]]

====Declension====
{{dsb-decl-noun-1|bab}}

{{catlangcode|dsb|People|Female|Foods|Occupations}}

----

==Luo==

===Noun===
{{head|luo|noun}}

# [[father]]

[[Category:luo:Family]]

----

==Malay==

===Etymology===
Voiced {{m|ms|bapa}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Johor-Selangor}} {{IPA|/babə/|lang=ms}}
* {{a|Riau-Lingga}} {{IPA|/baba/|lang=ms}}
* {{rhymes|abə|bə|ə|lang=ms}}
* {{rhymes|ə|lang=ms}}

===Noun===
{{ms-noun}}

# [[father]] {{gloss|male parent}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|ms|bapa}} ({{l|ms|bapanda}}, {{l|ms|bapai}}, {{l|ms|bapak}}, {{l|ms|bapang}}, {{l|ms|papa}})
* {{l|ms|ayah}} ({{l|ms|ayahanda}}, {{l|ms|aya}}, {{l|ms|yah}})
* {{l|ms|abah}} ({{l|ms|aba}}, {{l|ms|bah}})
* {{l|ms|rama}}

[[Category:ms:Family]]

----

==Polish==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|pl}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈbaba/|lang=pl}}

====Noun====
{{pl-noun|f}}

# [[crone]], [[hag]]
# {{label|pl|pejorative}} [[wife]]

=====Declension=====
{{pl-decl-noun-f}}

===Etymology 2===

====Noun====
{{pl-noun|m-pr}}

# {{l|en|baba}} (a holy man, a spiritual leader)

=====Declension=====
{{pl-decl-noun
|baba|babowie
|baby|babów
|babie|babom
|babę|babów
|babą|babami
|babie|babach
|babo|babowie
}}

===External links===
* {{R:PWN}}

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
From the hypothetical {{etyl|la|pt}} word {{m|la|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈba.ba/|lang=pt}}
* {{rhymes|aba|lang=pt}}

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|f}}

# [[drool]], [[dribble]]

====See also====
* {{l|pt|babar-se}}

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈba.ba]|lang=ro}}

===Noun===
{{head|ro|noun form}}

# {{definite of|babă|lang=ro}}

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|sh}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bâba/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|ba|ba|lang=fi}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=f|head=bȁba|r|баба|ба̏ба}}

# [[grandmother]]
# [[granny]], [[grandma]]
# {{label|sh|usually|pejorative}} [[old woman]]
# {{label|sh|pejorative}} [[female]] person

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|bȁba|babe
|babe|bȃbā
|babi|babama
|babu|babe
|babo|babe
|babi|babama
|babom|babama
}}

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|grandmother; grandma}} {{l|sh|báka}}, {{l|sh|nena}}

===References===
* {{R:sh:HJP|e1lvWg%3D%3D}}

[[Category:sh:Family]]

----

==Shona==

===Noun===
{{head|sn|noun}}

# [[father]]

[[Category:sn:Family]]

----

==Slovak==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|sk}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Noun===
{{sk-noun|f}}

# {{label|sk|colloquial}} [[old woman]]
# {{label|sk|colloquial}} [[midwife]]

===External links===
* {{R:SDK}}

----

==Slovene==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|sl}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=sl|/ˈbàːba/}}
* {{sl-tonal|bába}}

===Noun===
{{sl-noun|bába|f|bábe|bábe}}

# [[old woman]], [[hag]]

====Declension====
{{sl-decl-noun-f|báb}}

[[Category:sl:People]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From the hypothesized {{etyl|la|es}} {{m|la|*baba}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈbaβa/|lang=es}}

===Noun===
{{es-noun|f}}

# [[drool]], [[dribble]]
#: {{usex|La chacha lavaba, y mientras lavaba, la '''baba''' se le caía.|inline=1||t=The maid washed, and as she washed, she drooled.|lang=es}} (classroom example of b/v use)

====Related terms====
{{rel3|{{l|es|babear}}
|{{l|es|babero}}
|{{l|es|baboso}}
|{{l|es|babosa}}}}

===See also===
* {{l|es|cieno}}
* {{l|es|lama}}

----

==Swahili==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=sw}}

===Noun===
{{sw-noun|n}}

# [[father]] {{gloss|male parent}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|sw|mama}}

[[Category:sw:Family]]

----

==Tagalog==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=tl}}

===Adverb===
{{tl-adj}}

# [[low]]

===Noun===
{{tl-noun}}

# {{label|tl|anatomy}} [[chin]]

===Verb===
{{head|tl|verb}}

# to [[descend]]
# to [[piggyback]]

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
Likely from reduplication of ''ba'', from child speak. May be related to {{term|ata|lang=tr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɑˈbɑ/|lang=tr}}
* {{hyphenation|ba|ba|lang=fi}}

===Noun===
{{tr-noun|yı|lar}}

# [[father]]
# Saint (as in {{w|Gül Baba}})

====Declension====
{{tr-noun-v|a|poss=+|pred=+}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|{{l|tr|Âdem baba}}
|{{l|tr|ağababa}}
|{{l|tr|ana baba}}
|{{l|tr|Arap Baba}}
|{{l|tr|baba adam}}
|{{l|tr|baba bucağı}}
|{{l|tr|baba evi}}
|{{l|tr|baba hindi}}
|{{l|tr|baba mirası}}
|{{l|tr|baba nasihati}}
|{{l|tr|baba ocağı}}
|{{l|tr|Baba Oruç}}
|{{l|tr|baba tatlısı}}
|{{l|tr|baba yadigârı}}
|{{l|tr|baba yurdu}}
|{{l|tr|babaanne}}
|{{l|tr|babacan}}
|{{l|tr|babayiğit}}
|{{l|tr|ballıbaba}}
|{{l|tr|büyük baba}}
|{{l|tr|dedebaba}}
|{{l|tr|devlet baba}}
|{{l|tr|efendibaba}}
|{{l|tr|Gani Baba}}
|{{l|tr|Gül Baba}}
|{{l|tr|Haçkalı Baba}}
|{{l|tr|iskele babası}}
|{{l|tr|kayın baba}}
|{{l|tr|Mimi Baba}}
|{{l|tr|Noel baba}}
|{{l|tr|paşa baba}}
|{{l|tr|Şam Baba}}
|{{l|tr|Somuncu Baba}}
|{{l|tr|üvey baba}}}}

[[Category:tr:Family]]

----

==Upper Sorbian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sla-pro|hsb}} {{m|sla-pro|*baba}}.

===Noun===
{{head|hsb|noun|g=f}}

# [[old woman]], [[grandmother]]
# [[midwife]]
# [[dough]], [[pastry]]
# [[pelican]] {{qualifier|bird}}

[[af:baba]]
[[ar:baba]]
[[az:baba]]
[[bs:baba]]
[[ca:baba]]
[[cs:baba]]
[[da:baba]]
[[de:baba]]
[[et:baba]]
[[el:baba]]
[[es:baba]]
[[eu:baba]]
[[fa:baba]]
[[fr:baba]]
[[gl:baba]]
[[ko:baba]]
[[hy:baba]]
[[hi:baba]]
[[hr:baba]]
[[io:baba]]
[[id:baba]]
[[it:baba]]
[[kn:baba]]
[[csb:baba]]
[[sw:baba]]
[[ku:baba]]
[[lo:baba]]
[[lv:baba]]
[[lt:baba]]
[[ln:baba]]
[[hu:baba]]
[[mk:baba]]
[[mg:baba]]
[[mn:baba]]
[[my:baba]]
[[fj:baba]]
[[nl:baba]]
[[ja:baba]]
[[no:baba]]
[[uz:baba]]
[[pl:baba]]
[[pt:baba]]
[[ro:baba]]
[[ru:baba]]
[[sq:baba]]
[[so:baba]]
[[sh:baba]]
[[fi:baba]]
[[sv:baba]]
[[tl:baba]]
[[ta:baba]]
[[tt:baba]]
[[th:baba]]
[[tg:baba]]
[[chr:baba]]
[[tr:baba]]
[[tk:baba]]
[[uk:baba]]
[[ug:baba]]
[[vi:baba]]
[[zh:baba]]