{{cleanup}}
Baja Midnight
Baja Midnight is a term originally concocted in [Baja California, Mexico][http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baja_California]. It references that one is tired as if it were midnight. Even though there is some variation as to when Baja Midnight really begins at night it is usually considered to be between 8pm and 9pm local time. 
The earliest known use of Baja Midnight is from the southern cape of Baja California, as used by the [Windsurfers][http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windsurfing] and Fishermen from the United States. Its earliest use has been placed to 1990, Los Barrilles, BCS. Though it may have been in use prior to that time.
The terms is so common of those that experience the off the grid lifestyle that camping or living in a remote area so common to the Baja experience in the 70's and 80's, that each feels as if they concocted the term. The experience of the 70's and 80's can still exist in Baja, but is harder to find in the "Modern" Baja.
"Modern" Baja now supports technology as DSL, Digital Cellular Service. Digital Telephone Service, not to mention electricity and satellite television. At the time of the term Baja Midnight's first use, none of these technologies were around at the time. So a person living or camping in Baja was pretty much out of touch with devices that would reinforce ones awareness of the current time of day. As a result most people revolved around a circadian rhythm in their day. Most of the people familiar with the term Baja Midnight, were camping in Baja in the winter as Snow Birds, they would experience the winter Sun Rise- Set cycle of around 6am to 7pm, and as such it would be total darkness by 9pm, as it it were midnight.
Another factor in the "Midnightness" of the term, is that most people were also very active and as such were very tired as the evening approached what further enhances the feeling that it was late as midnight.