==English==

===Etymology===
{{unk|en}}, possibly from the early English drink of wine mixed with beer or water or other substances that was sold cheaply.<ref>''The Etymologicon: A Circular Stroll through the Hidden Connections of the English Language'' by Mark Forsyth</ref>

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈbɔːldə.dæʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|en|æʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[senseless|Senseless]] talk or writing; [[nonsense]].
#* '''1765''', {{w|Henry Brooke (writer)|Henry Brooke}}, ''The Fool of Quality'', London, for the author, Volume I, “<small>TO THE RIGHT RESPECTABLE MY</small> Ancient and well-beloved <small>PATRON THE PUBLIC</small>,” p.{{nbsp}}xix,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004836069.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Where, you cried in the name of Wonder, have you been able to gather together such an old fashioned Bundlement of Scientific '''Balderdash'''?
#* '''1844''', {{w|Edgar Allan Poe}}, “The Literary Life of Thingum Bob, Esq.” in ''{{w|Southern Literary Messenger}}'', Volume 10, December 1844, p.{{nbsp}}720,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100706269]</sup>
#*: [He] has the audacity to demand of us, for this twattle, a ‘speedy insertion and prompt pay.’ We neither insert nor purchase any stuff of the sort. There can be no doubt, however, that he would meet with a ready sale for all the '''balderdash''' he can scribble, at the office of either the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ the ‘Lollipop,’ or the ‘Goosetherumfoodle.’
#* '''1904''', {{w|Joseph Conrad}}, ''{{w|Nostromo}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}7,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/2021/2021-h/2021-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Charles Gould assumed that if the appearance of listening to deplorable '''balderdash''' must form part of the price he had to pay for being left unmolested, the obligation of uttering '''balderdash''' personally was by no means included in the bargain.
#* '''1992''' April 26, [[w:List of Jeeves and Wooster episodes|"Hot Off the Press"]] [[w:Jeeves and Wooster|''Jeeves and Wooster'']], Series 3, Episode 5:
#*: ''[[w:Gussie Fink-Nottle|A. Fink-Nottle]]:'' But it's absolute '''balderdash''', Bertie. I mean, listen to this: "Sure and [[begorrah]], I don't know what's after being the matter with you, Michael." I mean, what on earth is this "what's after being" stuff mean?<br>''[[w:Bertie Wooster|B.W. Wooster]]:'' My dear old Gussie, that is how people think Irish people talk.
# {{lb|en|archaic}} A worthless mixture, especially of [[liquor]]s.
#* {{RQ:Nashe Lenten Stuffe|pages=7–8|pageref=8|passage=[T]hey would no more liue vnder the yoke of the Sea, or haue their heads waſht with his bubbly ſpume or Barbers '''balderdaſh''', [...]}}
#* '''1637''', John Taylor, ''Drinke and Welcome'', London: Anne Griffin, “Beere,”<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A13442.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Indeede ''Beere'', by a Mixture of Wine, it enjoyes approbation amongst some few (that hardly understand wherefore) but then it is no longer Beere, but hath lost both Name and Nature, and is called '''''Balderdash''''' (an Utopian denomination) [...]
#* '''1783''', {{w|John O'Keeffe (writer)|John O’Keeffe}}, ''The Agreeable Surprise'', Newry: R. Stevenson, Act I, Scene 1, pp.{{nbsp}}6-7,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004776776.0001.000]</sup>
#*: [...] I took him to oblige a foolish old friend of mine, who intended him for Saint Omers; so I must keep him to draw good wine, and brew '''balderdash''' Latin.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[obscene|Obscene]] language or writing.
#* '''1776''', {{w|Samuel Jackson Pratt}}, ''Liberal Opinions, upon Animals, Man, and Providence'', London: G. Robinson & J. Bew, Volume 4, Chapter 72, p.{{nbsp}}46,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004897843.0001.004]</sup>
#*: Trugge, therefore, (who has a foul mouth of his own, when he pleases) talked '''balderdash''' to Mrs. Sudberry, through the key-hole, which she did not answer, for, indeed, she seems a civil spoken woman, truly [...]
#* '''1795''', {{w|Richard Cumberland (dramatist)|Richard Cumberland}}, ''Henry'', London: Charles Dilly, Volume I, Book 1, Chapter 6, p.{{nbsp}}42,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004875941.0001.001]</sup>
#*: With me your work will be easy and your life happy, with him you will be a drudge and the lacquey of a drudge [...]: from me you will hear none but pious and edifying conversation; from them nothing but '''balderdash''' and blasphemy in an outlandish dialect [...]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|bunk}}, {{l|en|drivel}}, {{l|en|piffle}}, {{l|en|poppycock}}, {{l|en|rubbish}}, {{l|en|twaddle}}
* see [[Thesaurus:nonsense]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|nonsense}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|глупост|alt=глупости|f-p|tr=glúposti}}, {{t+|bg|безсмислица|alt=безсмислици|f-p|tr=bezsmíslici}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|胡說八道|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|胡说八道|tr=húshuōbādào|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|cancy|m-p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gebazel|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soopa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bêtises|f-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gefasel|n}}
* Ido: {{t+check|io|stulto|alt=stult-ajo}} <!-- was "[[stulto|stult-ajo]]" - assumed inflected form or vocalised spelling; please verify if linking is acceptable. see [[User:Kephir/gadgets/xte#Translation_fixing]] -->
* Interlingue: {{t|ie|galimatias}}, {{t|ie|nonsense}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|たわごと|tr=tawagoto|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|농담|sc=Kore}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|besteira|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|чепуха́|f}}, {{t+|ru|бессмы́слица|f}}, {{t+|ru|вздор|m}}, {{t+|ru|галиматья́|f}}, {{t+|ru|белиберда́|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|balderdashes|balderdashing|balderdashed}}

# {{lb|en|archaic}} To [[mix]] or [[adulterate]].
#* '''1766''', {{w|Tobias Smollett}}, ''{{w|Travels through France and Italy}}'', London: R. Baldwin, 2nd edition, Volume I, Letter 19, p.{{nbsp}}309,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/travelsthroughfr01smol]</sup>
#*: That which is made by the peasants, both red and white, is generally genuine: but the wine-merchants of Nice brew and '''balderdash''', and even mix it with pigeons dung and quick-lime.

===References===
<references/>