{{also|-bam|BAM|ват}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bæm/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æm|lang=en}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# Representing a loud noise or heavy impact.
#: ''The wind knocked the tree over last night. '''Bam'''! It nearly scared me to death.''
# Representing a sudden or abrupt occurrence.
#: ''She said she dumped him. Now — '''bam'''! — they're back together.''

====Synonyms====
* [[bang]]
* [[blam]]
* [[pow]]
* [[wham]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Scotland|slang|lang=en}} [[ned]], [[bampot]].
# {{context|dated|lang=en}} An [[imposition]]; a [[cheat]]; a [[hoax]].
#: {{rfquotek|Garrick}}I’ll break a lamp, bully a con stable, bam a justice, or bilk a boxkeeper with any man in the liberties of Westminster.
David Garrick, The Plays of David Garrick: A Complete Collection of the Social Satires, French Adaptations, Pantomimes, Christmas and Musical Plays, Preludes, Interludes, and Burlesques, ed. Harry William Pedicord and Fredrick Louis Bergmann, vol. 1 (Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press, 1980), 93, http://www.questia.com/read/59320440.
#* Prof. Wilson
#*: To relieve the tedium he kept plying them with all manner of '''bams'''.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|bams|bamming|bammed|bammed}}

# {{context|1811|slang|archaic|lang=en}} To impose on (someone) by a falsehood; to [[cheat]].
#: {{rfquotek|Foote}}
# {{context|slang|archaic|lang=en}} To [[jeer]] or make fun of.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{abbreviation of|[[bare]]-[[arse]] [[minimum]]|lang=en}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ABM#English|ABM]], [[amb#English|amb]], [[B. M. A.#English|B. M. A.]], [[BMA#English|BMA]], [[MAb#English|MAb]], [[MBA#English|MBA]]

[[Category:English onomatopoeias]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{jbo-rafsi of|jbama}}

----

==Old Frisian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ofs|gem-pro|*baumaz}}.

===Noun===
{{ofs-noun|m|head=bām}}

# [[tree]]
# [[bench]]
# [[seat]]

====Declension====
{{ofs-decl-noun-a-m|bām}}

====Descendants====
* West Frisian: {{l|fy|beam}}
* North Frisian:
*: Föhr-Amrum & Mooring: {{l|frr|buum}}
*: Helgoland: {{l|frr|Booam}}
*: Sylt: {{l|frr|boom}}
* Saterland Frisian: {{l|stq|Boom}}

----

==Old Saxon==

===Noun===
{{osx-noun|g=m|head=bām}}

# {{alternative form of|lang=osx|bom}}

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[bench]]
# [[seat]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

[[br:bam]]
[[cs:bam]]
[[de:bam]]
[[eo:bam]]
[[fr:bam]]
[[ko:bam]]
[[hr:bam]]
[[id:bam]]
[[ku:bam]]
[[mg:bam]]
[[nl:bam]]
[[pl:bam]]
[[ru:bam]]
[[sq:bam]]
[[fi:bam]]
[[sv:bam]]
[[chr:bam]]
[[vi:bam]]
[[vo:bam]]
[[zh:bam]]