{{also|bắp|BAP}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bæp/|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
Originally Scottish English, of unknown origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A soft [[bread]] [[roll]], originally from [[Scotland]].
# {{lb|en|British|slang|mostly|in the plural}} A woman's [[breast]].
#* '''2014''', Kelly Creighton, ''The Bones of It''
#*: Mrs Dudley came bouncing back, hand swinging, big stain on her right '''bap''' like she'd been shot or Da had got at her in an alleyway.

===Etymology 2===
Imitative.

====Interjection====
{{en-intj}}

# The sound of a [[blow]] or [[slap]].
#* '''2006''', Ashaki Boelter. ''The Nok'' (page 55)
#*: Damian rolls Mr. McNutt over and beats the tar out of him with a series of punches, glasses on or not.<br>'''BAP! BAP!''' SMACK! '''BAP! BAP!''' "You and your men are going to get my family killed!" hollers Damian.
#* '''2014''', Rose McMills, ''Mountain Girl''
#*: Elizabeth continued into the living room and saw Velvet napping on the cool linoleum under the dining room table. She stopped to stroke her silky side and the puppy's tail went '''''bap, bap, bap''''' against the floor in greeting.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|bapp|ing}}

# To [[hit]].
#* '''2007''', Jean Johnson, ''The Wolf: A Novel of the Sons of Destiny'', Penguin ({{ISBN|9781440623431}})"
#*: “Actually, I like you growling when we&#39;re in our bedchamber. It, um . . . makes me think of all the things we do.” “Oh.” He processed that for a moment, then grinned down at her. “I&#39;ll take that as permission to growl at you all the more, then!” “Wolfer!” She '''bapped''' him again with the back of her fingers.
#* '''2016''', Nathan Birr, ''Shot List - The Douglas Files: Book Four'', ({{ISBN|9780996769174}}), page 385:
#*: She lightly bapped him on the head, then continued&nbsp;...

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|ABP|APB|Abp.|BPA|PBA|abp.}}

----

==Romansch==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|Rumantsch Grischun|Sursilvan|Sutsilvan|Surmiran}} {{l|rm|bab}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|rm|LL.|*babbus}}. Compare Sardinian {{m|sc|babbu}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[baːp]|lang=rm}}

===Noun===
{{rm-noun|m}}

# {{lb|rm|Puter|Vallader}} [[father]]

[[Category:Romansch palindromes]]
[[Category:rm:Family]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{head|vo|noun}}

# [[lowness]]