==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
{{blend|Baptist|Pentecostal}} 
Correct Histrology of 'TERM' <> BAPTICOSTAL
I WAS A LIVING WITNESS TO THE ORIGINATOR OF SAID TERM; MY Father, Reverend E.R. Worley. Below is how, when the term and it's meaning was invented and first used, (and) by whom was the term invented.

The Catholic Priest noted [Fr. Francis Mc Nutt] as the "FIRST" to experience the TERM: "Baptism in the Holy Spirit (Yahweh) with the evidence of "Speaking In Tongues or Golasilallia" took place IN the SAINT LOUIS ARCH DIOCESE. This took place in about 1967. During 1967, He soon sought out a respected Ordained Minister whom was well respected among many Pastors of different Denominations, the surrounding Community in Business & Law Enforcement as well; Whom was Pastoring an I.C.F.G. (Foursquare Gospel) Church at Faye & Zumbehl Road, Saint Charles, MO at the time. That Minister was/is my own Dad, the Reverend Earl Worley. (Also) the Sisters of Saint Mary's Convent located in Saint Charles MO who ran the Saint Joseph's Hospital also sought out Reverend Earl Worley, to receive historic New Testament Teaching concerning the "Baptism of the Holy Spirit" with the teaching on the various 'Gifting's'. This also took place in 1967. Articles were written with his photo and that of a Nun in the Newspapers, then published in Saint Charles, the Saint Charles Journal, & The Saint Charles banner News. [Both now long out of business.] Very soon after, several Monsignors such as Hickle, & Fr. Mike Henning, along with Nuns at the former "Old Mother's Home Convent" in O'Fallon, MO sought Rev. Earl Worley to begin weekly teachings for them as well. It was during those Early Days of what would later, (First) be called the Catholic Charismatic Renewal, and in later years,The Charismatic Renewal, during 1967: That during a private coversation with Fr. Francis Mac Nutt, Dad and her were discussing by what desciptive term they should call themselves. It was at that moment (just re-confirmed via telephone call to Rev. Earl Worley tonite, August 27th, 2012) That Dad exclaimed to Fr. Mac Nutt, saying: "I was raised Southern Baptist, but became a Pentecostal Minister in Foursquare! That means that 'I AM A BAPTICOSTAL!' " (&) Fr. Mac Nutt, that means 'YOU ARE A CATHOLICOSTAL' " Between 1967 & 2000, many hundreds of doors of opportunity opened wide for Dad to speak and teach in Catholic Charismatic Conferences, many Old Line & Main Line Denomination's Holy Spirit Conferences across the USA and then between 1973 and 2000, literally around the Globe; into Nations of Central & South America, Mid-East, Far East, Eastern Europe, Western Europe, the U.K., & Russia. On many of those trips he either took with him, or went with, a Southern Baptist Ordained Evangelist/Pastor by the name of Hobart Vann, whom also had experienced the New Testament 'Day of Pentecxost' Holy Spirit Baptism of Fire, with the evidence of various 'Gifting's' including 'Tongues'. Then, in the late 1960's, an Wisconsin Synod Lutheran Pastor also experienced the same events and Gifting's by the name: Rev. A.G. Dornfeld and his wife & daughter moved from Texas to Saint Charles, MO to a near-by Mobile Home Park to the Church where so many were coming for teaching at Faye & Zumbehl, the Saint Charles Foursquare Church; "Trio Trailor Park. soon after arriving A.G. & Dorothy Dornfeld & Daughter Beth, began attending the same Saint Charles Foursquare Church. It was A.G. Dornfeld who 'opened up Lutheran Ministers and Churches to: His book titled; "Have You Received the Holy Spirit?" As he traveled about the USA, he would simply lay hands upon Believers, similarly as noted by Saint Paul in his letter to Timothy the Bishop. All whom he touched in 'Jesus' Name' would begin praying a a New Testament un-learned to them, language. ie: TONGUES. On many of the trips to preach and teach in what was known as "Catholic Charismatic Renewal" & "Charismatic Renewal Movement" over time, there sat in augiences and stages, ministers whom la=ter became "Big Draws" like Kenneth Haggin, and others. Thus, as the years passed, Dad would be invited to guest teach at various "New Charismatic Seminaries" such as Rhema,  or Christ For the Nation's Institute. Dad regularly,(AND STILL DOES TO THIS HOUR) call himself a "BAPTICOSTAL" as he first invented the defining term/name for anyone coming from a Baptist background, having experienced what was recorded in the Book of Acts. "BAPTICOSTAL". And due to the fact that he regularly introduced himself all across the USA in conferences, churches, seminaries, AND across Eastern Europe including three times into Poland as one of the very first American Pastors authorized under Russian Rule, to preach the Gospel to all levels of Society > helping to open Poland, which ulptimately aided in allowing for Pope John Paul's visit there; Western Europe, the U.K.[Ireland, Wales, London, Scotland], Russia, Korea, Nepal, Thiland~ (even meeting a Dhalli Llhama), Egypt, Syria, Jordan,Guatamaula, Columbia, Mexico, as "I AM A BAPTICOSTAL" from that very first time when giving Fr. Francis Mac Nutt "Their definition names" in 1967: Dad's self invented and self given identity became one used across the "Baptist World". [Very Short background on Dad: Born in 1933, to WWI Hero C.J.Cleaburn Worley & Elizabeth Dickens/Randles Worley, he accepted Jesus as savior at age 10 at the "Twin Springs Baptist Church" in the Bootheel of MO. He then was raised in "First Baptist Church" Poplar Bluff, MO where his Mother was in charge of the Church Nursery. His Mother had Cousins whom were Pastors & a DOM in the Southern Baptist in the Missouri Baptist Convention. At age 19, Dad transferred his membership to "Second Baptist" Poplar Bluff, MO (he says) So he could play Baseball. He was "lead" into the "Young Church called "Foursquare Gospel" founded by the Female Evangelist and her Team of Male Deacons, reportedly having received early Ordination from a Baptist Church in Southern California; by his soon to be Bride, and in blood linage with various older U.K. Titles by way of her Father; Marilyn Anne Foster. Her Dad, the Grand Nephew of Honorable Lord William Wheatley, thus so named: Arthur Wheatley Foster, and her Mother Jewel Irene Coker of Arkansas Pentecostals,had a long career in the U.S. Veteran's Administration. Both Arthur Wheatley Foster, & Jewel Irene Coker/Foster were Rooseveltian Democrats, so: they joined the "NEW CHURCH" called Fouresquare. Dad, Rev. Earl Worley, graduated from LIFE Bible College,located behind Angelus Temple in 1957. By then, Steven (me) as a four year old lad, attended Seminary Classes with his Dad. In 1957, Earl & Marylin were sent by ICFG Leaders to the Kansas Town called Pratt, to plant a new "Foursquare Church" in a 100 year old former clapboard one room school house. Within two & a half years, Earl, Marylin, & Steven were transferred to another new "Foursquare Mission" physically located in the old, former African American 'Lincoln Grade School' on the hill overlooking the old Union Pacific Switchyards outside Neosho, MO. Their 'Parsonage' was the original 'Black School' built for freed slaves' children who lived in the one and two room shanty town after the Civil War, that sat across the old gravel road from the new "Foursquare Church of Neosho, MO". From there, on to the "Foursquare Church in North end Joplin, MO, one block from a Catholic Parish and Irving Elementary, that was destroyed by the recent Tornados hitting Joplin, MO. In 1966, Rev. Earl Worley, Wife Marylin, Steven & young Brother's Michael & Paul <. (Whom would later receive a U.S. Presidential Honor for his Law Enforcement Career, from then President Wm. Jefferson Clinton; were moved to Saint Charles, MO to plant another new "Foursquare Church". The first Service there, took place in a small concrete block building at Cunningham & Trindley, in July 1966. By April 1968 the First of two new Foursquare Church Facilities was built and completed in 90 days after ground breaking. THAT FIRST CHURCH FACILITY on Cunningham & Trindly, followed soon after in the newly built facility at Faye & Zumbehl Road, Saint Charles, out of 'Miami Stone', from Miami Oklahoma; SAW Catholic Priests and Nuns, Anglican & Lutheran Priests, Baptists, Evangelical Free, Brethren, and many other Denominations represented, filing into that facility to hear Rev. Earl Worley teach. When in 1976 they had out grown that first built Church at Faye & Zumbehl, they build a new, larger one next door to the new Catholic Elizabeth Anne Seaton Parish on Country Club Road. Monsignor Hickle, Monsignor Ed Greisedick, and other Catholic Priests made their way to the newer Church on Country Club to be taught by Rev. Earl Worley. In 1980, when the major Charismatic Renewal Conference was held at the main Arena in Kansas City, MO; then yet living, Cardinal Seunen was in attendence. His 'Holiness' Tent' was constructed. (Dad) and 123 other Ministers long considered the 'Main Instruments of GOD, in the Renewal' were asked to guest with Cardinal Seunen. THUS: A short but fairly in depth history of 'HOW THE TERM "BAPTICOSTAL" came into being. When it came into Being. (And)HISTORY of Whom it was that invented the term to indentify himself and his own ministry.  To Jump ahead into the 21st Century: In April 2005, the Son of the REAL ORIGINATOR of "BAPTICOSTAL"; Reverend Steven Robinson-Worley, & his Wife Ann Marie, received a renewed open doorway of ministry into the Roman Catholic Church's Charismatic Renewal Movement. They met Fr. Jack Ghio of Saint Peter Catholic Church. Then, soon after a Priest whom says part of the reason he entered Catholic Priesthood was because of the affect one Reverend Earl Worley had on him as a youth, when hearing him teach at a Catholic Conference; Fr. Steven Robeson. THey soon attended Mass regularly at Saint Peter Church. Steven & Ann then met and received great honor from one Monmsignor Ed Greisedick, whom 40 years before had been taught by Steven's Father on 'Holy Spirit Gifting's'; And theiur friendship continues. In  2007, in honor of their proven testimony, ministry, and proven history of Steven's Father; then Arch Biship (NOW CARDINAL) Burke authorized the 11 year old marriage of Steven & Ann Marie being fully registered as a Roman Catholic Sacramental Marriage, (&) PRIOR, On EASTER EVE, 2006, In honor of that same proven ministry, 'Classic Pentecostal', and testimony, rthen Arch Bishop Burke fully authorized Steven being decreed with the status of (DUELY) Communicate Catholic ~ Ordained Classic Pentecostal. As witness to the proven work of Yahweh ~ the Holy Spirit, in partial fulfillment of what is called; "the Prophetic Prayer of Jesus", found recorded in Saint John's Gospel, Chapter 17, verses 17 - 26. That a generation would rise in the Earth whom would fully comprehend that any/all whom call upon the name, 'JESUS' in faith, ARE FULLY JOINED TOGETHER SPIRITUALLY BY THE HOLY SPIRIT, INTO ONE IDENTIFIED LIVING ORGANISM, "the Church" with JESUS as the 'HEAD OF THAT CHURCH'.It was declared by then Saint Louis Arch Diocesean Auxillary Bishop Herman,(whom had celebrated Healing Masses in the Early Renewal along side Rev. Earl Worley, Steven's Dad): whom said (quoting from memory); "Steven, Arch Bishop Burke has set a new precedent, never before done in the history of the Catholic Church, in that he has decreed a 'Classic Pentecostal Minister' as a full Communicate Catholic at the same time!" In February 2007, held at the former Saint Kevin's Catholic Church, Saint Ann, MO, there was celebrated in Holy Mass, with Auxillary Bishop Herman Officiating & Monsignor Ed Greisedick assisting; had Pentecostal Reverend [yet Communicate Catholic] Steven Robinson-Worley come to the Holy of Holies to speak from the Amboe giving a brief history and Biblical Enjuction concerning the Holy Spirit's great purpose of Uniting All Believers as One in spirit..... In Honor of how it was HIS FATHER, the Reverend Earl Worley whom 40 years prior was THE FIRST Classic Pentecostal Ordained Minister (& Foursquare)to help teach Fr. Francis Mac Nutt on the Holy Spirit, help spread those two Early Movements, (&) INVENTED THE TERM IDENTIFICATION; 'BAPTICOSTAL' when he said to his friend, Francis: "I AM A BAPTICOSTAL" back in 1967! The TRUTH about the subject is so much wilder than the part previously written. (AND) By the way! Dad's friend & Ordained Baptist Evangelist Hobart Vann, whom also had experienced the 'Acts Two Baptism with Tongues following'; made contact with various of the SBC TEAM whom were wrngling with what became known as the Baptist Faith & Message, 2000. Hobart (now deceased nearly one year, living into his 80's) told me personally, that he had contacted various ones arguing for inclusion of teaching on Holy Spirit Baptism with Gifting's including the various "Gifts of Tongues".

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of, relating to, or characteristic of the blending of Baptist and charismatic theologies, especially acceptance of the [[charismatic]] [[gifts]].
# Of, relating to, or characteristic of [[Baptist]] [[worship]] service similar to that of charismatic churches, especially in the use of high-tempo [[contemporary]] [[Christian]] music, raising of hands, and [[spontaneous]] shouts. 
#: ''"We tend to be a little '''Bapticostal''' where I go.''--Mike Huckabee, December 17, 2007.