==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|băch}}, {{IPA|/bæt͡ʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-batch.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ætʃ|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|bache}}, {{m|enm|bæcche}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|bæċe}}, {{m|ang|beċe||brook, stream}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*bakiz||brook}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*bʰog-||flowing water}}. More at {{l|en|beach}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|en|baiche}} {{qualifier|obsolete|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|batches}}

# A [[bank]]; a [[sandbank]].
# A [[field]] or [[patch]] of ground lying near a stream; the [[dale]] in which a stream flows.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|bache}}, {{m|enm|bacche}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|*bæċe}}, {{m|ang|*bæċċe||baking; something baked}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*bakiz||baking}}, related to {{m|ang|bacan||to bake}}. Compare German {{m|de|Gebäck|}}, Dutch {{m|nl|gebak|}} and {{m|nl|baksel|}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} The process of [[baking]].
#* '''1551''', T. Wilson, ''Logike 42 b'':
#*: Except the baker doe his part also in the '''batch'''. 
# The quantity of [[bread]] or other baked goods [[bake]]d at one time.
#: ''We made a '''batch''' of cookies to take to the party.''
# A quantity of anything produced at one operation.
#: ''We poured a bucket of water in at the top, and the ice-maker dispensed a '''batch''' of ice-cubes at the bottom.''
# A [[group]] or [[collection]] of things of the [[same]] kind, such as a batch of letters or the next batch of business.
#* Lady M. W. Montagu
#*: a new '''batch''' of Lords
# {{lb|en|computing}} A set of [[data]] to be processed with one [[execute|execution]] of a program.
#: ''The system throttled itself to '''batches''' of 50 requests at a time to keep the thread count under control.''
# {{lb|en|UK|dialect|Midlands}} A [[bread roll]].
# {{lb|en|Philippines}} A [[graduating]] class.
#: ''She was the valedictorian of '''Batch''' '73.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|quantity of baked goods}} {{l|en|recipe}}
* {{sense|anything produced in one operation}} {{l|en|pressing}}, {{l|en|run}}, {{l|en|lot}}
* {{sense|group of things of the same kind}} {{l|en|group}}, {{l|en|lot}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|quantity of baked goods made at one time}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|фурна}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lot|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erä}}, {{t+|fi|satsi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fournée|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|infornata|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|ladning|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|fornada|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|па́ртия|f}}, {{t+|ru|по́рция|f}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|hornada|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bak|n}}, {{t+|sv|sats|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|quantity of anything produced in one operation}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|批次|tr=pīcì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|批|tr=pī|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|批量|tr=pīliàng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lot|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lot|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Partie|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lotto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|束|tr=たば, taba|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|群れ|tr=むれ, mure|sc=Jpan}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wsad}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lote}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|па́ртия|f}}, {{t+|ru|се́рия|f}}, {{t+|ru|паке́т|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lote|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sats|c}}, {{t+|sv|batch}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|group or collection of things of the same kind}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|партида}}, {{t+|bg|порция}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|joukko}}, {{t+|fi|sarja}}, {{t|fi|nippu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|jeu|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|serie|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|șarjă|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|па́ртия|f}}, {{t+|ru|паке́т|m}}, {{t+|ru|по́рция|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lote|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sats|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|程序組|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|程序组|tr=chéngxù zǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|erä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|batch|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|バッチ|tr=batchi|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|일괄|n}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|batch}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|بچ|tr=bač|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|stos|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|паке́т|m}}, {{t|ru|бэтч|m}}, {{t|ru|бэч|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lote|m}}, [[procesamiento]] por lotes
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|batches|batching|batched}}

# To [[aggregate]] things together into a batch.
#: ''The contractor '''batched''' the purchase orders for the entire month into one statement.''
# {{lb|en|computing}} To handle a set of input data or requests as a [[batch process]].
#: ''The purchase requests for the day were stored in a queue and '''batched''' for printing the next morning.''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of a process, operating for a defined set of conditions, and then halting.
#: ''The plant had two '''batch''' assembly lines for packaging, as well as a continuous feed production line.

=====Antonyms=====
* {{l|en|continuous}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|batch mode}}
* {{l|en|batch process}}

====References====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* '''1996,''' T.F. Hoad, ''The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Etymology'', Oxford University Press, ISBN 0192830988

===Etymology 3===
from an abbreviation of the pronunciation of {{m|en|bachelor||unmarried adult male}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{lb|en|informal}} To live as a bachelor temporarily, of a married man or someone virtually married.
#: ''I am '''batching''' next week when my wife visits her sister.''

=====Usage notes=====
* Often with {{m|en|it}}: "I usually '''''batch''' it'' three nights a week when she calls on her out-of-town accounts."

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# {{lb|sv|computing|slang}} a [[#English|batch]] (of commands, processed as a group)

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-er}}
{{sv-infl-noun-c-ar}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|sv|kommandofil}}
* {{l|sv|körning}}
* {{l|sv|program}}
* {{l|sv|sats}}

[[ar:batch]]
[[de:batch]]
[[et:batch]]
[[el:batch]]
[[es:batch]]
[[fa:batch]]
[[fr:batch]]
[[gl:batch]]
[[ko:batch]]
[[hy:batch]]
[[io:batch]]
[[it:batch]]
[[kn:batch]]
[[ku:batch]]
[[lt:batch]]
[[hu:batch]]
[[mg:batch]]
[[ml:batch]]
[[my:batch]]
[[nl:batch]]
[[pl:batch]]
[[pt:batch]]
[[ru:batch]]
[[sa:batch]]
[[simple:batch]]
[[sh:batch]]
[[fi:batch]]
[[sv:batch]]
[[ta:batch]]
[[te:batch]]
[[chr:batch]]
[[tr:batch]]
[[uk:batch]]
[[vi:batch]]
[[wa:batch]]
[[zh:batch]]