==English==
{{was wotd|2018|November|24}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|en|fr|battue}}, {{glossary|feminine}} {{glossary|singular}} {{glossary|past}} {{glossary|participle}} of {{m|fr|battre||to beat; to defeat}}, from {{der|en|LL.|battere}}, {{der|en|la|battuere}},<ref>{{R:Lexico}}</ref> {{glossary|present}} {{glossary|active}} {{glossary|infinitive}} of {{m|la|battō}}, a variant of {{m|la|battuō||to beat; to fight}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*bʰuH-|*bʰew-|to hit, strike}}. {{doublet|en|battuta}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|en|/bəˈt(j)uː/|/bæ-/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-battue.wav |Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|en|/bæˈtu/}}
* {{rhymes|en|uː|s=2}} {{qualifier|RP}}
* {{hyphenation|en|bat|tue}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# {{lb|en|uncountable|hunting|often|attributively}} A form of [[hunting#Noun|hunting]] in which [[game#Noun|game]] is [[force#Verb|forced]] into the [[open#Noun|open]] by the [[beating#Noun|beating]] of [[stick#Noun|sticks]] on [[bush]]es, etc. {{defdate|from early 19th c.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=“Marksman” [pseudonym]|chapter=Finishing Lessons|title=The Dead Shot; or, Sportsman’s Complete Guide:{{nb...|Being a Treatise on the Use of the Gun, with Rudimentary and Finishing Lessons in the Art of Shooting Game of All Kinds: Pigeon-shooting, Dog-breaking, etc.}}|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher=W. A. Townsend, publisher|year=1863|pages=203 and 204|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=GoQCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA203|oclc=213789542|passage=&#91;[https://books.google.com/books?id=GoQCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA203 page 203]&#93; In '''battue''', whenever a hen rises, the signal "ware hen!" is called out by the sportsman or beater who is nearest it: meaning thereby "beware of the hen;" or, literally, "do not shoot the hen pheasant." In most places where game is very strictly preserved, and the rules of sporting firmly adhered to, a fine is imposed on any one who kills a hen pheasant in '''battue'''. {{...}} &#91;[https://books.google.com/books?id=GoQCAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA204 page 204]&#93; No dogs need be used in '''battue''', but beaters only: and it should be remembered that pheasants always run to the end or side of the cover before taking flight, unless they are much pressed: consequently the best sport always comes at the extreme end of the wood.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Sevyan Vainshtein|authorlink=Sev’yan I. Vainshtein|author2=Michael Colenso, transl.|chapter=Appropriative Economic Forms among the Tuvinian Nomads in the Nineteenth and Early Twentieth Centuries|editor={{w|Caroline Humphrey}}|title=Nomads of South Siberia: The Pastoral Economies of Tuva|series=Cambridge Studies in Social Anthropology|seriesvolume=25|location=Cambridge|publisher={{w|Cambridge University Press}}|year=1980|page=178|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=tas8AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA178|isbn=978-0-521-22089-7|passage=In the southern territories of Tuva saiga antelopes were hunted successfully by the '''battue''' method, using horse as chasers, and log pens constructed before the hunt. Several dozen animals could be caught in one hunt by this method.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Emma Griffin|chapter=A New Era Dawns|title=Blood Sport: Hunting in  Britain since 1066|location=New Haven, Conn.; London|publisher={{w|Yale University Press}}|year=2007|page=120|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=Tc7U15Ab8DwC&pg=PA120|isbn=978-0-300-11628-1|passage=The spread of '''battue''' hunting was limited before the 1840s, and most sporting handbooks continued to instruct their readers in the arts of walking up rather than '''battue''' hunting. {{...}} Yet the gradual spread of the '''battue''' was unmistakable, much to the consternation of more traditionally minded sportsmen. Traditionalists took exception to the extensive slaughter that the grand '''battue''' hunt might involve and railed against the introduction of this 'abominable Gallic System'.}}
# {{lb|en|countable|hunting}} A [[hunt#Noun|hunt]] [[perform]]ed in this manner.
#* {{quote-journal|en|title=Diary for the Month of April|magazine={{w|The London Magazine}}|location=London|publisher=Published by Hunt and Clarke,{{nb...|No. 4, York Street, Covent Garden.}}|date=1 May 1827|volume=VIII (New Series)|page=66|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=IvARAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA66|oclc=7208306|passage=The '''battues''' have nothing whatever to do with the poaching, and once sufficiently grand '''battue''' would put an end to poaching altogether, by destroying all the game. The evil of which the chancellor should have spoken, is the excessive game preserving which allows of '''battues''', or great massacres. The game is preserved till it swarms, and then it is slaughtered in swarms; but it is clearly not the massacre which provokes the poaching, but the temptation of the extraordinary abundance of game.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Sir [[w:Sir Harry Verney, 2nd Baronet|Harry Verney]], witness|chapter=Minutes of Evidence Taken before the Select Committee on the Game Laws|title=Report from the Select Committee on the Game Laws|volume_plain=part I (Session 1845)|location=[London|publisher=Ordered, by the [[w:House of Commons of the United Kingdom|House of Commons [of the United Kingdom]]], to be Printed]|date=21 April 1845|year_published=6 July 1846|section=paragraph 1202|page=59|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=zGZJAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA59|oclc=941768120|passage=What, in your comprehension, is a '''battue'''?—As far as I understand a '''battue''', it is where the woods are beaten; where the game is beaten out by men instead of dogs.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Duke of Grafton &#91;{{w|Augustus FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton}}&#93;, witness|chapter=Minutes of Evidence Taken before the Select Committee on the Game Laws|title=Report from the Select Committee on the Game Laws|volume_plain=part I (Session 1845)|location=[London|publisher=Ordered, by the [[w:House of Commons of the United Kingdom|House of Commons [of the United Kingdom]]], to be Printed]|date=9 July 1845|year_published=6 July 1846|section=paragraphs 15078, 15081, and 15083|page=777|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=zGZJAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA777|oclc=941768120|passage=In the collection of game for a '''battue''', are the Committee to understand that game is driven into the covers from the various parts of the manor?—No; it is reared and bred in the covers, generally, I believe. {{...}} You object to a '''battue''' where 800 or 900 head of game are killed?—Yes. {{...}} I should prefer the '''battue''' system being done away entirely.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=[Robert Smith Surtees]|authorlink=Robert Smith Surtees|chapter=Shooting and Slaughtering|title=“Plain or Ringlets?”|location=London|publisher=[[w:Bradbury and Evans|Bradbury, Agnew, & Co.]],{{nb...|8, 9, 10, Bouverie St}}|year=1860|page=193|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=9d8NAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA193|oclc=361359|passage=[T]he Duke having duly conned over the eligible parties to ask, it was finally arranged that a '''Battue''' should inaugurate the Prince's visit. It required a little tact and consideration to get it up properly, for some people like '''battues''' while others don't.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|title=The Cost of a Battue|editor={{w|Charles Dickens}}|magazine=[[w:All the Year Round|All the Year Round. A Weekly Journal. [...] With which is Incorporated Household Words]]|location=London|publisher=No. 26, Wellington Street [printed by C. Whiting,{{nb...|Beaufort House, Strand.}}]|date=1 September 1860|volume=III|issue=71|page=485|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=xUcJAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA485|column=2|oclc=781591950|passage=A '''battue''' is a contrivance for killing the largest quantity of game in the smallest time, with the least amount of trouble, by a small select party. {{...}} The peculiar charm of a '''battue''' appears to lie, first, in its enormous cost, which places it out of the reach of men of moderate means; next, in the arrangements for wholesale slaughter by people who, being neither good shots nor good walkers, are unable to take advantage of the working of well-trained dogs.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=Karin Dirke|chapter=Changing Narratives of Human: Large Carnivore Encounters in Nineteenth-century Sweden|editors=Tuomas Räsänen and Taina Syräjmaa|title=Shared Lives of Humand and Animals: Animal Agency in the Global North|location=Abingdon, Oxon.; New York, N.Y.|publisher={{w|Routledge}}|year=2017|page=167|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=tjAlDwAAQBAJ&pg=PA167|isbn=978-0-415-41925-3|passage=The admiration of the bear made the hunt appear as a royal performance with the bear as a revered participant. During the nineteenth century '''battues''' for large carnivores were quite frequently narrated as instructive stories about the organization of the hunt.}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|battu}}
* {{l|en|batture}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|form of hunting}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|sürək}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|klopjacht|m|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajometsästys}}, {{t|fi|ajopyynti}}
* French: {{t+|fr|battue|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|თავდასხმა}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|nagonka|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|облава|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|hunt performed in this manner}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t|az|sürək}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ajojahti}}, {{t+|fi|ajometsästys}}, {{t|fi|ajopyynti}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|drev|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references />

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From Portuguese ''[[batuda]]'' or Italian ''[[battuta]]'' ("a beating"). See Latin ''[[battuo]]'' ("to beat").

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|fr|LL-Q150 (fra)-WikiLucas00-battue.wav|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#English|battue]]; the beating of bushes to force out the game
# [[hunt]], [[search]]
#: {{uxi|fr|La police a organisé des battues pour retrouver l'enfant disparu.}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|en|battue|bor=1}}

===Participle===
{{head|fr|past participle form}}

# {{feminine singular past participle of|fr|battre|nocat=1}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|fr|ébattu}}

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|battue}}

# {{inflection of|la|battuō||2|s|pres|act|imp}}