{{also|bc|BC|b.c.|B.C.|B. C.|b/c}}
==English==

===Initialism===
{{wikipedia|Before Christ}}
{{head|en|initialism|head=BC or B.C.}}

# [[before|Before]] [[Christ]]. Often written in [[small caps]].
#: ''The Han Dynasty ruled China from 206 '''<small>BC</small>''' to <small>AD</small> 220.''

====Usage notes====
* The [[w:Chicago Manual of Style|Chicago Manual of Style]] as well as most house styles require placing the '''AD''' before the number of the year and '''BC''' after, although in casual use either abbreviation can be found in either place.
* Some use [[BCE]], for "Before the Common Era", which is more secular in nature, to avoid potential Christian bias.
* "B.C." is the customary abbreviation of British Columbia as used in [[case citation]]s; see e.g. ''The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation, Nineteenth Edition'' (2010), "Geographical Terms: Australian states and Canadian provinces and territories", Table T10.2, page 438.

====Synonyms====
* [[b.c.]], [[BCE]]

====Antonyms====
* [[a.d.]], [[AD]], [[A.D.]] ([[anno Domini]], [[Anno Domini]], [[in the year of our Lord]]); [[CE]] ([[Christian Era]], [[Common Era]], [[Current Era]])

====Translations====
{{trans-top|before Christ}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|قبل الميلاد|tr=Qabla Lmilad|alt=ق. م. )قبل الميلاد)|sc=Arab}} {{qualifier|formally}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|edC}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|aC}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|公元前|tr=gung1 jyun4 cin4|sc=Hani}}, {{t|yue|主前|tr=zyu2 cin4|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|Christian}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|公元前|tr=gōngyuánqián|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|主前|tr=zhǔqián|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|Christian}}
* Dutch: [[v. Chr.]] ([[voor Christus]])
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|a.K.}}
* Finnish: [[eKr.]] (''ennen Kristusta'')
* French: {{t+|fr|av. J.-C.}}, [[av. JC]] (''avant Jésus-Christ'')
* German: {{t+|de|v. Chr.}} ({{t|de|vor Christus}}, {{t|de|vor Christo}})
* Greek: {{t+|el|π.Χ.}} ({{t|el|προ Χριστού}})
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|לפנה״ס}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ई॰पू॰|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|ई.पू.|sc=Deva}} ({{t|hi|ईसा पूर्व}})
* Hungarian: [[Kr. e.]] (''[[Krisztus előtt]]'')
* Icelandic: [[f.Kr.]] ([[fyrir Krist]])
* Italian: [[a.C.]] (''[[avanti Cristo]]'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|紀元前|tr=きげんぜん, kigenzen}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|a. Chr. n.}}, [[a. C. n.]] (''[[ante Christum natum]]'')
* Macedonian: [[п.н.е.]] (''[[пред нашата ера]]'')
* Malay: [[SM]] (''[[Sebelum Masihi]]'')
* Navajo: {{t|nv|Doodaatsaahii tʼah bítséedi}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|kaɓla wakati rilio nuwo|tr=kabla wakati rilio nuwo}}
* Polish: [[p.n.e.]] (''[[przed naszą erą]]'')
* Portuguese: [[AC]] (''[[antes de Cristo]]'')
* Romanian: {{t|ro|î.Hr}} ({{t|ro|înainte de Hristos}})
* Russian: {{t|ru|до на́шей э́ры}} (''abbr.'' {{t|ru|до н. э.}}), {{t|ru|до Рождества́ Христо́ва}} (''abbr.'' {{t|ru|до Р. Хр.}})
* Spanish: {{t|es|a. de J.C.}}, {{t|es|antes de Jesucristo}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|f.Kr}} (''före Kristus'')
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|U.K.}} {{qualifier|Una kay Kristo}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|MÖ}} ({{t+|tr|milattan önce}})
{{trans-bottom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}
# [[British Columbia]], a Canadian province.
# [[Baja California]], a Mexican state.

====Derived terms====
* [[BCer]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}
# [[birth control]]
# {{label|en|chemistry}} {{initialism of|benzalkonium chloride|lang=en}}
# {{label|en|US|navy}} [[battlecruiser]], a type of warship.
# {{label|en|computer science}} {{initialism of|backward compatibility|lang=en}}

===Anagrams===
* [[CB#English|CB]]

[[Category:English retronyms]]
[[Category:en:Calendar terms]]

[[ca:BC]]
[[cs:BC]]
[[de:BC]]
[[et:BC]]
[[el:BC]]
[[eo:BC]]
[[fr:BC]]
[[ko:BC]]
[[ka:BC]]
[[la:BC]]
[[lt:BC]]
[[hu:BC]]
[[my:BC]]
[[no:BC]]
[[pl:BC]]
[[pt:BC]]
[[ru:BC]]
[[simple:BC]]
[[sk:BC]]
[[fi:BC]]
[[ta:BC]]
[[zh:BC]]