{{also|Appendix:Variations of "be"}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|be-|lang=ang}}. For the majority of [[native speaker]]s the prefix ''be-'' is no longer productive; a possible exception to this is presented by the word {{term|besmitten}} and archaic usage.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɪ/|/bi/}}, {{SAMPA|/bI/|/bi/}}

===Prefix===
{{infl|en|prefix}}

# As an [[intensifier]]; i.e. [[thoroughly]], [[excessively]]
# [[on|On]], [[around]], [[over]] or in [[contact]] with something.
# [[verb|Verbs]] derived from [[nouns]] (e.g. befriend, behead, benight), or from [[adjectives]] (e.g. bedim, bewet).

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from be-}}
* [[becalm]]
* [[bedazzle]]
* [[bedew]]
* [[bedevil]]
* [[bedim]]
* [[bedrabble]]
* [[bedraggle]]
* [[befall]]
* [[befit]]
* [[befog]]
* [[befool]]
* [[befoul]]
* [[befriend]]
* [[befuddle]]
* [[beget]]
* [[begrime]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[begrudge]]
* [[beguile]]
* [[behave]]
* [[behead]]
* [[behold]]
* [[behoove]] (US and Canada)
* [[behove]] (Commonwealth et al)
* [[belabor]] (US)
* [[belabour]] (Canada, Commonwealth et al)
* [[belay]]
* [[belie]]
* [[belittle]]
* [[bemire]]
* [[bemoan]]
* [[bemud]]
* [[bemuse]]
* [[benight]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[benumb]]
* [[bequeath]]
* [[berate]]
* [[bereave]]
* [[beribbon]]
* [[beseech]]
* [[beset]]
* [[beslobber]]
* [[besmear]]
* [[besmirch]]
* [[besot]]
* [[bespatter]]
* [[bespeak]]
* [[bespeckle]]
* [[bespread]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[besprinkle]]
* [[bestead]]
* [[bestir]]
* [[bestow]]
* [[bestrew]]
* [[bestride]]
* [[betide]]
* [[betoken]]
* [[betray]]
* [[betroth]]
* [[bewail]]
* [[beweep]]
* [[bewet]]
* [[bewilder]]
* [[bewitch]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:English intensifiers]]
[[Category:English prefixes|be-]]

----

==Dutch==

===Prefix===
'''be-'''  ''Non-separable''

# Used to indicate that a verb is acting on a direct object (making the verb [[transitive]]).

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Derived terms}}
* [[bebossen]]
* [[bedenken]]
* [[bedrukken]]
* [[bedwingen]]
* [[begrenzen]]
* [[begrijpen]]
* [[begroeien]]
* [[begroeten]]
* [[behalen]]
* [[behandelen]]
* [[beheren]]
* [[beheersen]]
* [[behouden]]
* [[beklimmen]]
* [[bekronen]]
* [[belasten]]
* [[belegeren]]
* [[beleggen]]
* [[belonen]]
* [[bemannen]]
* [[beoefenen]]
* [[bepalen]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[berechten]]
* [[berekenen]]
* [[beroven]]
* [[berusten]]
* [[beschadigen]]
* [[beschilderen]]
* [[beschouwen]]
* [[beschrijven]]
* [[beschuldigen]]
* [[besluiten]]
* [[besparen]]
* [[bestraffen]]
* [[betekenen]]
* [[betreden]]
* [[betwijfelen]]
* [[bevolken]]
* [[bewerken]]
* [[bewijzen]]
* [[bezetten]]
* [[bezichtigen]]
* [[bezitten]]
* [[bezoeken]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:Dutch prefixes]]

----

==German==

===Prefix===
{{de-pref}}

# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies working on something or change of state.
# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies touching the object.
# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies discussing or mentioning the object.

====Usage notes====
* The verb with this prefix takes very often a ''direct'' object (i.e., an object in the [[accusative case]]).

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* [[bearbeiteten]]
* [[bedauern]]
* [[bedenken]]
* [[bedeuten]]
* [[bedienen]]
* [[bedürfen]]
* [[befehlen]]
* [[befördern]]
* [[befreien]]
* [[befriedigen]]
* [[befürchten]]
* [[begehren]]
* [[begegnen]]
* [[begeistern]]
* [[begleiten]]
* [[begraben]]
* [[begreifen]]
* [[begrenzen]]
* [[behalten]]
* [[behandeln]]
* [[behaupten]]
* [[beherrschen]]
* [[bekämpfen]]
* [[bekennen]]
* [[beklagen]]
* [[bekommen]]
* [[bekümmern]]
* [[belagern]]
* [[belasten]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[belehnen]]
* [[belehren]]
* [[belohnen]]
* [[bemächtigen]]
* [[bemühen]]
* [[bemerken]]
* [[benötigen]]
* [[benehmen]]
* [[benutzen]]
* [[berühren]]
* [[beraten]]
* [[berauben]]
* [[berechnen]]
* [[bereichern]]
* [[bereuen]]
* [[berichten]]
* [[berufen]]
* [[beruhigen]]
* [[besahen]]
* [[beschäftigen]]
* [[beschützen]]
* [[beschlagen]]
* [[beschleunigen]]
* [[beschließen]]
* [[beschneiden]]
* [[beschuldigen]]
* [[beschweren]]
* [[bestellen]]
{{der-bottom}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈbɛ/|lang=hu}}

===Prefix===
{{infl|hu|prefix|cat=prefixes}}

# A verb particle or prefix indicating actions with [[inward]] direction.

===See also===
* [[:Category:Hungarian words prefixed with be-]]

===References===
* [[w:Hungarian verbs#Verb particles /prefixes (igekötők)]]

----

==Limburgish==

===Etymology===
Germanic.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bə/|lang=lim}}

===Prefix===
'''be-'''

# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies working on something or change of state.
# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies touching the object.
# Inseparable verbal prefix that signifies discussing or mentioning the object.

====Usage notes====
* The verb with this prefix takes very often a ''direct'' object (i.e., an object in the [[accusative case]]).

[[Category:Limburgish prefixes]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
A weak form of [[bi|bī]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/be/|lang=ang}}, {{SAMPA|/be/|lang=ang}}

===Prefix===
'''be-'''

# A productive prefix usually used to form verbs and adjectives, especially:
#:* verbs with the sense "around, throughout",
#:* transitive verbs from intransitive verbs, adjectives and nouns.

[[Category:Old English affixes]]

[[de:be-]]
[[fr:be-]]
[[ku:be-]]
[[nl:be-]]
[[no:be-]]
[[vo:be-]]