{{wikipedia|dab=beat}}
{{TOCright}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bēt}}, {{IPA|/biːt/}}, {{SAMPA|/bi:t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-beat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Homophones: [[beet]]
* {{rhymes|iːt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|beatan|lang=ang}}. Confer Old High German {{term|bozan|lang=goh}}, Old Norse {{term|bauta|lang=non}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[pulsation]] or [[throb]].
# A [[pulse]] on the [[beat level]], the [[metric]] level at which pulses are heard as the basic unit.  Thus a beat is the basic [[time]] unit of a piece.
# A [[rhythm]].
# The [[interference]] between two [[tone]]s of almost equal [[frequency]]
# A [[pause]] with the camera focused on one shot, often a characters face (often used in screenplays/teleplays).
# {{law enforcement}} The route of a patrol by a guard or officer as in ''[[walk the beat]]''.
# In newspapering, the primary [[focus]] of a reporter's stories (such as police/courts, education, city government, business etc.).
# {{rfv-sense}} A small part of a dramatic [[play]].
# The instrumental portion of a piece of [[hip-hop]] music.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''beat (noun}''}}
* [[backbeat]], [[back beat]]
* [[beat the meat]]
* [[deadbeat]]
* [[downbeat]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[drumbeat]]
* [[heartbeat]]
* [[upbeat]]
* [[walk the beat]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|pulsation}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|syke}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|pulse}}

{{trans-top|rhythm}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|такт}},  {{t|bg|ритъм}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beat}}, {{t+|nl|ritme|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|tahti}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|размер|m|tr=razm'ér}}, {{t|ru|ритм|m|tr=ritm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|interference between two tones of almost equal frequency }}
* Greek: {{t|el|διακρότημα|n|s}}, {{t|el|διακροτήματα|n|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|биение|m|tr=bijénije}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pause with the camera focused on one shot}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|law enforcement: route of a patrol by a guard or officer}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kierros}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|primary focus of a reporter's stories}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* {{sense|piece of hip-hop music}} [[track]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|beats|beating|beat|beaten}}

# To [[hit]]; to [[knock]]; to [[pound]]; to [[strike]].
#: ''As soon as she heard the news, she went into a rage and '''beat''' the wall with her fists until her knuckles bled.''
# To [[strike]] or [[pound]] [[repeatedly]], usually in some sort of [[rhythm]].
#: ''He danced hypnotically while she '''beat''' the atabaque.''
# To [[win]] against; to [[defeat]]; to do [[better]] than, [[outdo]], or [[excel]] someone in a particular, [[competitive]] [[event]].
#: ''Jan had little trouble '''beating''' John in tennis.  He lost five games in a row.''
#: ''No matter how quickly Joe finished his test, Roger always '''beat''' him.''
# {{context|intransitive|nautical}} To [[sail]] to [[windward]] using a [[series]] of [[alternate]] [[tack]]s across the [[wind]].
# To [[mix]] [[food]] in a rapid fashion. ''Compare [[whip]].''
#: '''''Beat''' the eggs and whip the cream.''
# (impersonal): ''It beats X Y'' = ''X cannot understand Y'', where Y is an indirect question.
#: (said by [[wikipedia:Fred Dibnah|Fred Dibnah]]): ''It beats me how she [= the Queen] keeps tabs on everybody''

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''beat (verb)''}}
* [[beat down]]
* [[beat off]]
* [[beater]]
* [[beat about the bush]]
* [[beat senseless]]
* [[beat some sense into]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[beat to the punch]]
* [[beat to quarters]]
* [[beat up]]
* [[beat to pulp]]
* [[wife-beater]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to hit, to knock, to pound, to strike}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ضرب|alt=ضَرَبَ|tr=Daraba}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծեծել|tr=''çeçel''}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|удрям}},  {{t|bg|бия}}
* Chinese: [[打擊]], [[打击]] (''dǎjī'')
* Czech: [[bít]], [[tlouct]], [[mlátit]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slaan}}, {{t+|nl|kloppen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyödä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|battre}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}, {{t+|de|hauen}}
* Hebrew: [[להכות]] (le'hakot)
* Italian: {{t+|it|colpire}}, {{t+|it|battere}}
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[殴る]]}} ({{Jpan|[[なぐる]]}}, ''naguru''), {{Jpan|[[叩く]]}} ({{Jpan|[[たたく]]}}, ''tataku'')
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Kalenjin]]: {{tø|kln|piring'}}
* [[Kikuyu]]: {{tø|ki|hora}}
* [[Luhya]]: {{tø|luy|khupa}}
* Polish: [[uderzać]], [[bić]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бить|tr=bit’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|побить|tr=pobít’}} {{pf}}, {{t+|ru|ударять|tr=udar'át’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|ударить|tr=udárit’}} {{pf}}
* Slovene: [[tolči]], [[tepsti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|golpear}}, {{t-|es|pegar}}, {{t+|es|aporrear}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chapa|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to strike or pound repeatedly}}
* Arabic: {{qualifier|e.g., heart}} {{t|ar|وجف|tr=wajafa}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զարկել|tr=''zarkel''}}, {{t|hy|բաբախել|tr=babaxel}}
* Czech: [[bít]], [[bušit]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kloppen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakata}},  {{t+|fi|lyödä}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|batar|xs=Ido}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[打つ]] ([[うつ]], ''utsu'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бить|tr=bit’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|побить|tr=pobít’}} {{pf}}, {{t+|ru|ударять|tr=udar'át’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|ударить|tr=udárit’}} {{pf}}
* Slovene: [[tolči]], [[tepsti]]
* Spanish: [[percutir]], [[golpear]] (repetidamente), (heart) [[latir]] (el corazón)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to win against}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|هزم|alt=هَزَمَ|tr=hazama}}, {{Arab|[[انتصر]]}} (''intáṣara''), {{Arab|[[ربح]]}} (''rábiḥa'')
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հաղթել|tr=''haġt'el''}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|надвивам}},  {{t|bg|побеждавам}}
* Chinese: [[贏]], [[赢]] (yíng), [[勝利]], [[胜利]] (''shènglì'')
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|verslaan}}, {{t+|nl|overwinnen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lyödä}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|battere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[勝つ]] ([[かつ]], ''katsu'')
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|побеждать|tr=pob'eždát’}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|победить|tr=pob'edít’}} {{pf}}; {{t+|ru|побить|tr=pobít’}} {{pf}}
* Slovene: [[premagati]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vencer}}, {{t-|es|derrotar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}, {{t+|sv|besegra}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|luovia}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|лавировать|tr=lavírovat'}} {{impf}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slå}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to whip}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[يخفق]]}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|бия}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slaan}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vatkata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|battre}}, {{t+|fr|fouetter}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|взбивать|tr=vzbivát’}} {{impf}}, {{t|ru|взбить|tr=vzbit’}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|batir}}, {{t-|es|revolver}}, {{t-|es|sacudir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vispa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[bato]] {{n}}, [[bati]] ''v''
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[pukul]], [[hantam]], [[hajar]], [[ketuk]], [[ketok]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[pello]] (1,2)
* {{ttbc|Novial}}: [[frapa]] (1), [[frapada]] (2)
* {{ttbc|Old English}}: [[hnossian]] (1,2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-more}}

# ''([[gay]] [[slang]])'' [[fabulous]]
#: Her makeup was beat!
# [[exhausted]]
#: ''After the long day, she was feeling completely '''beat'''.''

=====Synonyms=====
{{ws_refer|tired|exhausted}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|fabulous}}
* Dutch: [[mieters]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|exhausted}}
* Dutch: [[afgemat]], [[bekaf]], [[uitgeput]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|puhki}},  {{t+|fi|loppu}},  {{t-|fi|uupunut}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abatido}}
* Swedish: [[slutkörd]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|beatnik}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[beatnik]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[beat generation]]

===References===
* DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[abet#English|abet]]}}
* [[bate#English|bate]]
* [[beta#English|beta]], [[Beta#English|Beta]]

[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English simple past forms]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|beats|beatje}}

# A beat, rhythmic pulsation, notably in music

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{infl|fi|noun}}

# A [[#English|beat]] (in music)

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-risti|beat|||ä}}

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Adjective===
'''beat''' {{inv}}

# [[#English|beat]] (50s US literary and 70s UK music scenes)

===Noun===
'''beat''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|beat]] (rhythm accompanying music)

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|abet}}
* [[beta#Italian|beta]]

[[Category:Italian adjectives]]
[[Category:Italian nouns]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ro}} [[bibitus]] 'drunk'

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[bjat]|lang=ro}}

===Adjective===
{{ro-adj|4}}

# [[drunk]], [[intoxicated]]; [[tipsy]]

====Declension====
{{ro-adj-4|mpl=beţi|fpl=bete}}

====Antonyms====
* [[treaz]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==

===Noun===
'''beat'''

# [[happiness]]

[[ar:beat]]
[[de:beat]]
[[et:beat]]
[[el:beat]]
[[es:beat]]
[[eu:beat]]
[[fr:beat]]
[[gl:beat]]
[[ko:beat]]
[[io:beat]]
[[it:beat]]
[[kn:beat]]
[[sw:beat]]
[[ku:beat]]
[[hu:beat]]
[[ml:beat]]
[[nl:beat]]
[[ja:beat]]
[[no:beat]]
[[pl:beat]]
[[pt:beat]]
[[ro:beat]]
[[ru:beat]]
[[simple:beat]]
[[fi:beat]]
[[sv:beat]]
[[ta:beat]]
[[te:beat]]
[[tr:beat]]
[[uk:beat]]
[[vi:beat]]
[[vo:beat]]
[[zh:beat]]