==English==

===Etymology===
Found as early as 1837, in ''Pickwick Papers'' by [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], where it appears in the form, “It’s a reg’lar holiday to them—all porter and skittles”. The most common form, as a negative admonition, appears to have been popularized by [[w:Thomas Hughes|Thomas Hughes]] in ''Tom Brown's School Days'' (1857, see quotation below).

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[beer]] [[and]] [[skittles]]|-}}

# {{context|chiefly|UK|idiomatic|lang=en}} Fun times; [[pleasure]] and [[leisure]].
#* '''1857''', {{w|Thomas Hughes}}, ''Tom Brown's School Days'', part I, chapter 2:
#*: Well, well, we must bide our time. Life isn't all '''beer and skittles'''—but beer and skittles, or something better of the same sort, must form a good part of every Englishman's education.
#* '''1911''', {{w|Anthony Hope}}, ''Mrs. Maxon Protests'', ch. 22:
#*: Being a soldier's wife isn't all '''beer and skittles'''.
#* '''2012''' Mar. 24, John Walsh, "[http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/columnists/john-walsh/john-walsh-the-perils-of-reviewing-restaurants--think-of-us-dear-reader-7584107.html The perils of reviewing restaurants]," ''The Independent'' (UK) <small>(retrieved 24 July 2015)</small>:
#*: His plight reveals a truth that's often obscured by the envy of newspaper readers; that it's not all '''beer and skittles''' in restaurant-critic land.

====Usage notes====
* Often used in the negative, "''not all beer and skittles''".

====Synonyms====
* [[peaches and cream]]
* [[bowl of cherries]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|fun times}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hauskanpito}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: [[það eru ekki alltaf jólin|jólin]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English idioms]]