{{also|Befall}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|bifallen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|befeallan}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*bifallaną}}; equivalent to {{pre|en|be|fall}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}: {{IPA|en|/bɪˈfɔːl/}}
* {{a|US}}: {{IPA|en|/bɪˈfɔl/}}, {{IPA|en|/bɪˈfɑl/}}
* {{audio|en|En-us-befall.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɔːl}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|befalls|befalling|befell|befallen}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[fall]] upon; fall all over; [[overtake]]
#: ''At dusk an unusual calm '''befalls''' the wetlands.''
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[happen]].
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To happen to.
#: ''Temptation '''befell''' me.''
#* '''1886-88''', {{w|Richard F. Burton}}, ''The Supplemental Nights to the Thousand Nights and a Night'':
#*: But as soon as her son espied her, bowl in hand, he thought that haply something untoward had '''befallen''' her, but he would not ask of aught until such time as she had set down the bowl, when she acquainted him with that which had occurred{{...}} 
#* {{rfdatek|en|Shakespeare}}
#*: I beseech your grace that I may know / The worst that may '''befall''' me.
#* {{quote-web|en|date=2013-04-15| author=Walter Russell Mead| title=The Wreck of the Euro| site=The American Interest| url=http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2013/04/15/the-wreck-of-the-euro/| accessdate=2013-04-16| passage=As we’ve said before, with the exception of communism itself, the euro has been the biggest economic catastrophe to '''befall''' the continent (and the world) since the 1930s.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[fall]].
#* {{c.|1620}} anonymous, “{{w|Tom o' Bedlam|Tom o’ Bedlam’s Song}}” in ''Giles Earle his Booke'' (British Museum, Additional MSS. 24, 665):
#*: With a thought I tooke for Maudline<br>& a cruse of cockle pottage.<br>with a thing thus tall, skie blesse you all:<br>I '''befell''' into this dotage.

====Synonyms====
* {{qualifier|to fall upon}}
* {{qualifier|to happen}} {{l|en|come to pass}}, {{l|en|occur}}, {{l|en|transpire}}; See also [[Thesaurus:happen]]
* {{qualifier|to happen to}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|befalling}}<!--adjective, noun-->
* {{l|en|misbefall}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|happen to}}
* Bulgarian: случвам се, {{t+|bg|сполитам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overkomen}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|καταλαμβάνω}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|terjadi pada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|accido}}, {{t|la|incido}}, {{t+|la|cado}}, {{t+|la|ēveniō}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|западне}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|случаться}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|మూడు}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# [[case|Case]]; [[instance]]; [[circumstance]]; [[event]]; [[incident]]; [[accident]].
#* '''1495''', William Caxton, ''Vitas Patrum'':
#*: Or he had tolde al his '''befall'''.
#* '''1990''', India. Parliament. House of the People, India. Parliament. Lok Sabha, ''Lok Sabha debates'':
#*: This is proposed to be done by moving necessary amendment in this '''befall''' to the Finance Bill.
#* '''1994''', Socialist Party (India), ''Janata: Volume 49'':
#*: He said "I would advise people to cultivate frugal habits. I will not commit the crime of making them helpless by saying that they have no responsibility whatever in the '''befall''' of calamities like old age, illness, accident, etc. [...]"
#* '''1996''', Thomas Pfau, Rhonda Ray Kercsmar, ''Rhetorical and cultural dissolution in romanticism'':
#*: [...], the word "care" asserting itself subliminally in somewhat the same way that "fall" does in the "'''befall'''" of "Infant Joy."

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=abefll|flabel}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/bəˈfal/}}
* {{hyphenation|de|be|fall}}
* {{rhymes|de|al}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{de-verb form of|befallen|i|s}}

----

==Swedish==

===Verb===
{{head|sv|verb form}}

# {{sv-verb-form-imp|befalla}}