{{was wotd|2006|July|3}}
==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|he}} {{term|בהמות|tr=Bəhēmôth|sc=Hebr}}, the name of a creature mentioned in the [[w:Book of Job|Book of Job]] ([[s:Bible (King James)/Job#Chapter 40|XL.xv]]). It is most likely a plural form of {{term|בהמה|tr=bəhēmāh||animal|sc=Hebr}}. It may be an example of pluralis excellentiae, a Hebrew method of expressing greatness by pluralizing a noun; it thus indicates that Behemoth is the largest and most powerful animal. It is also suspected that it is derived from the ancient [[Egyptian]] name for the [[hippopotamus]], 'p-ehe-mau', which literally translates as "water ox." [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=behemoth]  The word entered into {{etyl|enm}} at around the 14th century from {{etyl|LL.}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/bɪˈhiːməθ/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/bəˈhiːməθ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-behemoth.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A great and mighty [[beast]] described in [[Job]] 40:15-24 used to illustrate God's mightiness.
# A great and mighty monster.
# Something which has the qualities of great power and might, and monstrous proportions.

====Synonyms====
* (''something of great size and power''): [[colossus]], [[leviathan]], [[mammoth]], [[titan]]

====Quotations====
* '''1611''' — [[w:King James Version of the Bible|King James Version of the Bible]], ''[[s:Bible, King James, Job|Job]] 40:15-18''
*: Behold now '''behemoth''', which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox.<br/>Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly.<br/>He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together.<br/>His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars of iron.
* '''2001''' — [[w:Eoin Colfer|Eoin Colfer]], ''Artemis Fowl'', p 58
*: Next she doused the smouldering troll with the contents of the restaurant's fire extinguisher, hoping the icy powder wouldn't revive the sleeping '''behemoth'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|mighty beast in the Book of Job}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[بهيموث]]}} (bahimūθ), {{Arab|[[بهموت]]}} (bahamūt)
* Czech: {{t|cs|behemot|m}}
* French: [[Béhémoth]]
* German: [[Behemot]], [[Moloch]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[בהמות]] (Bəhēmôth)
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ベヘモット|tr=behemotto|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|ベヒーモス|tr=behīmosu|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бегемот|m}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|behemot}},  {{t|tr|dev yaratık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mighty monster}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|obluda|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|behemo|xs=Esperanto}},  {{t-|eo|behemoto|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: [[béhémoth]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-|de|Riesentier|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|dev}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something of great size and power}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gigant|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|marmotreto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|dev}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[behemothian]]
* [[behemothic]]

===See also===
* [[leviathan]]

[[io:behemoth]]
[[ru:behemoth]]
[[fi:behemoth]]
[[ta:behemoth]]
[[te:behemoth]]
[[vi:behemoth]]
[[zh:behemoth]]