==English==

===Etymology===
From {{term|be-}}/{{term|ge-}} + a short form of {{etyl|ang}} {{term|gelyfan|ġelȳfan}}, ([[leafa]]).

===Alternative forms===
* [[beleeve]] {{italbrac|obsolete}}

===Pronunciation===
* (''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]] & [[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/bɪˈliːv/|/bəˈliːv/}}, {{SAMPA|/bI"li:v/|/b@"li:v/}}
* {{audio|en-us-believe.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{hyphenation|be|lieve}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|believ|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To think something is true without having proof or empirical evidence.
#: ''I '''believe''' there is life after death.''
# {{transitive}} {{rfv-sense}} To accept as true without empirical evidence.
#: ''I '''believe''' in faeries''
# {{transitive}} To accept that someone is telling the truth.
#: ''Why did I ever '''believe''' you?''
# {{transitive}} To accept as true.
#: ''If you '''believe''' the numbers, you'll agree we need change.''
# {{intransitive}} To have religious faith; to believe in a greater truth.
#: ''After that night in the church, I '''believed'''.''
# {{transitive}} To consider likely.
#: ''I '''believe''' it might rain tomorrow.''(This definition is the same as "to accept as true", but for a likely event "might rain tomorrow").

====Usage notes====
* The transitive verb ''believe'' and the phrasal verb ''believe in'' are similar but can have very different implications.
** To “believe” someone or something means to accept specific pieces of information as truth: ''believe the news'', ''believe the lead witness''. To “believe a complete stranger” means to accept a stranger's story with little evidence.
** To “believe in” someone or something means to place faith in that person or concept: ''believe in liberty'', ''believe in God''. To “believe in one's fellow man” means to place faith in mankind.
* Meanings sometimes overlap. To ''believe in'' a religious text would also require affirming at least the major principles. To ''believe'' a religious text might likewise imply placing one's faith in it, in addition to accepting its statements as facts.

====Quotations====
* '''1611''' — [[w:King James Version of the Bible|King James Version of the Bible]], ''[[s:Bible (King James)/Luke|Luke]] 1:1''
*: Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely '''believed''' among us...

====Derived terms====
* [[believable]]
* [[believability]]
* [[believe it or not]]
* [[believe in]]
* [[believe you me]]
* [[believer]]
* [[can you believe]]
* [[disbelieve]]
* [[unbelievable]]
* [[unbeliever]]

====Related terms====
* [[belief]]
* [[disbelief]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to accept that someone is telling the truth (object: person)}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[glo]]
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اعتقد|tr=i3táqada}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հավատալ|tr=havatal}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вярвам}}
* [[Cebuano]]: {{tø|ceb|tuo}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|相信|tr=[[xiāngxìn]]|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|věřit}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geloven}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|kredi je|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t+|eo|kredi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uskoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|croire}}
* German: {{t+|de|glauben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πιστεύω|tr=pistévo}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hisz}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|kredar|xs=Ido}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|creid|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|credere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|信じる|tr=しんじる, shinjiru}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|믿다|tr=mitda|sc=Hang}}
* [[Latgalian]]: {{tø|ltg|ticēt}}, {{tø|ltg|īticēt}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|credo|alt=crēdō}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ticēt}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|tro}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wierzyć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acreditar}}, {{t+|pt|crer}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|crede}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|верить|tr=vérit’}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|поверить|tr=povérit'}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|verjeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|creer}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tro}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|inanmak}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|credu|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|liuwe|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to accept as true}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[glo]]
* Arabic: {{t|ar|اعتقد|tr=i`taqada}},  {{t|ar|امن ب|tr=amana bi-}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вярвам}},  {{t|bg|смятам}},  {{t|bg|мисля}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|相信|tr=[[xiāngxìn]]|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geloven}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kredi|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|fidi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uskoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|croire}}
* German: {{t+|de|glauben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πιστεύω|tr=pistévo}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|creid|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|credere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|信じる|tr=しんじる, shinjiru}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|믿다|sc=Hang}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|credo|alt=crēdō}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ticēt}}
* [[Old Provençal]]: {{tø|pro|creyre}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acreditar}}, {{t+|pt|crer}}, {{t+|pt|confiar}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|crede}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|верить|tr=vérit’}} {{impf}},  {{t+|ru|поверить|tr=povérit'}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|verjeti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|creer}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tro}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|inanmak}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|credu|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|liuwe|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to consider likely}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[glo]],  {{t-|af|glo|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|ظن||tr=Zanna}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|смятам}},  {{t|bg|мисля}}
* Dutch: [[geloven]], [[denken]] (''to think''),  {{t+|nl|geloven}},  {{qualifier|to think}} {{t+|nl|denken}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kredi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uskoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|croire}}
* German: {{t+|de|glauben}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|creid|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|credere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|생각하다|sc=Hang}} ("to think")
* Latin: {{t+|la|credo|alt=crēdō}}
* Polish: [[sądzić]], [[wydawać się]], [[przypuszczać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acreditar}}, {{t+|pt|crer}}, {{t+|pt|achar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|полагать|tr=polagát'}}, {{t+|ru|считать|tr=š'itát'}}, {{t+|ru|думать|tr=dúmat'}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|smaoinich|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t-|gd|saoil|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tro}}, {{t|sv|förmoda}}, {{t|sv|anta}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|inanmak}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|credu|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|liuwe|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have religious faith; to believe in a greater truth}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|آمن|tr='aamana|sc=Arab}} ({{qualifier|present tense:}} {{t|ar|يؤمن|tr=yú'min|sc=Arab}})
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|вярвам}}
* Dutch: [[geloven]] in
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kredi|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|fidi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uskoa}}
* German: {{t+|de|glauben}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πιστεύω|tr=pistévo}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|creid|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acreditar}}, {{t+|pt|crer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|верить|tr=v'érit'}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|поверить|tr=pov'érit'}} {{pf.}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|verjeti}}, {{t|sl|verovati}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|creer}}, {{t|es|tener fe}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tro}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|inanmak}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|credu|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t-|fy|liuwe|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[vjerovati]]
* {{ttbc|et}}: [[uskuma]]
* {{ttbc|io}}: [[kredar]]
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[percaya]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[creder]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|km}}: {{Khmr|[[ជឿ]]}} (jeuə)
* {{ttbc|no}}: [[tro]]
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[crede]]
* {{ttbc|sl}}: [[verovati]]
* {{ttbc|vo}}: [[kredön]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|kind|form|hundred|280|believe|white|means|thus}}

----

==Dutch==

===Verb===
'''believe'''

# {{nl-verb-form|n=sg|t=pres|m=subj|believen}}

===Anagrams===
* [[beviele#Dutch|beviele]]

[[zh-min-nan:believe]]
[[ca:believe]]
[[cs:believe]]
[[et:believe]]
[[el:believe]]
[[es:believe]]
[[eo:believe]]
[[fa:believe]]
[[fr:believe]]
[[gl:believe]]
[[ko:believe]]
[[io:believe]]
[[id:believe]]
[[it:believe]]
[[kn:believe]]
[[kk:believe]]
[[ku:believe]]
[[lo:believe]]
[[lt:believe]]
[[hu:believe]]
[[ml:believe]]
[[my:believe]]
[[nl:believe]]
[[ja:believe]]
[[no:believe]]
[[oc:believe]]
[[pl:believe]]
[[pt:believe]]
[[ru:believe]]
[[simple:believe]]
[[fi:believe]]
[[sv:believe]]
[[ta:believe]]
[[te:believe]]
[[th:believe]]
[[tr:believe]]
[[vi:believe]]
[[zh:believe]]