{{also|bellydance|belly-dance}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|belly dance}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|bellydance}}
* {{l|en|belly-dance}}

===Etymology===
{{calque|en|fr|danse du ventre}}. First attested in English in 1889, in an article about that year's Exposition Universelle in Paris in the November 22 edition of the Yorkshire Factory Times : "A café in the Rue du Caire attracted 2,000 spectators daily to see the ‘belly dance’, and realised a total of 400,000 francs."<ref name=":0">Hawthorn, Ainsley (May 2019). [https://www.euppublishing.com/doi/full/10.3366/drs.2019.0250 "Middle Eastern Dance and What We Call It."] ''Dance Research'' 37 (1): 1-17.</ref>

Other early instances of the term explicitly use it as a gloss of ''danse du ventre.'' For example, in an 1891 account of the Exposition Universelle in the October 4 edition of ''The Daily Picayune'', "The Cafe Egyptian, which introduced to us the ‘danse du ventre,’ or indecent belly dance, alone cleared 500,000 francs",<ref name=":0" /> and in W.C. Morrow's 1899 book ''Bohemian Paris of Today'', "The ''danse du ventre'' (literally, "bellydance") is of Turkish origin".<ref>Morrow, W.C. (1899). [https://books.google.ca/books?id=iSr_CgAAQBAJ&q=belly+dance#v=snippet&q=belly%20dance&f=false Bohemian Paris of Today]</ref>

Two earlier occurrences of the term "belly dance" do not employ it in the sense we understand it today. In his 1883 memoir ''In the Land of the Lion and the Sun'', C.J. Wills uses the term in reference to a comical Persian dance where a man performed with a face painted on his abdomen. His head, chest, and arms were hidden under a gigantic white turban, creating the impression of a tiny person with "a huge round fat face".<ref>C. J. Wills (1891). ''In the Land of the Lion and the Sun, or Modern Persia''. New edition. London: Ward, Lock and Co., 115.</ref> In 1886, the term occurs in an announcement of an Independence Day celebration to be held by a Dakota Indigenous community: "There will be over 800 Indians at Grand View, Douglas county, Dakota, next July 5th, to celebrate the 4th of July. Everybody is invited to come. They will be in costume and act as follows: 1st. Big Belly Dance. Open."<ref>Jones, Andrew M. (July 2, 1886). [https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/465265167/ "The Fourth at Grand View."] ''The Mitchell Capital'' (Mitchell, SD) : 5.</ref>

Since at least the middle of the 20th century, dancers have questioned the appropriateness of both "belly dance" and ''danse du ventre'' as ways to refer to torso-articulated dances of Middle Eastern origin. Egyptian dancer Samia Gamal called "belly dance" a "rude term some newspapers use to describe [my dancing]".<ref>Author unnamed (January 16, 1952). [https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/12202747/ "Belly Dancer Ready to Show Her Talents."] ''High Point Enterprise'': 1.</ref> North American dancers like Ibrahim Farrah and Morocco of New York have called on dancers to reject the term "belly dance" in favor of the Arabic name ''raqs sharqi'' or its translation "Oriental dance".<ref>Farrah, Ibrahim (1977). "Editorial: Belly dance vs. Oriental dance." ''Arabesque'' 2 (5): 3, 6.</ref><ref>Morocco (C. Varga Dinicu) (2011). "What's in a Name? More Than You Imagine...." ''[https://books.google.ca/books/about/You_Asked_Aunt_Rocky_Answers_Advice_Abou.html?id=Vo6iAwAAQBAJ&redir_esc=y You Asked Aunt Rocky: Answers & Advice About Raqs Sharqi & Raqs Shaabi]''. Virginia Beach: RDI Publications, 319-350.</ref>

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# A form of dance originating in the [[Middle East]] and characterized by movements of the torso.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|belly dancer}}
* {{l|en|belly dancing}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|form of dance}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|رَقْص شَرْقِيّ|m}} {{qualifier|oriental dance}}, {{t|ar|رَقْص بَلَدِيّ|m}} {{qualifier|national dance}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|պորտապար}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|肚皮舞|tr=dùpíwǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|břišní tanec|m}}
* Danish: {{t|da|mavedans}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|buikdans}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|ventra danco}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vatsatanssi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|danse du ventre|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bauchtanz|m}}, {{t|de|orientalischer Tanz|m}}
* Greek: {{t|el|χορός οριεντάλ|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|מחול מזרחי}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hastánc}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|tari perut}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|dansa de ventre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|danza del ventre|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ベリーダンス|tr=berīdansu}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|стомачен танц|m}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|tarian perut}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|magedans|m}}, {{t|nb|mavedans|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|magedans|m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|رقص عربی|tr=raqs 'arabi}} {{qualifier|Arabic dance}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|taniec brzucha|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dança do ventre|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|та́нец живота́|m}}, {{t|ru|беллидэ́нс|m}}, {{t+|ru|беллида́нс|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|danza del vientre|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|magdans|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|göbek dansı}}, {{t+|tr|oryantal}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|bälidadanüd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
<references />

===Further reading===
* Hawthorn, Ainsley (May 2019). [https://www.euppublishing.com/doi/full/10.3366/drs.2019.0250 "Middle Eastern Dance and What We Call It."] ''Dance Research'' 37 (1): 1-17. 
*Hawthorn, Ainsley (May 23, 2019). [https://euppublishingblog.com/2019/05/23/middle-eastern-dance-belly-dance/ "Why do we call Middle Eastern dance 'belly dance'?"] ''Edinburgh University Press Blog''.
*Morocco (C. Varga Dinicu) (2011). "What's in a Name? More Than You Imagine...." ''[https://books.google.ca/books/about/You_Asked_Aunt_Rocky_Answers_Advice_Abou.html?id=Vo6iAwAAQBAJ&redir_esc=y You Asked Aunt Rocky: Answers & Advice About Raqs Sharqi & Raqs Shaabi]''. Virginia Beach: RDI Publications, 319-350.
*Osweiler, Laura (Amara) (2006). [https://www.amaradances.com/amara_articles/2006_naming.html "Naming the Dance."] ''Zaghareet Magazine''.
*Shira. [http://www.shira.net/musings/dance-by-any-other-name.htm "Belly Dance: A Dance By Any Other Name."] ''Shira.net''.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=abcdeellny|call-by-need}}

[[Category:en:Dances]]