{{see|Ben|bēn|běn|bèn|been|benn|-ben}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ben/}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛn}}

===Etymology 1===
Probably representing a North African pronunciation of {{etyl|ar|en}} {{term|بان||ben tree|tr=bān|lang=ar|sc=Arab}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A tree, ''Moringa oleifera'' or [[horseradish]] tree of Arabia and India, which produces [[oil of ben]].
# The winged [[seed]] of the ben tree.
# The [[oil]] of the ben seed.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|ben tree}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[بان]]}} (bān) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[моринга]] (morínga) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|seed of the ben tree}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|oil of ben}}
* Russian: [[мориндовое масло]] (morindóvoje máslo) {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{Arab.}} and {{Hebr.}} ''ben'' ('son').

====Alternative spellings====
* [[Ben]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|usually|capitalised}} [[son|Son]] of (used with Hebrew and Arabic surnames).

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|son of}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[بن]]}} (ben, bin) {{m}}, {{Arab|[[ابن]]}} (ibn, ibni) {{m}}
* Hebrew: [[בן]] (ben) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[بن]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{Gael.}} ''[[beinn]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[Scottish]] or [[Irish]] mountain or high peak.

===Etymology 4===
{{OE.}} ''[[binnan]]'' (corresponding to ''[[by]]'' + ''[[in]]'').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Scottish|Northern English}} The inner [[room]] of a two-room [[hut]] or [[shack]] (as opposed to the [[but]]).

----

==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
{{Turk.|bs}} ''[[ben#Turkish|ben]]''.

===Noun===
{{bs-noun|g=m|benovi}}

# [[birthmark]]
# [[mole]]
# [[naevus]]

====Synonyms====
* [[mladež#Bosnian|mladež]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{infl|da|noun}}

# [[leg]]
# [[bone]]

----

==Dutch==

===Verb===
{{infl|nl|verb form}}

# First-person singular of '''[[zijn]]'''.

[[Category:Dutch verb forms]]

----

==Italian==

===Adverb===
{{infl|it|adverb}}

# Short form of '''[[bene]]'''.
#: '''''ben''' fatto'' — well done

----

==Japanese==

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=べん|hidx=へん'}}

# [[弁]], [[辯]]: [[speech]]
# [[便]]: [[convenience]], [[excreta]]
# [[冕]]: [[crown]]

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
{{infl|ku|noun}}

# [[string]], [[rope]]

====Related terms====
* [[bend#Kurdish|bend]]
* [[benî#Kurdish|benî]]

====Derived terms====
* [[benik#Kurdish|benik]]
* [[benk#Kurdish|benk]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|p|pin=běn|pint=ben3|tas=本}}

# (for books/periodicals/files/etc.)
#: ''[[ni]] [[xiang]] [[mai|mǎi]] [[na]] [[ben]] [[shu]]?''  "Which book do you want to buy?"
#: ''[[na]] [[ben]] [[shu]] [[mai|mài]] [[duoshao]] [[qian]]? (nà běn shū mài duōshao qián? 那本书卖多少钱?)'' &mdash; How much is that book?

===Pinyin syllable===
'''ben'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of three tones, [[bēn]], [[běn]], or [[bèn]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Manx==

===Noun===
{{infl|gv|noun|gender=f}}

# [[woman]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[bein]]

===Noun===
{{no-noun-n1}}

# [[leg]], [[bone]]

----


==Old English==

===Etymology===
Akin to Old Norse {{term|bœn|lang=non}} (Danish {{term|bøn|lang=da}}, [[Nynorsk]] {{term|bøn|lang=nn}}, [[Bokmål]] {{term|bønn|lang=nb}})

===Noun===
{{infl|ang|noun}}

# [[leg]], [[bone]]

----

==Scots==

===Etymology===
{{OE.|sco}} ''[[binnan]]''.

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# The inner [[room]] of a two-room [[hut]] or [[shack]] (as opposed to the [[but]]).

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Sv-ben.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|ˈbeːn|lang=sv}}

===Noun===
{{infl|sv|noun|g=n}}
{{sv-noun-irreg-n}}

# {{anatomy|lang=sv}} [[leg|Leg]]; a [[body part]].
# [[leg|Leg]]; part of trousers which covers the legs.
# The part of a piece [[furniture]] on which it stands.
# {{skeleton|lang=sv}} [[bone|Bone]]; any of the components of an [[endoskeleton]].
# {{skeleton|lang=sv}} [[bone|Bone]]; the material of the endoskeleton

====Related terms====
* [[skinn och ben]]
* [[bena]]
* [[bena ut]]
* [[benig]]
* [[underben]]
* [[skenben]]

----

==Turkish==
{{rfv|the pronoun and mole senses are almost certainly not related}}

===Noun===
{{infl|tr|noun}}

# [[I]], [[me]]
# [[ego]]
# [[mole]], [[birthmark]]

====Related terms====
* [[bana#Turkish|bana]]
* [[beni#Turkish|beni]]
* [[benim#Turkish|benim]]

====See also====
* [[leke]]
* [[yama]]

----

==Volapük==

===Etymology===
Ultimately from {{L.|vo}} ''[[bene]]''.

===Noun===
{{infl|vo|noun}}

# [[grace]]
# [[well-being]]

====Synonyms====
* [[benolab]]<!--for which, or for both?-->

[[ast:ben]]
[[az:ben]]
[[br:ben]]
[[da:ben]]
[[de:ben]]
[[el:ben]]
[[es:ben]]
[[fr:ben]]
[[fy:ben]]
[[ko:ben]]
[[io:ben]]
[[it:ben]]
[[ku:ben]]
[[lt:ben]]
[[li:ben]]
[[hu:ben]]
[[nl:ben]]
[[no:ben]]
[[pl:ben]]
[[pt:ben]]
[[ro:ben]]
[[ru:ben]]
[[fi:ben]]
[[sv:ben]]
[[vi:ben]]
[[tr:ben]]
[[vo:ben]]
[[zh:ben]]