{{also|Bent}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK|US}} {{enPR|bĕnt}}, {{IPA|/bɛnt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/bent/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bent.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛnt}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{term|bend|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
'''bent'''

# {{en-past of|bend}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|Of something that is usually straight|lang=en}} folded, dented
# {{context|derogatory|colloquial|chiefly|UK|lang=en}} [[homosexual|Homosexual]].
# [[determined|Determined]] or [[insistent]].
#: ''He was '''bent''' on going to Texas, but not even he could say why.''
#: ''They were '''bent''' on mischief.''
# Of a person, leading a life of [[crime]].
# {{context|slang|football|lang=en}} [[inaccurate]] at [[shooting]]
#: ''That shot was so '''bent''' it left the pitch.''
# {{context|colloquial|chiefly|US|lang=en}} Suffering from [[the bends]]
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[high|High]] from using both [[Cannabis|marijuana]] and [[alcohol]].
#: ''Man, I am so '''bent''' right now!''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|folded}} [[crooked]]
* {{sense|homosexual}} [[queer]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[bent as a nine-bob note]]

=====Related terms=====
* {{sense|determined}} [[hellbent]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|folded}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|огънат}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|tort}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gebogen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|taipunut}}, {{t|fi|taittunut}}
* French: {{t+|fr|courbé}}
* German: {{t|de|gebeugt}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|hajlott}}, {{t+|hu|görbe}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|шык}}, {{t+|ky|шыктуулук}}, {{t|ky|адат}}, {{t|ky|өнөкөт}}, {{t+|ky|ынта}}, {{t+|ky|кунт}}, {{t+|ky|умтулуу}}, {{t+|ky|тырышуу}}, {{t+|ky|ийри-буйру}}, {{t+|ky|бурулуш}}, {{t+|ky|кайрылыш}}, {{t|ky|ийретүү}}, {{t|ky|ийрейүү}}, {{t+|ky|кыйшайуу}}, {{t+|ky|эңкейиш}}, {{t+|ky|бүкчүйгөн}}, {{t+|ky|бүкчүйгөн}}, {{t+|ky|жантайма}}, {{t+|ky|кыйшык}}, {{t+|ky|ийилген}}, {{t+|ky|умтулган}}, {{t+|ky|тилек}}, {{t+|ky|ынтызарлык}}, {{t+|ky|куштарлык}}, {{t+|ky|чабынды}}, {{t+|ky|шалбаа}}, {{t+|ky|талаа}}, {{t+|ky|муундуу}}, {{t+|ky|муунактуу}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|gârbov}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|согнутый|tr=sógnutyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|изогнутый|tr=izógnutyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|гнутый|tr=gnútyj|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|кривой|tr=krivój|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|искривлённый|tr=iskrivljónnyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|lùbach}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|böjd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Homosexual}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|педерастки}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|przegięty|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Determined or insistent}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|склонен}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|met de zinnen gezet op}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[inclination]] or [[talent]].
#: ''He had a natural '''bent''' for painting.''
# A [[predisposition]] to act or react in a particular way.
#: ''His mind was of a technical '''bent'''.''
# The state of being curved, crooked, or inclined from a straight line; flexure; curvity.
#: ''the '''bent''' of a bow''
#: {{rfquotek|Wilkins}}
# A [[declivity]] or [[slope]], as of a hill.
#: {{rfquotek|Dryden}}
# Particular direction or tendency; flexion; course.
#* John Locke
#*: '''bents''' and turns of the matter
# {{context|carpentry|lang=en}} A [[transverse]] [[frame]] of a framed [[structure]].
# Tension; force of acting; energy; impetus.
#* Norris
#*: the full '''bent''' and stress of the soul

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|an inclination or talent}} [[disposition]], [[predilection]], [[proclivity]], [[propensity]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|inclination or talent}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|влечение|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanleg|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|predisposition}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|склонност|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanleg|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ang}}: [[geap|ġēap]] (1)
* {{ttbc|sv}}: [[böjelse]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[îndoit]] [[înclinat]]
* {{ttbc|vi}}: [[thiên hướng]], [[khuynh hướng]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain.  Apparently representing {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term||beonet-}} (attested only in place-names and personal names), cognate with Old High German {{term|binuz|lang=goh}} (modern German {{term|Binse||rush, reed|lang=de}}).

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of various stiff or reedy [[grasses]].
#* Drayton
#*: His spear a '''bent''', both stiff and strong.
#* '''1888''', Rudyard Kipling, ‘The Strange Ride of Morrowbie Jukes’, ''The Phantom ’Rickshaw and Other Tales'', Folio Society 2005, p. 121:
#*: Gunga Dass gave me a double handful of dried '''bents''' which I thrust down the mouth of the lair to the right of his, and followed myself, feet foremost [...].
#*'''1913''', [[w:D. H. Lawrence|D.H. Lawrence]], ''[[s:Sons_and_Lovers|Sons and Lovers]]'', [[s:Sons and Lovers/Chapter 9|chapter 9]]
#*: Clusters of strong flowers rose everywhere above the coarse tussocks of '''bent'''.
# A grassy area, [[grassland]].
#* ''The Ballad of Chevy Chase''
#*: Bowmen bickered upon the '''bent'''.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:en:LGBT]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
Created in analogy to {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|ben||am|lang=nl}}. Modern Dutch ''bent'' has replaced the {{etyl|dum|-}} verb forms {{term|bes|lang=dum}} and {{term|best||(you) are (sg.)|lang=dum}}.<ref>A. van Loey, ''Schönfeld's Historische Grammatica van het Nederlands'', 8. druk 1970, ISBN 90-03-21170-1; §147a</ref>

See also verb form {{term|bennen|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɛnt|lang=nl}}

===Verb===
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=2|n=sg|t=pres|zijn|nodot=1}}; [[are]].

===References===
<references/>

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈbɛnt/|lang=hu}}
* {{hyphenation|bent}}

===Adverb===
{{head|hu|adverb}}

# [[inside]]

====Synonyms====
* [[benn]]

====Antonyms====
* [[kinn]], [[kint]]

----

==Scots==

===Alternative forms===
* {{term|bynt|lang=sco}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|sco}} {{term|beonet|lang=ang}}, cf. {{etyl|enm|sco}} {{term|bent|lang=enm}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=sco|/ˈbɛnt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/bent/}}

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# {{context|archaic|14th century|lang=sco}} Coarse or wiry grass growing upon moorlands.
# {{context|archaic|15th century|lang=sco}} An area covered with coarse or wiry grass; a [[moor]].

====Derived terms====
* {{term|benty|lang=sco}} (covered in bent)

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fa|tr}} {{term|بند|tr=band|lang=fa}}.

===Noun===
{{tr-noun}}

# [[dam]]

[[ar:bent]]
[[br:bent]]
[[ca:bent]]
[[cy:bent]]
[[de:bent]]
[[el:bent]]
[[es:bent]]
[[fa:bent]]
[[fr:bent]]
[[gl:bent]]
[[ko:bent]]
[[hy:bent]]
[[io:bent]]
[[kn:bent]]
[[ku:bent]]
[[ky:bent]]
[[lt:bent]]
[[li:bent]]
[[hu:bent]]
[[mg:bent]]
[[ml:bent]]
[[my:bent]]
[[fj:bent]]
[[nl:bent]]
[[ja:bent]]
[[no:bent]]
[[uz:bent]]
[[pl:bent]]
[[ru:bent]]
[[simple:bent]]
[[fi:bent]]
[[sv:bent]]
[[tl:bent]]
[[ta:bent]]
[[te:bent]]
[[chr:bent]]
[[tr:bent]]
[[tk:bent]]
[[vi:bent]]
[[zh:bent]]