==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=better}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈbɛtə/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈbɛtɚ/|[ˈbɛɾɚ]|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-better.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{a|AusE}} {{IPA|/ˈbetə(ɹ)/|[ˈbeɾə(ɹ)]|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛtə(r)|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|bet|ter|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|better|lang=enm}}, {{term|bettre|lang=enm}}, {{term|betre|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|betera||better|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*batizô||better}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*bhAd-||good}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sa|-}} {{term|भद्र||tr=bhadrá|blessed, fortunate, happy, good|lang=sa}}. For Germanic cognates: see {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*batizô}}. Verb is from {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|beteren|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|beterian||to make better, improve|lang=ang}}. Related to {{l/en|best}}. Compare also {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|batna||to improve|lang=is}}, {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|bót||improvement|lang=is}}. More at {{l/en|batten}}, {{l/en|boot}}.

====Adverb====
{{head|en|adverb comparative form}}

# {{en-comparative of|well|POS=adverb}}
#* '''1901''', [[w:Louis Couperus|Louis Couperus]], [[w:Alexander Teixeira de Mattos|Alexander Teixeira de Mattos]] (translator), ''[[s:Small Souls/Chapter XXIX|Small Souls]]'',
#*: “I’ve had enough of cycling with you chaps. I can spend my Sundays '''better''' than in tormenting cats and quarrelling and fighting.”
# More, in reference to value, distance, time, etc.
#: ''ten miles and '''better'''''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[had better]]
* [['d better]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[best]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|comparative form of the adverb ''well''}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|по-добре}}
* Danish: {{t|da|bedre}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|beter}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mieux}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|miei}}, {{t|fur|miôr}}
* German: {{t+|de|besser}}
* Hindi: (behtar)
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|betur}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|melio}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|meglio}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|ndro raha}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|bedre}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|lepiej}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|melhor}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|mai bine}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|лучше|tr=lúčše}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|bólje}}, {{t|sl|bóljše}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mejor}}, {{t+|es|mejores|p}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bora}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bättre}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|gudikumo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[improve]].
#* Wordsworth
#*: Love '''betters''' what is best.
#* Thackeray
#*: He thought to '''better''' his circumstances.
#* Macaulay
#*: the constant effort of every man to '''better''' himself
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To become better; to improve.
#: {{rfquotek|Carlyle}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To surpass in excellence; to exceed; to excel.
#* Hooker
#*: The works of nature do always aim at that which can not be '''bettered'''.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To give advantage to; to support; to advance the interest of.
#* Milton
#*: Weapons more violent, when next we meet, / May serve to '''better''' us and worse our foes.
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[had better|Had better]].
#: ''You '''better''' do that if you know what's good for you.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[betterer]]
* [[betterment]]

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:improve]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to improve}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|подобрявам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|millorar}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|miorâ}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|migliorare}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|forbedre}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|بهبودن}}, {{t+|fa|بهبودی}}
* Polish: [[poprawiać]] / [[poprawić]], [[polepszać]] / [[polepszyć]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|melhorar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|îmbunătăți}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mejorar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|bora}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förbättra}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|gudükumön}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|gwella}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[entity]], usually [[animate]], [[deemed]] [[superior]] to another; one who has a claim to precedence; a superior.
#: ''He quickly found Ali his '''better''' in the ring.''
#* Hooker
#*: Their '''betters''' would hardly be found.

====Derived terms====
* [[get the better of]]

===Etymology 2===
Alternate pronunciation of {{term|bettor}} or modern formation from the verb to {{term|bet}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{alternative spelling of|bettor|lang=en}}

====Statistics====
* {{rank|going|knew|seen|207|better|name|among|done}}

[[Category:en:Betting]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
----

==Scots==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ˈbɛtər]|lang=sco}}

===Adjective===
{{head|sco|adjective comparative form}}

# {{comparative of|guid|lang=sco}}

====Derived terms====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|sco|better-faured|gloss=better-featured, better-looking}}
* {{l|sco|bettermaist|gloss=better-class}}
* {{l|sco|betterment|gloss=improvement}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|sco|betterness|gloss=recovery}}
* {{l|sco|the better o that|gloss=the better for that}}
{{der-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{sco-adv}}

# [[#English|better]]
# quite [[recovered]] from illness
# more than

===Noun===
{{sco-noun|-}}

# that which is better, something better or superior

===Verb===
{{sco-verb}}

# to [[#English|better]], [[improve]]

----

==West Frisian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ofs|fy}} {{term|betera|lang=ofs}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|fy}} {{m|gem-pro|*batizô}}. Compare English {{term|better|lang=en}}, Low German {{term|beter|lang=nds}}, Dutch {{term|beter|lang=nl}}, German {{term|besser|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|bedre|lang=da}}.

===Adjective===
{{head|fy|adjective}}

# [[#English|better]]

[[ang:better]]
[[az:better]]
[[ca:better]]
[[de:better]]
[[et:better]]
[[el:better]]
[[es:better]]
[[fa:better]]
[[fr:better]]
[[gl:better]]
[[ko:better]]
[[hy:better]]
[[io:better]]
[[zu:better]]
[[it:better]]
[[kn:better]]
[[kk:better]]
[[sw:better]]
[[ku:better]]
[[ky:better]]
[[lo:better]]
[[li:better]]
[[hu:better]]
[[mg:better]]
[[ml:better]]
[[my:better]]
[[fj:better]]
[[nl:better]]
[[ja:better]]
[[no:better]]
[[pl:better]]
[[pt:better]]
[[sa:better]]
[[simple:better]]
[[fi:better]]
[[sv:better]]
[[tl:better]]
[[ta:better]]
[[te:better]]
[[th:better]]
[[chr:better]]
[[tr:better]]
[[vi:better]]
[[zh:better]]