{{also|Bill|bíll}}
==English==
{{slim-wikipedia|dab=bill|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɪl/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bill.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪl}}

===Etymology 1===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|bil||lang=ang}}, from West Germanic. Cognate with German {{term|Bille||lang=de|axe}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of various bladed or pointed hand weapons, originally designating an Anglo-Saxon sword, and later a [[weapon]] of [[infantry]], especially in the 14th and 15th centuries, commonly consisting of a [[broad]], [[heavy]], [[double]]-[[edge]]d, hook-shaped [[blade]], with a short [[pike]] at the back and another at the top, attached to the end of a long [[staff]].
#* {{rfdate}}, {{w|Thomas Babington Macaulay}}
#*: France had no infantry that dared to face the English bows and '''bills'''.
#* '''1786''', Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons''.
#*: In the British Museum there is an entry of a warrant, granted to Nicholas Spicer, authorising him to impress smiths for making two thousand Welch '''bills''' or glaives.<!--A question to somebody who knows: if Welch bill and glaive are the same thing, shouldn’t this example be moved to the entry for glaive? (Glaive is a pole + a sword)-->
# A [[cut]]ting [[instrument]], with [[hook]]-[[shape]]d [[point]], and [[fit]]ted with a [[handle]], used in [[pruning]], etc.; a [[billhook]].
# Somebody armed with a bill; a [[billman]].
#: {{rfquotek|Strype}}
# A [[pickaxe]], or [[mattock]].
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} The [[extremity]] of the [[arm]] of an [[anchor]]; the point of or beyond the [[fluke]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|weapon}} [[polearm]]
* {{sense|cutting instrument}} [[billhook]], [[hand bill]], [[hedge bill]]
* {{sense|somebody armed with a bill}} [[billman]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|weapon of infantry}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|алебарда|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hilpari}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hallebarde|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hillebard|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|cutting instrument}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|секач|m}}, {{t-|bg|градинска ножица}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vesuri}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|faskinkniv|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|somebody armed with a bill}}
* French: {{t+|fr|hallebardier|m}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|hillebardiär|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extremity of the arm of an anchor}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|лапа|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kynsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[brown-bill]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To dig, chop, etc., with a bill.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to work with a bill}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hakata}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|hacka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang|en}} [[bile#Old English|bile]], of unknown origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[beak]] of a bird, especially when small or flattish; sometimes also used with reference to a [[turtle]], [[platypus]], or other [[animal]].
#* '''1595''', The woosel cock so black of hue, With orange-tawny '''bill''', The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill... — William Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', Act III, Scene I, line 125.
# A beak-like projection, especially a [[promontory]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{qualifier|beak of a bird}} [[beak]], [[neb]], [[nib]], [[pecker]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[duckbill]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|bird's beak}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|sqep|m}}, {{t+|sq|çukë|f}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|منقار|m|tr=minqār}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|կտուց|tr=ktuc’}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|дзюба|f|tr=dzjúba}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|човка|f|tr=čovka}}, {{t+|bg|клюн|m|tr=kljun}}
* Catalan: {{t-|ca|bec|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|鳥嘴|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|鸟嘴|tr=niǎozuǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|嘴|tr=zuǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|喙|tr=huì|sc=Hani}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{tø|crh|ğağa}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zobák|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|næb}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|snavel}}, {{t+|nl|bek}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|beko}}
* Faroese: {{t-|fo|nev|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nokka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bec|m}}
* Georgian: {{t-|ka|ნისკარტი|tr=niskarti|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schnabel|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ράμφος|n|tr=rámfos}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|चोंच|tr=ćo.nć|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csőr}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|nef|n}}, {{t+|is|goggur|m}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|gob|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|becco|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|嘴|tr=[[くちばし]], kuchibashi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{tø|ckb|ده‌ندوک|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|snapas}}
* Low German: {{t+|nds|Snavel|m}}
** Plauttdietsch (Mennonite Low German) {{t-|nds|Schnovel, Schnowel|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|клун|m|tr=klun}}
* Marathi: {{t-|mr|चोच|tr=ćoć|sc=Deva}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|nebb}}
* Old Norse: {{tø|non|nef|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dziób}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bico|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|cioc|f|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|клюв|m|tr=kljuv}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t-|sh|кљун|m|tr=kljun|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t-|sh|kljun|m}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|zobák|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kljun|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pico|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|näbb|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|gaga}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-|uk|дзьоб|m|tr=dz′ob}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|honed}}, {{t-|vo|bödahoned}}
* West Frisian: {{t-|fy|snaffel}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|beaklike projection}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|nokka}}
* German: {{qualifier|land}} {{t-|de|Landzunge|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
* Volapük: {{qualifier|land}} {{t-|vo|länalineg}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[peck]].
# To stroke bill against bill, with reference to [[doves]]; to [[caress]] in [[fondness]].
#* '''1599''', As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to stroke bill against bill}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kuhertaa}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|χαϊδολογιέμαι|tr=chaïdologiémai}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kyssas}}, {{t-|sv|näbbas}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|xno|en}} {{term|bille||lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|bulle||lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|ML.|en}} {{term|bulla||lang=la|seal", "sealed document}}. Compare [[bull]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A written list or inventory. (''Now obsolete except in specific senses or set phrases; [[bill of lading]], [[bill of goods]], etc.'')
# A document, originally sealed; a formal statement or official memorandum. (''Now obsolete except with certain qualifying words; [[bill of health]], [[bill of sale]] etc.'')
# A [[draft]] of a [[law]], [[present]]ed to a [[legislature]] for [[enactment]]; a [[propose]]d or [[project]]ed law.
#* '''1600''', Why, I'll exhibit a '''bill''' in the parliament for the putting down of men. — William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act II, Scene I, line 28.
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2012-12-14
|author=Simon Jenkins|authorlink=Simon Jenkins
|title=We mustn't overreact to North Korea boys' toys
|volume=188|issue=2|page=23
|date=2012-12-21
|magazine=[[w:The Guardian Weekly|The Guardian Weekly]]
|url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/dec/14/north-korea-boys-toys-threat-reaction
|passage=David Cameron insists that his latest communications data '''bill''' is “vital to counter terrorism”. Yet terror is mayhem. It is no threat to freedom. That threat is from counter-terror, from ministers capitulating to securocrats.}}
# {{context|obsolete|legal|lang=en}} A [[declaration]] made in writing, stating some [[wrong]] the [[complainant]] has [[suffer]]ed from the [[defendant]], or a [[fault]] [[commit]]ted by some person against a law.
# {{context|US|lang=en}} A piece of paper [[money]]; a [[banknote]].
#* '''1830''', Anon, ''The Galaxy of Wit: Or, Laughing Philosopher, Being a Collection of Choice Anecdotes, Many of Which Originated in or about "The Literary Emporium"'' — He gave the change for a three dollar '''bill'''. Upon examination, the '''bill''' proved to be counterfeit.
# A written note of goods sold, [[service]]s [[render]]ed, or work done, with the price or [[charge]]; an [[invoice]].
#* '''1607''', My lord, here is my '''bill'''. — William Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens'', Act III, Scene IV, line 85.
# A paper, written or printed, and [[post]]ed up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a [[placard]]; a [[poster]]; a [[handbill]].
#* '''1595''', In the meantime I will draw a '''bill''' of properties, such as our play wants. — William Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', Act I, Scene II, line 104.
#* She put up the '''bill''' in her parlor window. — Dickens.
# A [[writing]] [[bind]]ing the [[signer]] or signers to pay a [[certain]] [[sum]] at a [[future]] day or on [[demand]], with or without [[interest]], as may be [[state]]d in the [[document]]. A bill of exchange. In the United States, it is usually called a [[note]], a note of hand, or a [[promissory]] note.
#* '''1600''', Ay, and Rato-lorum too; and a gentleman born, Master Parson; who writes himself Armigero, in any bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, Armigero. — William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act I, Scene I, line 8.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|account of goods}} [[account]], [[invoice]]
* {{sense|written or printed advertisement posted or otherwise distributed}} [[broadsheet]], [[broadside]], [[card]],[[circular]], [[flier]], [[flyer]], [[handbill]], [[poster]], [[posting]], [[placard]], [[notice]], [[throwaway]]
* {{sense|draft of a law}} [[measure]]
* {{sense|writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day}} [[bank bill]], [[banker's bill]], [[bank note]], [[banknote]], [[Federal Reserve note]], [[government note]], [[greenback]], [[note]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|written inventory}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сметка|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|luettelo}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λογαριασμός|m|tr=logariasmós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{trreq|ro}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|official statement}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|julistus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|note|f}}, {{t+|fr|acte|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nota|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förteckning|c}}, {{t+|sv|lista|c}}, {{t-|sv|intyg|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|draft of a law}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|законопроект|m}}
* Finnish: [[lakiehdotus]]
* French: {{t-|fr|projet de loi|m}}
* German: [[Gesetzesentwurf]] {{m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|νομοσχέδιο|n|tr=nomoschédio}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|frumvarp|n}}
* Italian: [[disegno]] di [[legge]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t-|lv|likumprojekts|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|нацрт-закон|m|tr=nácrt-zákon}}, {{t-|mk|законски проект|m|tr=zákonski proékt}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|законопроект|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=zakonoproɛ́kt}}, {{t+|ru|билль|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=billʹ}} ''in Britain''
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t-|gd|bile|m}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|lagförslag|c}}, {{t+|sv|motion|c}}, {{t+|sv|proposition|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|law: declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kanne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|greffe|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κατηγορητήριο|n|tr=katigoritírio}}, {{t+|el|εγκλητήριο|n|tr=egklitírio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|заявление|n|tr=zajavlénije}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|piece of paper money|banknote}}

{{trans-top|invoice}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|فاتورة|f|tr=fatuura}}, {{t+|ar|حساب|m|tr=Hisaab}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сметка|f}}, {{t+|bg|фактура|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|帳單|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|帐单|tr=zhàngdān|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|účet|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kalkulo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lasku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|facture|f}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rechnung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τιμολόγιο|n|tr=timológio}}, {{t+|el|λογαριασμός|m|tr=logariasmós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|reikningur}}, {{t-|is|nóta|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|conto|m}}, {{t+|it|fattura|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|勘定|tr=かんじょう, kanjō}}, {{t-|ja|請求書|tr=せいきゅうしょ, seikyūsho|sc=Jpan}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|сметка|f|tr=smétka}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|faktura|f}}, {{t+|pl|rachunek|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conta}}, {{t+|pt|fatura}}
* {{trreq|ro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|счёт|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=sčot}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|factura|f}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|faktura|c}}, {{t+|sv|nota|c}}, {{t+|sv|räkning|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|advertisement}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|афиш|m}}, {{t+|bg|програма|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|juliste}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tract|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|διαφήμιση|f|tr=diafímisi}}, {{t+|el|αφίσα|f|tr=afísa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[poster]] {{m}}, [[cartello]] [[pubblicitario]] {{m}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|affisch|c}}, {{t+|sv|anslag|n}}, {{t+|sv|program|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bill of exchange}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|směnka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vekseli}}
* French: {{t+|fr|facture|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|συναλλαγματική|f|tr=synallagmatikí}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|váltó}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|cambiale|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|меница|f|tr=ménica}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вексель|m|sc=Cyrl|tr=véksel’}}, {{t+|ru|расписка|f|sc=Cyrl|tr=raspíska}}
* Swahili: {{t-|sw|mswada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|sedel|c}}, {{t+|sv|växel|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[factura]] (1); [[nota]], [[declaration]] (2); [[projecto de lege]], bill (3)
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[fatura]] {{f}}, [[conta]] {{f}}; [[nota]] {{f}}, [[declaração]] {{f}} (2); [[projeto de lei]] {{m}} (3)
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[nota]], [[cuenta]] {{f}} (1), [[declaración]] {{f}} (2), [[w:es:proposición de ley|proposición de ley]] or [[w:es:proyecto de ley|proyecto de ley]] (3)
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from bill (noun)}}
* [[bill of adventure]]
* [[bill of costs]]
* [[bill of credit]]
* [[bill of divorce]]
* [[bill of entry]]
* [[bill of exceptions]]
* [[bill of exchange]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[bill of fare]]
* [[bill of goods]]
* [[bill of health]]
* [[bill of indictment]]
* [[bill of lading]]
* [[bill of mortality]]
* [[bill of pains and penalties]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[bill of parcels]]
* [[bill of particulars]]
* [[bill of rights]]
* [[bill of sale]]
* [[bill of sight]]
* [[bill of store]]
* [[bill of sufferance]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[bills payable]]
* [[bills receivable]]
* [[Treasury bill]]
* [[T-bill]]
* [[true bill]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[advertise]] by a bill or [[public]] [[notice]].
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[charge]]; to send a bill to.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to advertise by a bill}} [[placard]]
* {{sense|to charge}} [[charge]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to advertise by a bill}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разгласявам}}, {{t+|bg|афиширам}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|affischera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to charge or enter in a bill}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|представям сметка}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|in rekening brengen}}, {{t-|nl|factureren}}, {{t+|nl|rekenen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|laskuttaa}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|εκδίδω λογαριασμό|tr=ekdído logariasmó}}, {{t-|el|εκδίδω τιμολόγιο|tr=ekdído timológio}}, {{t-|el|αποστέλλω λογαριασμό|tr=apostéllo logariasmó}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mwsada}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|debitera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Weapons]]

===Etymology 4===

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The bell, or boom, of the [[bittern]].
#* Wordsworth
#*: The bittern's hollow '''bill''' was heard.

[[am:bill]]
[[de:bill]]
[[et:bill]]
[[el:bill]]
[[es:bill]]
[[fa:bill]]
[[fr:bill]]
[[gl:bill]]
[[ko:bill]]
[[hr:bill]]
[[io:bill]]
[[it:bill]]
[[kn:bill]]
[[kk:bill]]
[[sw:bill]]
[[ku:bill]]
[[lt:bill]]
[[li:bill]]
[[hu:bill]]
[[mg:bill]]
[[ml:bill]]
[[my:bill]]
[[fj:bill]]
[[nl:bill]]
[[ja:bill]]
[[pl:bill]]
[[ru:bill]]
[[simple:bill]]
[[fi:bill]]
[[sv:bill]]
[[ta:bill]]
[[te:bill]]
[[tr:bill]]
[[vi:bill]]
[[zh:bill]]