==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=bind}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/baɪnd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bind.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪnd}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|binden|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|bindan|lang=en}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*bindaną}} (compare West Frisian {{term|bine|lang=fy}}, Dutch {{term|binden|lang=nl}}, Low German {{term|binnen|lang=nds}}, German {{term|binden|lang=de}}, Danish {{term|binde|lang=da}}), from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*bʰendʰ-||to tie}} (compare Welsh {{term|benn||cart|lang=cy}}, Latin {{term/t|la|offendīx||knot, band}}, Lithuanian {{term|beñdras||partner|lang=lt}}, Albanian {{term|bend||servant,henchman|lang=sq}}, {{term|bind||to convince, persuade, tame|lang=sq}}, Ancient Greek {{term|πεῖσμα|tr=peisma||cable, rope|lang=grc}}, Sanskrit {{term|बध्नाति|tr=badhnāti|lang=sa}}).

====Verb====
{{en-verb|binds|binding|bound|'''[[bound]]''' ''or rarely'' '''[[bounden]]'''}}

# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To tie; to confine by any [[ligature]].
#* {{rfdate}} {{w|Shakespeare}}
#*: They that reap must sheaf and '''bind'''.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To cohere or stick together in a mass.
#: ''Just to make the cheese more '''binding'''
#* {{rfdate}} {{w|Mortimer}}
#*: clay '''binds''' by heat.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To be restrained from motion, or from customary or natural action, as by friction.
#: ''I wish I knew why the sewing machine '''binds''' up after I use it for a while.''
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To exert a binding or restraining influence.
#: These are the ties that '''bind'''.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[tie]] or [[fasten]] tightly together, with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.
#: ''to '''bind''' grain in bundles; to '''bind''' a prisoner.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To confine, restrain, or hold by physical force or influence of any kind.
#: ''Gravity '''binds''' the planets to the sun.''
#: ''Frost '''binds''' the earth.''
#* {{rfdate}} Job xxviii. 11.
#*: He '''bindeth''' the floods from overflowing.
#* {{rfdate}} Luke xiii. 16.
#*: Whom Satan hath '''bound''', lo, these eighteen years.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[couple]].
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} To oblige, restrain, or hold, by authority, law, duty, promise, vow, affection, or other social tie.
#: ''to '''bind''' the conscience; to '''bind''' by kindness; '''bound''' by affection; commerce '''binds''' nations to each other.''
#* {{rfdate}} {{w|Milton}}
#*: Who made our laws to '''bind''' us, not himself.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} To put (a person) under definite legal obligations, especially, under the obligation of a bond or covenant.
# {{context|legal|lang=en}} To place under legal obligation to serve.
#: ''to '''bind''' an apprentice; '''bound''' out to service''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To protect or strengthen by applying a band or binding, as the edge of a carpet or garment.
# {{context|transitive|archaic|lang=en}} To make fast (a thing) about or upon something, as by tying; to encircle with something.
#: ''to '''bind''' a belt about one''
#: ''to '''bind''' a compress upon a wound.''
# {{context|transitive|archaic|lang=en}} To cover, as with a bandage.
#: ''to '''bind''' up a wound.''
# {{context|transitive|archaic|lang=en}} To prevent or restrain from customary or natural action.
#: ''certain drugs '''bind''' the bowels.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To put together in a cover, as of books.
#: ''The three novels were '''bound''' together.''
# {{context|transitive|computing|lang=en}} To associate an [[identifier]] with a value; to associate a variable name, method name, etc. with the content of a storage location.
#* '''2008''', Bryan O'Sullivan, John Goerzen, Donald Bruce Stewart, ''Real World Haskell'' (page 33)
#*: We '''bind''' the variable <code>n</code> to the value <code>2</code>, and <code>xs</code> to <code>"abcd"</code>.
#* '''2009''', Robert Pickering, ''Beginning F#'' (page 123)
#*: You can '''bind''' an identifier to an object of a derived type, as you did earlier when you bound a string to an identifier of type <code>obj</code>{{...}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|''transitive'' tie or fasten together}} [[fetter]], [[make fast]], [[tie]], [[fasten]], [[restrain]]
* {{sense|''transitive'' cover with a bandage}} [[bandage]], [[dress]]
* {{sense|''transitive'' oblige}} [[restrain]], [[restrict]], [[obligate]]
* {{sense|''transitive, legal'' put under legal obligation}}
* {{sense|''transitive, legal'' place under obligation to serve}} [[indenture]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[bind over]] - to put under bonds to do something, as to appear at court, to keep the peace, etc.
* [[bind to]] - to contract; as, to bind one's self to a wife.
* [[bind up in]] - to cause to be wholly engrossed with; to absorb in.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|''transitive'' connect}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ربط|tr=rabaṭa}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|вязаць|tr=vjazác’|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|свързвам}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|包紮|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|包扎|tr=bāozhā, bāozā|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|捆|tr=kǔn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|綁|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|绑|tr=bǎng|sc=Hani}}
* Crimean Tatar: [[bint#Crimean Tatar|bint]]
* Czech: [[vázat]] {{qualifier|by a promise}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|binden}}, {{t+|nl|verbinden}}, {{t+|nl|koppelen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ligi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sitoa}}, {{t+|fi|yhdistää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lier}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|leâ}}
* German: {{t+|de|verbinden}}, {{t|de|konnektieren}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|összeköt}}
* Ido: {{t|io|bindar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|ikat}}, {{t|id|sambung}}, {{t|id|hubung}}
* Italian: {{t|it|legare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|繋ぐ|tr=[[つなぐ]], tsunagu}}, {{t|ja|繋げる|tr=[[つなげる]], tsunageru}}, {{t|ja|縛る|tr=しばる, shibaru}}, {{t|ja|結ぶ|tr=むすぶ, musubu}}
* Latin: {{t|la|cōnectō}}, {{t+|la|iungō}}, {{t|la|nectō}}, {{t+|la|teneo}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|binde}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|вѧсти|tr=vęsti|sc=Cyrs}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|conectar}}, {{t+|pt|juntar}}, {{t+|pt|copular}}, {{t+|pt|ligar}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|cupla}}, {{t|ro|conecta}}, {{t|ro|lega}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вязать|impf|tr=vjazátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|связывать|impf|tr=svjázyvatʹ}}, {{t+|ru|связать|pf|tr=svjazátʹ}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|cuibhrich}}, {{t|gd|naisg}}, {{qualifier|sheaves}} {{t|gd|sguab}}
* Spanish: [[atar]] (tie), [[empastar]] (books)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|bağlamak}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|kết hợp}}, {{t+|vi|liên kết}}, {{t+|vi|nối}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''transitive'' couple}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|връзвам}}, {{t|bg|приързвам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|spojit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sitoa}}, {{t+|fi|kytkeä}}
* German: {{t+|de|verbinden}}
* Italian: {{t|it|connettere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вязать|impf|tr=vjazátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|связывать|impf|tr=svjázyvatʹ}}, {{t+|ru|связать|pf|tr=svjazátʹ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|birleştirmek}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|ghép cặp}}, {{t|vi|ghép đôi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|''transitive'' put together in a cover, as of books}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|подвързвам}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|svázat}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|bindi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sitoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|relier}}
* German: {{qualifier|z.B. ein Buch}} {{t+|de|binden}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βιβλιοδετώ|tr=vivliodetó|sc=Grek}}
* Italian: {{t|it|rilegare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encapar}}, {{t+|pt|encadernar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|переплета́ть|impf|tr=perepletátʹ}}, {{t+|ru|переплести́|pf|tr=pereplestí}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ciltlemek}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|buộc}}, {{t+|vi|cột}}, {{t+|vi|trói}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[bindweed]]

===Etymology 2===
From the above verb.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# That which binds or ties.
# A [[troublesome]] situation; a [[problem]]; a [[predicament]] or [[quandary]].
# Any twining or climbing plant or stem, especially a [[hop]] vine; a [[bine]].
# {{context|music|lang=en}} A [[ligature]] or [[tie]] for grouping notes.
# {{context|chess|lang=en}} A strong grip or [[stranglehold]] on a position that is difficult for the opponent to break.
#: ''the Maróczy '''Bind'''''

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:difficult situation]]

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* [[INBD#English|INBD]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Albanian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sqj-pro|sq}} {{term/t|sqj-pro|*bind-}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sq}} {{term/t|ine-pro|*bʰeydʰ-}} 'to persuade, encourage; constrain'. Cognate to Ancient Greek {{term|πείθω||to persuade, convince|lang=grc}}<ref> Albanische Etymologien (Untersuchungen zum albanischen Erbwortschatz), Bardhyl Demiraj, Leiden Studies in Indo-European 7; Amsterdam - Atlanta 1997, p.101</ref>.

===Verb===
{{sq-verb|binda|bindur}}

# to [[convince]], [[persuade]], [[amaze]]
# a [[wonder]]

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|sq|be}}
* {{l|sq|përbindësh}}

===References===
<references/>

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-bind.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{rhymes|ɪnt|lang=nl}}

===Verb===
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|binden}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|binden}}

----

==Norwegian==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=no}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɪn/|lang=no}}
* {{rhymes|ɪn|lang=no}}

===Noun===
{{no-noun|g=n}}

# [[volume]] (a single book of a publication)
# [[sling]] (a kind of hanging bandage)
#: ''Han går med armen i '''bind'''''
# [[sanitary napkin]]

====Inflection====
{{no-noun-infl|nb-class=n1|nn-class=n1}}

----

==Swedish==

===Verb===
{{head|sv|verb form}}

# {{sv-verb-form-imp|binda}}

----

==Wolof==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Wo-bind.ogg|Audio|lang=wo}}

===Verb===
{{head|wo|verb}}

# to write
#: Jàngalekat jaa ngiy bind.
#: The teacher (here) is writing.

[[cs:bind]]
[[et:bind]]
[[el:bind]]
[[es:bind]]
[[eo:bind]]
[[eu:bind]]
[[fa:bind]]
[[fr:bind]]
[[gl:bind]]
[[ko:bind]]
[[hy:bind]]
[[hr:bind]]
[[io:bind]]
[[id:bind]]
[[it:bind]]
[[kn:bind]]
[[ku:bind]]
[[ky:bind]]
[[li:bind]]
[[hu:bind]]
[[mg:bind]]
[[ml:bind]]
[[my:bind]]
[[nl:bind]]
[[ja:bind]]
[[pl:bind]]
[[pt:bind]]
[[ro:bind]]
[[ru:bind]]
[[sm:bind]]
[[sq:bind]]
[[simple:bind]]
[[fi:bind]]
[[sv:bind]]
[[tl:bind]]
[[ta:bind]]
[[tt:bind]]
[[te:bind]]
[[chr:bind]]
[[uk:bind]]
[[vi:bind]]
[[wo:bind]]
[[zh:bind]]