{{see|Bit}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|news|prepared|support|823|bit|Indian|produce|drawn}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|bĭt}}, {{IPA|/bɪt/}}, {{SAMPA|/bIt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-bit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪt|-ɪt]]

===Etymology 1===
Likely to be from same source as Old English (Anglo-Saxon) ''[[bita]]'' and ''[[bite#Old English|bite]]'', or from those words themselves; the monetary sense derives from Caribbean or South US practice of cutting Spanish dollars into eighths.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A piece of metal placed in a horse's mouth and connected to reins to direct the animal.
# A rotary cutting tool fitted to a drill, used to make holes.
# An eighth of a dollar.  Note that there is no coin minted worth 12.5 cents.
#:''A [[quarter]] is two bits.''
# {{context|dated|UK}} A coin of a specified value.
#:''A threepenny '''bit'''.''
# A small piece of something.
#:''There were '''bits''' of paper all over the floor.''
# A portion of something.
#:''I'd like a big '''bit''' of cake, please.''
# {{slang}} A prison sentence.
# An excerpt of material from a standup comedian's repertoire.

=====Synonyms=====
* (''coin''): [[coin]], [[piece]]
* (''small piece''): [[morsel]] (''of food''), [[piece]], [[scrap]]
* (''portion''): [[portion]], [[share]], [[segment]]
* (''horse equipment''): [[snaffle]], [[pelham]], [[kimberwicke]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|metal in horse's mouth}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|bit]] {{n}}
*German: [[Gebiß]] {{n}}, [[Mundstück]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[morso]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[bocado]] {{m}}, [[bocal]] {{m}}, [[morso]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[freio]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Brazil}}
*Russian: [[удила]] (udilá) ''pl''
*Spanish: [[bocado]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rotary cutting tool}}
*Dutch: bit {{m}}
*German: [[Bohrer]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[broca]] {{f}}, [[pua]] {{f}}, [[verruma]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[сверло]] (sv'erló) {{n}}
*Spanish: [[broca]] {{f}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[బిట్టు]] (biTTu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|eighth of a dollar}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

'''coin'''
''See'' '''[[coin]]'''

{{trans-top|small piece}}
*Dutch: [[beetje]], [[hapje]] (of food)
*Finnish: [[pala]], [[palanen]]
*French: petit [[morceau]] {{m}}, [[peu]] {{m}}
*German: [[Bißchen]] {{n}}, [[Wenig]] {{n}}, [[Bissen]] {{n}}, [[Stück]] {{n}}, [[Stückchen]] {{n}}, [[Happen#German|Happen]] {{m}} (''of food'')
*Italian: [[poco]] {{m}}, [[poca]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[ちょっと]] (chotto) / [[少々]] ([[しょうしょう]], shōshō) / [[少し]] ([[すこし]], sukoshi)
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[bocado]] {{m}}, [[pedaço]] {{m}}, [[porção]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[кусок]] (kusók) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[košček]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|bit]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ముక్క]] (mukka), [[తుంపు]] (tuMpu), [[తునక]] (tunaka)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|portion}}
*Portuguese: [[bocado]] {{m}}, [[pedaço]] {{m}}, [[porção]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[кусок]] (kusók) {{m}}
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|bit]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[gweskenn]] {{f}} -où (1), un [[tamm]]ig (4)
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[мундщук]] {{m}} (1), [[свредел]] {{m}} (2), [[късче]] {{n}} (4)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sedikit]] (4)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[morso]] (1), [[puncta]] (2), [[pauco]], [[poco]], [[morsello]] (4)

====Verb====
'''bit'''

# {{simple past of|bite}}
#:''Your dog '''bit''' me!''

=====Derived terms=====
*[[a bit]]<!--adverb: as in "I like it a bit, but not much"-->
*[[bit-banger]]
*[[bit by bit]]
*[[bit on the side]]
*[[bit of rough]]
*[[bit part]]
*[[bits and bobs]]
*[[bits and pieces]]
*[[bitty]]
*[[brace and bit]]
*[[champ at the bit]]<!--not "chomp"-->
*[[do one's bit]]
*[[fall to bits]]
*[[itty-bitty]]
*[[not a bit]], [[not one bit]]
*[[quite a bit]]
*[[snakebit]]
*[[two-bit]]

===Etymology 2===
Coined by [[w:John Tukey|John Tukey]] in 1946 as an abbreviation of '''[[binary digit]]''', probably influenced by connotations of “small portion”.[http://www.princeton.edu/pr/news/98/q2/0602-honorary.html][http://www.thocp.net/timeline/1944.htm#1946]  Compare '''[[byte]]''' and '''[[nybble]]'''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|mathematics|computing}} A [[binary digit]], generally represented as a 1 or 0.
# {{computing}} The smallest unit of storage in a [[digital]] [[computer]], consisting of a binary digit.
# {{context|information theory|cryptography}} Any [[datum]] that may take on one of exactly two values.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|binary digit}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|bit]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[bitti]]
*French: [[#French|bit]] {{m}}
*German: [[Bit]] {{n}}
*Hebrew: [[ביט]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*{{trreq|Icelandic}}
*Japanese: [[ビット]] (bitto)
*Latvian: [[bits]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[бит]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|smallest unit of storage}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|bit]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[bitti]]
*German: [[Bit]] {{n}}
*Latvian [[bits]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[ビット]] (bitto)
*Portuguese: [[#Portuguese|bit]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|bit]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|datum that may take on one of exactly two values}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|bit]] {{m}}
*German: [[Bit]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[#Portuguese|bit]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[бит]] {{m}} (5,6)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: bit (5,6)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: bit (5,6)

=====Derived terms=====
*[[bit-depth]]
*[[bitwise]]
*[[hidden bit]]
*[[high-order bit]]
*[[least significant bit]]
*[[most significant bit]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:Horse tack]]
[[Category:Portmanteaus]]

----

==Croatian==

===Noun===
'''bit'''

# (''gen.'') [[essence]].

----

==Czech==

===Etymology 1===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
'''bit'''

# {{computing|lang=cs}} bit

=====Declension=====
{{cs-noun|bit|bitu|bitu|bit|bite|bitu|bitem|bity|bitů|bitům|bity|bity|bitech|bity}}

===Etymology 2===
Common Slavic ''[[biti]]''

====Verb====
'''bit'''

# to [[beat]]

[[Category:Czech verbs]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''bit''' {{n}}

# bit (''for a horse'')
# bit (''rotary cutting tool'')
# bit (''binary digit'')
# bit (''unit of storage'')
# bit (''datum with two possible values'')

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m}}

# [[#English|bit]] (''binary digit'')

----

==Swedish==

{{sv-noun|gender=Common|bit|biten|bitar|bitarna|bits|bitens|bitars|bitarnas}}

===Noun===
'''bit'''

# bit (''small piece'')
# bit (''portion'')
# bit (''binary digit'')
# bit (''unit of storage'')

===Verb===
'''bit'''

# ''imperative of'' '''[[bita]]'''

===See also===
*[[pusselbit]]
*[[sockerbit]]

[[Category:Swedish verb forms]]

----

==Turkish==

===Verb===
'''bit'''

# [[end]]

[[Category:Computing]]
[[Category:Cryptography]]
[[Category:Mathematics]]
[[Category:Turkish verb forms]]

[[ar:bit]]
[[cs:bit]]
[[de:bit]]
[[et:bit]]
[[el:bit]]
[[es:bit]]
[[fa:bit]]
[[fr:bit]]
[[hy:bit]]
[[io:bit]]
[[it:bit]]
[[lt:bit]]
[[hu:bit]]
[[pl:bit]]
[[pt:bit]]
[[ru:bit]]
[[simple:bit]]
[[fi:bit]]
[[sv:bit]]
[[ta:bit]]
[[te:bit]]
[[vi:bit]]
[[tr:bit]]
[[vo:bit]]
[[zh:bit]]