==English==

===Etymology===

{{etyl|enm}} {{term|biche}}, {{term|bicche}}, {{etyl|ang}} {{term|bicce}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bĭch}}, {{IPA|/bɪtʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/bItS/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bitch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪtʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{context|usually|jocular|or|archaic}} A [[female]] [[dog]] or other [[canine]]. In particular one who has recently had [[puppy|puppies]].
#: ''My '''bitch''' just had puppies: they're so cute!''
# {{context|vulgar|derogatory}} A female who is [[malicious]], [[spiteful]], [[unbearable]], [[intrusive]], or [[obnoxious]].
#: ''Ann gossiped about me and mocked my work; sometimes she can be a real  '''bitch'''!''
#* '''1913''', D. H. Lawrence, ''Sons and Lovers'', I. iv. 60:
#*: 'Look at the children, you nasty little '''bitch'''!' he sneered.
# {{context|vulgar|derogatory}} By extension, a man with any of these qualities, especially a gay man (suggesting his behavior is womanly) or a man who is dishonorable, cowardly, spineless, whiny, or otherwise behaves in a manner unbecoming a man.
#* [[w:Glenn Close|Glenn Close]] in the [[movie]] ''[[w:The Jagged Edge|The Jagged Edge]]'':
#*: You called me a '''bitch''', didn’t you?
# {{context|jocular|slang|used with a [[possessive pronoun]]|usually between women, between gay men and between women and gay men}} Friend.
#: ''What’s up, my '''bitch'''?''
#: ''How my '''bitches''' been doin'?''
# An angry retort directed to a close buddy.
#: ''Will you stop this, my '''bitch'''??''
# A person in an unfavorable, undesirable position.
#: ''When we pile into the car, I tend to be a '''bitch''', stuck in the middle of the back seats.''
# A person who is made to adopt a submissive role in a relationship.
#: ''Do you have to ask your girl before you do everything? You must be the '''bitch''' in the relationship.''
#* '''1999''' September 23, Chris Sheridan, “This House Is Freakin’ Sweet”, “Peter, Peter, Caviar Eater”, ''Family Guy'', season 2, episode 1, Fox Broadcasting Company
#*: Now that you're stinking rich, we'd gladly be your '''bitch'''.
# {{slang}} A [[complaint]].
# {{slang|usually only used in the singular}} A difficult or confounding [[problem]].
#: ''Question 5 was a real '''bitch''', don’t you think?''
#: ''That's a '''bitch''' of a question.'' (Or, ''a '''bitch''' of a problem'', etc.)
# {{slang}} A [[queen]] (the [[playing card]])

====Usage notes====
* The noun {{term|bitch}} is sometimes diffused by intentional colloquial overuse or misuse. In print, the noun referring to a person is demeaning and sometimes implies that the person being insulted is subservient.
* In professional circles, the noun {{term|bitch}} is sometimes used to refer to intelligent and ambitious women with a high level of sex-appeal who use those qualities to achieve their goals.
* In the sense of an aggressive woman, this term is generally derogatory when used by men (and often when used by women), but, it is also used by some women to refer to themselves positively in a form of [[reclamation]]. It is important to note that many people do not believe that "bitch" is able to be reclaimed, because of its continued pejorative usage. Thus, the term is both potentially liberatory while also being controversial.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|female dog, etc}} [[female]] (''when the species is specified or implied'')
* {{sense|malicious, etc, woman}} [[cow]]
* {{sense|malicious, etc, man}} [[bastard]]
* {{sense|jocular slang, one's friend}}
* {{sense|person in an unfavorable, undesirable position}}
* {{sense|person in a relationship who is made to adopt a submissive role}} [[doormat]]
* {{sense|a complaint}} [[gripe]], [[grumble]], [[kvetch]], [[moan]], [[whinge]]
* {{sense|difficult or confounding problem}} [[toughie]], [[stinker]], [[pain in the ass]]
* {{sense|to talk about}}

====Derived terms====
<!--no: these are from "bitchy"
* [[bitchier]]
* [[bitchiest]]
* [[bitchily]]
* [[bitchiness]]
-->
* [[bitch fight]]
* [[bitching]]<!--noun-->
* [[bitch slap]]
* [[bitch switch]]
* [[bitchy]]
* [[bull-bitch]]
* [[flip a bitch]]
* [[life's a bitch]]
* [[payback is a bitch]], [[payback's a bitch]]
* [[son of a bitch]], [[sonofabitch]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|female canine}}
* Aramaic:
*: Syriac: [[ܟܠܒܬܐ]] (kalbtā’) {{f}}
*: Hebrew: [[כלבתא]] (kalbtā’) {{f}}
* Armenian: [[քած]] (qats)
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|kuja|f}}
* [[Breton]]: [[kiez]] {{f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|кучка|f|tr=kučka|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Central Atlas Tamazight]]: [[ⵜⴰⵢⴷⵉⵜ]] (taydit) {{f}}
* Chinese: [[母狗]] (mǔgǒu)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|fena|f}}
* Danish: [[tæve]] (female dog)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|teef|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|hundino|xs=Esperanto}} (dog), {{t-|eo|lupino|xs=Esperanto}} (wolf), {{t-|eo|vulpino|xs=Esperanto}} (fox)
* [[Ewe]]: [[avunɔ]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|narttu}}
* French: [[chienne]] (dog), [[louve]] (wolf), [[renarde]] (fox) {{f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Hündin|f}}, {{t+|de|Wölfin|f}}, {{t+|de|Füchsin|f}}, {{t+|de|Kojotin|f}}, {{t+|de|Schakalin|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκύλα|f|tr=skila|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[כלבה]] (kalba) {{f}}
* Hindi: [[कुत्तियाँ]] {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szuka}}, {{t+|hu|nőstény}}
* [[Interlingua]]: {{t-|ia|can|f|xs=Interlingua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cagna|f}}
* Japanese: [[雌犬]] (めすいぬ, mesuinu),  {{t|ja|いけいけ|tr=ikeike|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[암캐]] (amkae)
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|kuce|f|xs=Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|kalė|f|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[кучка]] (kučka) {{f}}
* [[Malayalam]]: [[കൂത്തിപ്പട്ടി]] (kuːθːpːaʈːi)
* Maltese: [[kelba]] {{f}}
* Norwegian: [[tispe]] {{f}}
* [[Novial]]: [[hunda]]
* [[Occitan]]: [[canha]] {{f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|suka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|cadela|f}}, {{t+|pt|cachorra|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|căţea|f}},  {{t|ro|căţele|f|p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сука|f|tr=súka|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[cù#Scottish Gaelic|cù]] [[boireann]] {{m}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|psica|f}}, {{t-|sr|kučka|f}}, {{t-|sr|suka|f}}, {{t-|sr|kuja|f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|suka|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|psica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|perra|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tik|c}}, {{t+|sv|hynda}}
* [[Taos]]: [[kwíanena]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఆడకుక్క]] (aaDakukka)
* [[Ugaritic]]: [[klbt]] {{f}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t-|vo|jidog|xs=Volapük}}, {{t-|vo|jilup|xs=Volapük}}, {{t+|vo|jirenar|xs=Volapük}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|gast|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spiteful woman}}
* Armenian: [[քած]] (qats)
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|kučka|f}}
* [[Breton]]: [[louskenn]] {{f}}, [[liboudenn]] {{f}}
* Bulgarian: [[кучка]] (kučka) {{f}}, [[курва]] (kurva) {{f}}, развратница (razvratnica) {{f}}
* Chinese: [[賤人]], [[贱人]] (jiànrén); [[婊]][[子]] (biǎozi); [[娼婦]], [[娼妇]] (chāngfù)
* Danish: {{t+|da|kælling}}
* Dutch: [[slet]] {{f}}, bitch {{f}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|aĉulino|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|fiulino|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|narttu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chienne|f}}, {{t+|fr|chipie|f}}, {{t+|fr|garce|f}}, {{t+|fr|salope|f}}, {{t+|fr|rosse|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schlampe|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκύλα|f|tr=skíla|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: [[כלבה]] (kalba) {{f}}
* Hungarian: [[kurva]], [[luvnya]], [[lotyó]], [[ribanc]], [[ribi]], [[ringyó]], [[szajha]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[puta]], [[putana]] {{f}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|stronza|f}}, {{t+|it|troia|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[すべた]] (subeta),  {{t|ja|じゃじゃ馬|tr=jajauma|sc=Jpan}},  {{t|ja|阿婆擦れ|tr=abazure|sc=Jpan}} (''various spellings''),  {{t+|ja|尼|tr=ama|sc=Jpan}} (''various spellings'')
* Latvian: [[kuce]] {{f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|kalė|f|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Maltese: [[qaħba]] {{f}}
* Norwegian: [[tispe]] {{f}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[chispa]] {{f}}, [[solharda]] {{f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|suka|f}}, {{t+|pl|dziwka|f}}, {{t+|pl|kurwa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|puta|f}}, {{t-|pt|vagabunda|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|căţea|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сука|f|tr=súka|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|стерва|f|tr=stérva|sc=Cyrl}},  {{t|ru|мегера|f|tr=megéra|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[galla]] {{f}}, [[strìopach]] {{f}}, [[nighean na galla]] {{f}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|suka|f}}, {{t-|sk|kurva|f}}
* Spanish: [[puta]] {{f}}, [[culeda]] {{f}}, [[ramera]] {{f}}, [[arpía]] {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|slyna|c}}, {{t+|sv|subba|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spiteful man, especially a gay man}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|poot|m}}
* Russian: [[жопочник]] (žópočnik) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|puto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|jocular slang: one's friend}}
* Russian: {{t-|ru|шурак|m|tr=šurák|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|кореш|m|tr=kóreš|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person in an unfavorable, undesirable position}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|person in relationship who is made to adopt a submissive role}}
* Dutch: bitch {{m}} & {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a complaint}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|difficult or confounding problem}}
* French: {{t+|fr|casse-tête|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====

* Weisenberg, Michael (2000) ''[http://www.poker1.com/mcu/pokerdictionary/mculib_dictionary_info.asp The Official Dictionary of Poker].''  MGI/Mike Caro University.  ISBN 978-1880069523

===Verb===
{{en-verb|bitch|es}}

# {{transitive|with “about”}} To make [[derogatory]] comments (about a person).
#: ''Look, I saw you '''bitching''' about me yesterday, I know how you feel: why can't you say it to my face?''
# {{transitive|with “about”}} To [[criticize]] (something) spitefully, often for the sake of complaining rather than in order to have the problem corrected.
#: ''All you ever do is '''bitch''' about the food I cook for you!''
<!--same as above sense: #To [[grumble]].-->
<!--move to "bitch up" #To [[botch]] or [[bungle]].
#: ''You really '''bitched''' up this time!''-->

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|make derogatory comments (about someone)}} [[badmouth]], [[slag off]] {{qualifier|UK}}, [[snipe]] at
* {{sense|complain spitefully (about something)}} [[gripe]] about/at, [[grumble]] about/at, [[kvetch]] about/at, [[moan]] about/at, [[piss and moan]] about/at, [[sniff at]], [[whine]] about/at, [[whinge]] about/at
* See also [[Wikisaurus:complain]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|make derogatory comments (about someone)}}
* Chinese: [[说某人坏话]] (shōumǒurénhuàihuà)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|complain (about something) spitefully}}
* [[Breton]]: [[klemm]], [[soroc'hal]], [[grozmolat]]
* Finnish: [[purnata]], [[vittuilla]] (''vulgar'')
* French: {{t+|fr|chialer}}, {{t+|fr|pester}}, {{t+|fr|râler}}, {{t+|fr|rouspéter}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[querelar]], [[lamentar]]
* Polish: [[psioczyć]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: [[queixar]]-[[se]], [[reclamar]], [[lamentar]](-[[se]]), [[lamuriar]](-[[se]]), [[choramingar]]
* Slovak: [[frfľať]], [[sťažovať sa]]
* Spanish: [[quejar]](se), [[requejar]](se)
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gnälla}}, {{t+|sv|klaga}}, {{t+|sv|tjafsa}}
* Turkish: [[deneme]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Dogs]]
[[Category:Vulgarities]]

[[bg:bitch]]
[[de:bitch]]
[[fa:bitch]]
[[fr:bitch]]
[[gd:bitch]]
[[ko:bitch]]
[[hi:bitch]]
[[io:bitch]]
[[it:bitch]]
[[hu:bitch]]
[[pl:bitch]]
[[pt:bitch]]
[[ru:bitch]]
[[simple:bitch]]
[[fi:bitch]]
[[ta:bitch]]
[[te:bitch]]
[[th:bitch]]
[[tr:bitch]]
[[vi:bitch]]
[[zh:bitch]]