==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{compound|black|fish|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈblakfɪʃ/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es|blackfish}}

# {{lb|en|chiefly|_|Scotland}} The [[Atlantic salmon]], ''[[Salmo salar]]'', especially a female after [[spawn]]ing. {{defdate|from 16th c.}}
# Any of various dark-coloured fish of the Old World, especially the [[rudderfish]] ({{taxlink|Centrolophus niger|species|noshow=1}}). {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# A [[pilot whale]], [[genus]] {{taxlink|Globicephalus|genus|noshow=1}} (occasionally also used for various other whales). {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
# {{lb|en|North America}} Either of two dark-coloured fish of the west Atlantic, the [[tautog]] of [[New England]] ({{taxlink|Tautoga onitis|species|noshow=1}}) and the black [[sea bass]] ({{taxlink|Centropristis striata|species|noshow=1}}). {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
# {{lb|en|AU|NZ}} Any of various dark-coloured fishes of Australasia, especially the [[luderick]], {{taxlink|Girella tricuspidata|species|noshow=1}}, and a freshwater fish, {{taxlink|Gadopsis marmoratus|species|noshow=1}}. {{defdate|from 18th c.}}
#* '''1985''', {{w|Peter Carey}}, ''Illywhacker'', Faber and Faber 2003, p. 337:
#*: The creek was reputed to contain '''blackfish''' and Nathan […] arranged the extraordinary collection of American lures he had inherited from an uncle.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|pilot whale}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|upokohue}}, {{t|mi|tukuperu}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|blackfishes|blackfishing|blackfished}}

# {{lb|en|angling}} To go [[fish]]ing for blackfish.
#* '''1975''', Canada. Fisheries and Marine Service, ''Review of Biology and Fisheries for Smaller Cetaceans'' (page 1106)
#*: Earlier (Caldwell and Caldwell 1971a), we concentrated on the '''blackfishing''' at St. Vincent, the fishery with which we were most familiar, and listed known localities of fishing for blackfish and other species in the southern Caribbean.
#* '''1984''', ''Field and Stream'' (volume 89, page xxx)
#*: Long Island Sound, Block Island Sound, Rhode Island Sound, and Narragansett Bay have many spots where '''blackfishing''' is productive year after year.
#* '''2014''', Nick Honachefsky, ''The Jersey Surf Diaries''
#*: '''Blackfishing''' from the beach. I've done my research. Hundreds of shipwrecks line the Jersey coast, and many of them are close enough to reach with a long cast on a dead-low tide. These wrecks hold tautog, porgies, sea bass, flounder.

[[Category:en:Cetaceans]]
[[Category:en:Percoid fish]]
[[Category:en:Salmonids]]
[[Category:en:Serranids]]
[[Category:en:Stromateoid fish]]
[[Category:en:Wrasses]]