==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|[[blanc]] [[mangier]]||white food}}. The pudding evolved from the chicken dish.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/bləˈmɒn(d)ʒ/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/bləˈmɑn(d)ʒ/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A simple [[dessert]] made by cooking sweetened [[milk]] with [[cornstarch]] and [[vanilla]].
#* '''2010''', Kate Jennings, ''Trouble: Evolution of a Radical: Selected Writings 1970-2010'', page 36:
#*: I was a snarler. I prided myself on being a snarler. I would go to great lengths to avoid stereotypical feminine behaviour. I thought that in being outrageous or out of control, which I viewed as synonymous, I was thumbing my nose at the patriarchy. My biggest fear about [[AA]] was that I would lose my edge. Turn into '''[[blancmange]]'''.
# {{lb|en|historical}} A dish, eaten in the Middle Ages, generally consisting of [[chicken]] (or sometimes [[capon]] or [[fish]]), [[milk]] or [[almond milk]], [[rice]]{{,}} and [[sugar]].
#* '''2011''', Annette Hope, ''Londoners' Larder: English Cuisine from Chaucer to the Present'' (ISBN 1780573855):
#*: Chaucer's Cook made '''blancmange''' with the best of them, according to the Prologue to the Tales. There were two versions of this popular dish in Chaucer's day, one made with fish and the other with capon or chicken.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|dessert}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pudink|m}}
* French: {{t+|fr|blanc-manger|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:en:Desserts]]

[[et:blancmange]]
[[io:blancmange]]
[[ku:blancmange]]
[[ml:blancmange]]
[[pl:blancmange]]
[[ru:blancmange]]
[[ta:blancmange]]
[[zh:blancmange]]