==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/blɛs/|lang=en}} {{enPR|blĕs}}
* {{audio|en-us-bless.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛs|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|blessen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|blētsian}}, {{m|ang|blēdsian||to consecrate ''(with blood)''}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*blōþisōną||to sprinkle, mark or hallow with blood}}, from {{m|gem-pro|*blōþą||blood}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*bhlo-to-||to gush, spurt}}, from {{m|ine-pro|*bhol-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*bhlē-dh-}}, {{m|ine-pro|*bhlō(w)-||to thrive, flourish, bloom}}. Cognate with {{etyl|non|-}} {{term|bletza||to bless|lang=non}} (whence {{etyl|is|-}} {{term|blessa|lang=is}}), {{etyl|ang|-}} {{m|ang|blēdan||to bleed}}. More at {{term|bleed|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|blesses|blessing|blest|past2=blessed}}

# To make something [[blessed]]; to confer [[blessing]] upon.
# To make the [[sign of the cross]] upon; to cross (oneself).
#: {{rfquotek|Holinshed}}
# To praise, or glorify; to extol for excellences.
#* Bible, Ps. ciii. 1
#*: Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
# To esteem or account happy; to [[felicitate]].
#* Bible, Jer. iv. 3
#*: The nations shall '''bless''' themselves in him.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To wave; to brandish.
#* Spenser
#*: And burning blades about their heads do '''bless'''.
#* Fairfax
#*: Round his armed head his trenchant blade he '''blest'''.
# {{context|[[Perl]]|_|programming|transitive|lang=en}} {{context|past tense only '''blessed'''|lang=en}} To turn (a [[reference]]) into an [[object]].
# {{context|archaic|lang=en}} To secure, defend, or preserve ''from''.
#* Shakespeare
#*: '''Bless''' me '''from''' marrying a usurer.
#* Milton
#*: to '''bless''' the doors '''from''' nightly harm

=====Antonyms=====
* [[curse]]
* [[condemn]]
* {{sense|programming|lang=en}} [[unbless]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[blessed]]
* [[blessing]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|confer blessing on}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|bekoj}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|بَارَكَ}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|օրհնել|sc=Armn}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|bendicir}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|благославям}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|beneir}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+check|cmn|保佑|tr=bǎoyòu|sc=Hani}},  {{t+check|cmn|佑|tr=yòu|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|požehnat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|velsigne}}, {{qualifier|archaic}} {{t|da|signe}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zegenen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|beni}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|vælsigna}}, {{t|fo|signa}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|siunata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bénir}}
*: Old French: {{t|fro|beneïr}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|benedî}}, {{t|fur|binidî}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|bendicir}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ლოცვა|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|segnen}}, {{qualifier|obsolete}} {{t+|de|benedeien}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ευλογώ|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|ברך|tr=berákh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|megáld}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|blessa}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|benedire}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|恵む|tr=megumu}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|béni}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|seenen}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|velsigne}}, {{t|no|signa}}, {{t|no|blessa}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|błogosławić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|abençoar}}, {{t+|pt|bendizer}}, {{t+|pt|benzer}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|binecuvânta}}, {{t+|ro|blagoslovi}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|benedir}}, {{t|rm|banadir}}, {{t|rm|banadeir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|благословля́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|благослови́ть|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|blagoslòviti}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|blagosloviti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bendecir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|välsigna}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|దీవించు}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kutsamak}}, {{t+|tr|takdis etmek}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|benedir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
An ellipsis for an expression such as {{m|en|bless one's heart|bless your heart}}.

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{context|UK|informal|lang=en}} {{non-gloss definition|Used as an expression of endearment, or (ironically) belittlement.}}
#* '''1998''', "Peter Coffey", ''New Alternative View Of Atomic Structure'' (on Internet newsgroup ''sci.chem'')
#*: Ah '''bless'''! You must be the welcoming committee for anyone who dares express ignorance.
#* '''2000''', "Hellraiser" (on Internet newsgroup ''uk.people.teens'')
#*: oh '''bless'''. *hug* that is not true. nobody here bears a grudge against 13 year old dear or against you.
#* '''2001''', "Will", ''Am I still here?'' (on Internet newsgroup ''uk.religion.pagan'')
#*: Aw '''bless'''... have white chocolate fudge muffin....a new batch.... made them last night after Nigella....

===Anagrams===
* [[slebs#English|slebs]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Interjection===
{{head|is|interjection}}

# [[goodbye]], [[bye]]

[[Category:Icelandic phrasebook]]

[[cy:bless]]
[[et:bless]]
[[el:bless]]
[[es:bless]]
[[fa:bless]]
[[fr:bless]]
[[gl:bless]]
[[ko:bless]]
[[hy:bless]]
[[io:bless]]
[[is:bless]]
[[it:bless]]
[[kn:bless]]
[[ku:bless]]
[[lo:bless]]
[[li:bless]]
[[hu:bless]]
[[mg:bless]]
[[ml:bless]]
[[my:bless]]
[[fj:bless]]
[[nl:bless]]
[[ja:bless]]
[[pl:bless]]
[[ru:bless]]
[[sm:bless]]
[[simple:bless]]
[[fi:bless]]
[[sv:bless]]
[[ta:bless]]
[[te:bless]]
[[th:bless]]
[[chr:bless]]
[[uk:bless]]
[[vi:bless]]
[[zh:bless]]