==Blister blight==

Pathogen: Exobasidium vexans

Blister blight is the most serious disease affecting shoots of tea and is capable of causing enormous crop loss. The disease is endemic to most tea-growing areas of Asia but is not known to occur in Africa or the Americas. Cloudy, wet weather favors infection. Shan or Indian varieties of tea are somewhat resistant to this disease.

==Symptoms==
Small, pinhole-size spots are initially seen on young leaves less than a month old. As the leaves develop, the spots become transparent, larger, and light brown. After about 7 days, the lower leaf surface develops blister-like symptoms, with dark green, water-soaked zones surrounding
the blisters. Following release of the fungal spores, the blister becomes white and velvety. Subsequently the blister turns brown, and young infected stems become bent and distorted and may break off or die.

==Life cycle==
The disease cycle repeats continuously during favourable (wet) conditions, and the spores are readily dispersed by wind. Spores that land on a leaf with adequate moisture will germinate and infect it, producing visible symptoms within 10 days. The fungus can directly penetrate the leaf tissue.  The life cycle of the fungus is 3–4 weeks. Spores from the blisters are carried by the wind to the leaves of other tea plants. The spores are easily killed by drought or bright sunlight. But if a spore lands on a leaf that is coveredwith a film of water or dew, the spore will sprout. It produces a thin thread that grows into the leaf. The thread branches and grows to produce a mass of threads inside the leaf. After about 10 days, you can see the fungus inside the leaf as a chicken-fat colored spot. It eventually causes the leaf to swell into a blister, and grows spores inside the blister.

==Conditions that make the disease worse==

The disease grows best in moderate temperatures (15-20 degrees) and high humidity (90% or more). Especially, the disease becomes most serious in the years with warmer spring and more drizzling rain. . Hot temperature (25-27 degrees or more) stop the fungus from growing. The problem is more serious in tea fields with heavy shade. Also, it is more serious at the bases of the hills, in low poorly-drained areas, and in dense bushy tea plantations rather than in well-ventilated and well-spaced plantations. The disease is more severe and spreads more quickly in tea fields where large amounts of nitrogen have been applied. Probably for this reason, the garden tea is affected more seriously than the hill tea. The midland tea variety is more susceptible than the other varieties. Varieties with large leaves seem to be more affected than varieties with small leaves.



==Plant defence==

Chitinases  catalyze the hydrolysis of β-(1,4)-linkages between N-acetylglucosamine (2-acetamido-2-deoxyglucopyranoside) residues in the linear homopolymer, chitin. They are widely distributed enzymes found in microorganisms, plants and animals. A role for these enzymes in plant defense mechanism against fungal attack is suggested by the absence of chitin in higher plants , its presence in fungal cell walls , and the finding that the plant chitinases inhibit in vitro spore germination and mycelial growth of certain fungi . Thus, these enzymes have the ability to hydrolyze the chitin present in the fungal cell wall and prevent the entry of fungal pathogen into leaf tissue. This enzyme is called b-protein or pathogenesis-related protein .




==Control of disease==

It can be controlled only by the application of  fungicidal sprays. morpholine fungicide tridemorph and three triazole fungicides: bitertanol, hexaconazole and propiconazole, which are used in tea plantations for blister blight control. spraying of tea plants with nickel chloride hexahydrate gave dramatic control of the blister blight disease1, and later certain salts of nickel were shown to possess eradicative control properties when applied in a dilute aqueous solution to tea foliage 3–5 days after inoculation with Exobasidium vexans Massee, the causal pathogen. Very recently it has been observed that, in soils augmented with nickel ammonium sulphate and nickel nitrate, tea plants developed disease resistance.

==Reference==

<a href="http://encyclopedia.jrank.org/Cambridge/entries/073/blister-blight.html">Blister Blight</a>

http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v204/n4964/abs/2041227a0.html

http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6WPC-4K5JVRF-1&_user=1300266&_coverDate=12%2F31%2F2005&_rdoc=1&_fmt=&_orig=search&_sort=d&view=c&_acct=C000052241&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=1300266&md5=c1754b9c50d105f15de5015e3eb338bb

http://www.communityipm.org/docs/Tea_Eco-Guide/11A_Diseases.PDF