==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Blow}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/bləʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"bl@U/}}
*: {{rhymes|əʊ}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/bloʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/'bloU/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-blow.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|blawan|blāwan|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|blēanan}} (cf. German {{term|blähen|lang=de}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|bhle-}} 'to swell, blow up' (compare Latin {{term|flare|lang=la}} 'to blow', Armenian {{term|bełun}} 'fertile').

====Verb====
{{en-verb|blows|blowing|'''[[blew]]''' or (''dialect'') '''[[blowed]]'''|'''[[blown]]''' or (''dialect'') '''[[blowed]]'''}}

# {{intransitive}} To produce an [[air]] [[current]].<!--activity-->
#* '''1606''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''King Lear'', act 3, sc. 2:
#*: "'''Blow''', winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! '''blow'''!"
# {{transitive}} To propel by an [[air]] [[current]].<!--accomplishment/activity-->
#: '''''Blow''' the dust off that book and open it up.''
# {{intransitive}} To be propelled by an [[air]] [[current]].<!--activity-->
#: ''The leaves '''blow''' through the streets in the fall.''
# {{transitive}} To create or shape by blowing; as in ''to blow bubbles'', ''to blow glass''.<!--accomplishment/activity-->
# {{transitive}} To cause to make sound by blowing, as a musical instrument.<!--activity-->
# {{rfd-redundant}} {{transitive}} To play a musical instrument, such as a horn or woodwind.<!--activity-->
#* '''1996''', [[w:Ike Turner|Ike Turner]], interviewed by Terri Gross on "Fresh Air", ''National Public Radio'' (US):
#*: "He was '''blow'''ing saxophone for me."
# {{intransitive}} To make a sound as the result of being blown.
#: ''In the harbor, the ships' horns '''blew'''.''
# {{intransitive|of a [[cetacean]]}} To [[exhale]] [[visibly]] through the [[spout]] the [[seawater]] which it has taken in while [[feeding]].<!--activity-->
#: ''There's nothing more thrilling to the whale watcher than to see a whale surface and '''blow'''.''
#: ''There she '''blows'''! (i.e. "I see a whale spouting!")''
# {{intransitive}} To [[explode]].<!--achievement-->
#: ''Get away from that burning gas tank!  It's about to '''blow'''!''
# {{transitive|with "up"|or|with prep phrase headed by "to"}} To cause to explode, shatter, or be utterly destroyed.<!--achievement-->
#: ''The demolition squad neatly '''blew''' the old hotel up.''
#: ''The aerosol can was '''blown''' to bits.''
# {{transitive}} To cause sudden destruction of.<!--achievement-->
#: ''He '''blew''' the tires and the engine.''
# {{intransitive}} To suddenly fail destructively.<!--achievement-->
#: ''He tried to sprint, but his ligaments '''blew''' and he was barely able to walk to the finish line.''
# {{rfd-redundant}} {{transitive}} To [[destroy]] (an [[electric]] [[component]]) by passing excessive [[electric current]] through it.<!--achievement-->
#: ''The TV shorted out and '''blew''' its fuse.''
# {{rfd-redundant}} {{intransitive|of an electric component}} To be destroyed by such a current.<!--achievement-->
#: ''When I turned the lamp on, its bulb '''blew'''.''
#: ''Fuses are designed to '''blow''' in the event of a short circuit.''
# {{intransitive|slang}} To be very [[undesirable]] (see also [[suck]]).<!--state-->
#: ''This '''blows'''!''
# {{transitive|slang}} To recklessly [[squander]].<!--accomplishment/activity-->
#: ''I managed to '''blow''' $1000 at blackjack in under an hour.''
#: ''I '''blew''' $35 thou on a car.''
#: ''We '''blew''' an opportunity to get benign corporate sponsorship.''
# {{transitive|vulgar}} To [[fellate]].<!--accomplishment/activity-->
#: ''Who did you have to '''blow''' to get those backstage passes?''
# {{transitive}} To [[leave]].<!--accomplishment/achievement-->
#: ''Let's '''blow''' this joint.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''blow'' (verb)}}
* [[blow a gasket]]
* [[blow a kiss]]
* [[blow apart]]
* [[blow away]]
* [[blower]]
* [[blowhard]]
* [[blow hot and cold]]
* [[blow it]]
* [[blowjob]]
* [[blow me]]
* [[blow off]]
* [[blow off steam]]
* [[blow one's chances]]
* [[blow one's horn]]
* [[blow one's top]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[blow one's trumpet]]
* [[blow out]]
* [[blowout]]
* [[blow over]]
* [[blow someone's brains out]]
* [[blow someone's mind]]
* [[blow someone's out of the water]]
* [[blow someone's socks off]]
* [[blow the whistle]]
* [[blow up]]
* [[blowup]]
* [[blow up in one's face]]
* [[glassblower]]
* [[mind-blowing]]
* [[there she blows]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to produce an air current}} <!--1-->
* Arabic: {{t|ar|نفخ|tr=nafakha}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փչել|tr=p'čel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|духам}},  {{t|bg|вея}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|bufar}}
* Chinese: {{t-|cmn|吹|tr=chuī|sc=Hani}}, {{zh-tsp|颳|刮|guā}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vát}}, {{t-|cs|vanout}}, {{t-|cs|foukat}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|blæse}},  {{t-|da|puste}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blazen}},  {{t+|nl|waaien}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|souffler}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|soprar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|blasen}}, {{t+|de|pusten}}, {{t+|de|wehen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|φυσώ|tr=fiso}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fúj}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|soffiare}}
* Japanese: [[吹く]] ([[ふく]], fuku)
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[불다]] (bulda)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[فو]]}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|flo}},  {{t-|la|sufflo}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|дува|tr=dúva}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dmuchać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|soprar}}, {{t+|pt|assoprar}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|sufla}}
* [[Romansch]]: {{t|rm|sufflar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: [[дуть]] (dut') {{impf}}, [[дунуть]] (dúnut') {{pf}}; [[сморкаться]] (smorkát's'a) {{impf}}, [[сморкнуться]] (smorknút's'a) {{pf}} ''blow the nose''
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* [[Sicilian]]: [[ciusciari]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|pihati}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|soplar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|blåsa}}
* Vietnamese: [[thổi]]; [[phù]], [[phù phù]] (to blow on food)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to propel by an air current}} <!--2-->
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|փչել|tr=p'čel}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|刮走|刮走|guā zǒu}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|blæse}},  {{t-|da|puste}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blazen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: [[blasen]], [[wegblasen]], [[fortblasen]], [[hinfortblasen]], [[pusten]], [[wegpusten]]
* Korean: [[불다]] (bulda)
* Polish: [[zdmuchnąć]]
* Russian: [[сдувать]] (sduvát') {{impf}}, [[сдуть]] (sdut') {{pf}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thở|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|thổi|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be propelled by an air current}} <!--3-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|隨風飄動|随风飘动|suí fēng piāo dòng}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|blæse}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lentää}}, {{t|fi|lennähtää}}, {{t|fi|lennellä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|wehen}}
* Korean: [[불리다]] (bullida)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|се вее|tr=se vée}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|bay|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to create or shape by blowing}} <!--4-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|吹氣|吹气|chuī qì}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blazen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|ניפח|tr=nipéakh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[불다]] (bulda)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|дува|tr=dúva}}
* Russian: [[выдувать]] (vyduvát') {{impf}}, [[выдуть]] (výdut') {{pf}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thổi|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to blow a musical instrument to make it give a sound}} <!--5-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soittaa}}, {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to play a musical instrument by blowing}} <!--6-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soittaa}}, {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make a sound as if being blown}} <!--7-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|soida}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(of a cetacean) exhale visibly through the spout the seawater}} <!--8-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|喘氣|喘气|chuǎn qì}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|spuiten}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|suihkuttaa}}, {{t+|fi|puhaltaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[뿜다]] (ppumda)
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|sèid|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: [[phun]] [[nước]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to explode}} <!--9-->
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|պայթել|tr=payt'el}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|взривявам се}},  {{t|bg|експлодирам}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|爆炸|爆炸|bào zhà}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|springen}}, {{t-|nl|ontploffen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|räjähtää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|exploser}}
* German: [[hochgehen]], [[in]] [[die]] [[Luft]] [[gehen]], [[explodieren]]
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|התפוצץ|tr=hitpotzétz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[爆発]]する ([[ばくはつ]]する, bakuhatsu-suru)
* Korean: [[터지다]] (teojida)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|се распрснува|tr=se rasp'rsnuva}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|explodir}}
* Russian: [[взрываться]] (vzryvát's'a) {{impf}}, [[взорваться]] (vzorvát's'a) {{pf}}, [[взлетать на воздух]] (vzletát' na vózduχ) {{impf}}, [[взлететь на воздух]] (vzlet'ét' na vózduχ) {{pf}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nổ|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause to explode}} <!--10-->
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|räjäyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cause sudden destruction}} <!--11-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rikkoa}}, {{t+|fi|särkeä}}; {{t+|fi|polttaa}} (''by electric current'')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fail suddenly destructively}} <!--12-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rikkoutua}}, {{t+|fi|särkyä}}; {{t+|fi|palaa}} (''by electric current'')
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to destroy by electric current}} <!--13-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|polttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be destroyed by electric current}} <!--14-->
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|palaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|be very undesirable}} <!--15-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|搞砸|搞砸|gǎo zá}}
* Finnish: [[olla]] [[syvä|syvältä]]
* Korean: [[제기랄]] (jegiral) (''interjection'')
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|tẽn tò|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|tẽn|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|thẹn thò|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t+|vi|thẹn|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to squander}} <!--16-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|浪費|浪费|làng fèi}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|doorjagen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tuhlata}}, {{t-|fi|törsätä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[날리다]] (nallida)
* Russian: [[продувать]] (produvát') {{impf}}, [[продуть]] (prodút') {{pf}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: [[xài phí]], [[phung phí]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fellate}} <!--17-->
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|ծծել|tr=ççel}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|духам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[llepar]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|pijpen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ottaa suihin}}
* French: [[sucer]], [[tailler]] une [[pipe]]
* Korean: [[아양떨다]] (ayang-tteolda)
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|пуши|tr=púši}},  {{t|mk|дудла|tr=dúdla}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[robić loda]], [[lizać pałę]], [[obciągać loda]], [[obciągać fiuta]], [[obciągać chuja]]
* Russian: [[сосать]] (sosát') {{impf}}, [[отсосать]] (otsosát') {{pf}}
* Serbian:
*:* Cyrillic: [[пушити]]
*:* Roman: [[pušiti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|chupar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to leave}} <!--18-->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{zh-tsp|離開|离开|lí kāi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|häipyä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[그만두다]] (geuman-duda)
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* Vietnamese: [[bỏ đi]], [[chuồn]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
''intransitive meanings''
* {{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[blovi]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tiup|meniup]], [[ledak|meledakkan]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[ఊదు]] (oodu), [[కొట్టుకొనిపోవు]] (koTTukonipOvu), [[వీచు]] (veecu)
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A strong [[wind]].<!--4-->
#: ''We're having a bit of a '''blow''' this afternoon.''
# {{UK|informal}} A chance to catch one’s breath.<!--5-->
#: ''The players were able to get a '''blow''' during the last timeout.''
# {{uncountable|slang}} [[cocaine|Cocaine]].<!--3-->

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|strong wind}}
* Finnish: [[puhuri]], [[kova]] [[tuuli]]
* German: {{t+|de|Böe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|виор|m|tr=víor}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|chance to catch one’s breath}}
* Finnish: [[hengähdystauko]], [[henki|henkeä]]
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|здив|m|tr=zdiv}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|передышка|f|tr=p'er'edýška}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|cocaine}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|blowe|lang=enm}}, {{term|blaw|lang=enm}}, northern variant of {{term|blēwe|lang=enm}}, from {{proto|Germanic|blewwanan}} 'to beat' (compare Old Norse {{term|blegði|lang=non}} 'wedge', German {{term|bläuen|lang=de}}, Middle Dutch {{term|blouwen|lang=nl}}). Related to [[block]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The act of [[striking]] or [[hit]]ting.<!--1-->
#: ''A fabricator is used to direct a sharp '''blow''' to the surface of the stone.''
#: ''During an exchange to end round 13, Duran landed a '''blow''' to the mid-section.''
# An [[unfortunate]] [[occurrence]].<!--2-->
#: ''A further '''blow''' to the group came in 1917 when Thomson died while canoeing in Algonquin Park.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top3|terms derived from ''blow'' (noun)}}
* [[blow-by-blow]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[body blow]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[low blow]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top| act of striking or hitting}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հարված|tr=harvaç}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|удар|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slag|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|bato|xs=Esperanto}},  {{t-|eo|frapo|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|isku}}
* French: {{t+|fr|coup|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schlag|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|csapás}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|frapo|xs=Ido}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|botta|f}},  {{t+|it|colpo|m}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|удар|m|tr=údar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|удар|m|tr=udár}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[దెబ్బ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unfortunate occurrence}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|հարված|tr=harvaç}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slag|m}}, {{t+|nl|tegenslag|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|takaisku}},  {{t+|fi|isku}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rückschlag|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|удар|m|tr=údar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|удар|m|tr=udár}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|panchi|xs=Swahili}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[దెబ్బ]] (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
{{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|blowen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|blowan|blōwan|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|blōjanan}} (cf. Dutch {{term|bloeien|lang=nl}}, German {{term|blühen|lang=de}}), from {{proto|Indo-European|bhel-}} 'to thrive, bloom' (compare Latin {{term|florēre|lang=la}} 'to bloom').

====Verb====
{{en-verb|blows|blowing|'''[[blew]]'''|'''[[blown]]'''}}

# To [[blossom]]; to cause to [[bloom]] or blossom.
#* {{rfdate}} [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]:
#*: How '''blows''' the citron grove.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|blossom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A mass or display of flowers; a yield.
#* {{rfdate}} ''[[w:Tatler|Tatler]]'':
#*: Such a '''blow''' of tulips.
# A display of anything [[brilliant]] or [[bright]].
# A [[bloom]], state of [[flowering]].
#: ''roses in full '''blow'''.''

=====Related terms=====
* [[ablow]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|mass or display of flowers}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kukkaloisto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|display of anything brilliant}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|loisto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|state of flowering}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kukinta}}, {{t-|fi|loisto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|blow}} [[bowl#English|bowl]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[ar:blow]]
[[de:blow]]
[[et:blow]]
[[el:blow]]
[[es:blow]]
[[fr:blow]]
[[gl:blow]]
[[ko:blow]]
[[hy:blow]]
[[hr:blow]]
[[io:blow]]
[[it:blow]]
[[kn:blow]]
[[kk:blow]]
[[ku:blow]]
[[lt:blow]]
[[li:blow]]
[[hu:blow]]
[[ml:blow]]
[[nl:blow]]
[[ja:blow]]
[[oc:blow]]
[[pl:blow]]
[[pt:blow]]
[[ru:blow]]
[[simple:blow]]
[[fi:blow]]
[[sv:blow]]
[[ta:blow]]
[[te:blow]]
[[th:blow]]
[[tr:blow]]
[[uk:blow]]
[[vi:blow]]
[[zh:blow]]