{{also|Bly|blý}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Probably from a dialectal variant of {{m|en|blee||complexion, aspect, colour, hue}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/blaɪ/}}
** {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-bly.wav|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|aɪ|s=1}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|now|chiefly|dialectal}} [[likeness|Likeness]]; [[resemblance]]; [[look]] [[aspect]]; [[species]]; [[character]].
#: ''I see a '''bly''' of your father about you.''

----

==Afrikaans==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|af|/bləi/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|af|nl|blijven}}, from {{inh|af|dum|bliven}}, from {{inh|af|odt|blīvan||to remain}}, from {{inh|af|gem-pro|*bilībaną||to remain}}.

====Verb====
{{af-verb|blywende}}

# to [[live]] (somewhere)
#:{{ux|af|Ons '''bly''' in 'n dorpie by die see.|We '''live''' in a small village near the sea.}}
# to [[stay]]; to [[remain]]
#*{{quote-song|af|lyricist=C.J. Langenhoven|composer=M.L. de Villiers|location=South Africa|title=Die Stem van Suid-Afrika|year=1921|passage=Dat die erwe van ons vadere, vir ons kinders erwe '''bly'''.|translation=That the heritage of our fathers, for our children heritage '''remain'''.}}
#:{{ux|af|Hulle '''bly''' sit in die motor.|They '''continue''' to sit in the car.}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|af|nl|blij}}, from {{inh|af|dum|blide}}, from {{inh|af|odt|*blīthi}}, from {{inh|af|gmw-pro|*blīþī}}, from {{inh|af|gem-pro|*blīþiz}}.

====Adjective====
{{af-adj}}

# [[happy]]
#:{{ux|af|Ek is baie '''bly''' vir jou!|I am very '''happy''' for you!}}

----

==Danish==
{{was fwotd|da|2017|November|20}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|da|[ˈb̥lyːˀ]}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|da|non|blý}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|et|-}}

# [[lead]] {{gloss|metal}}
# {{lb|da|informal}} [[ammunition]] for a [[firearm]]
#* '''2010''', Niels Ole Qvist, ''Tango 4'', Gyldendal A/S {{ISBN|9788702106442}}
#*: Han holder af at stå i skyggen under bliktaget og spy '''bly''' ud over terrænet uden at blive forstyrret.
#*:: He likes to stand in the shade under the roof and pump '''lead''' out over the terrain without being interrupted.
#* '''2015''', Nicolai Lilin, ''Sibirisk opdragelse: Opvækst i en kriminel underverden'', Art People {{ISBN|9788771377347}}
#*: Mel skød som sædvanlig fuldstændig vildt, idet han forsøgte at lave maskingeværssalver med sin pistol, så der fløj '''bly''' i alle retninger.
#*:: As usual, Mel shot wildly, as he attempted to make machine gun salvos with his pistol, so that '''lead''' went in all directions.

=====Declension=====
{{da-noun-infl|et|n=sg}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|metal}} {{l|da|plumbum}} {{qualifier|rare}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|da|non|*bljúgr}}, whence also {{cog|is|bljúgur}}, {{cog|sv|blyg}}. Compare also {{cog|gmh|bliuc}}.

====Adjective====
{{da-adj}}

# [[shy]], [[timid]]
#* '''2014''', Robyn Grady, Michelle Reid, Sandra Marton, ''Altid hos dig/Ægteskab på afveje/Den uskyldige pige'', Förlaget Harlequin AB {{ISBN|9789150784039}}
#*: Hun ligger som regel stadig inde i sengen. Hun er meget '''bly'''.
#*:: She usually still lies in the bed. She is very '''shy'''.
#* '''2014''', Lone Klint Grønbæk, ''Camino: Vandring og forandring'', BoD – Books on Demand {{ISBN|9788771450989}}, page 61
#*: Daniella, den yngste af de 3 italienske nonner, var meget kontaktsøgende. Hun var, modsat de andre, endnu ikke '''bly''', ydmyg og privat.
#*:: Daniella, the youngest of the three Italian nuns, was very extroverted. She was, unlike the others, not yet '''shy''', humble and private.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|da|bly viol}}

===Etymology 3===
Derived from the adjective {{m|da|bly}}; probably modelled after {{m|da|sky||shyness}}, which is also related to an identical adjective {{m|da|sky||shy}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun}}

# {{lb|da|archaic}} Reluctance to express thoughts.
#* '''1848''', ''Nyt historisk tidsskrift'', page 58
#*: thi Konger og Stormænd have Alting undtagen Sandhedsmænd og behøve derfor meest de Bøger, som dristig uden '''Bly''' og Frygt paaminde os i alle vore Gierninger; de ere ikke alle troe Venner, der ere Kongetienere."
#*:: for kings and lords have everything but men of truth and therefore are in greatest need of the books which, boldly and without '''worry''' and fear, remind us in all our doings that not all those who serve kings are faithful friends.

===References===
* {{R:DDO}}
* {{R:DDO|bly,2}}
* {{R:ODS online|bly}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==
{{wikipedia|lang=no}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|nb|non|blý}}.

===Noun===
{{nb-noun-nu}}

# {{l|en|lead}} {{q|material and chemical element, symbol '''[[Pb]]'''}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nb|blyfri}}

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

[[Category:nb:Chemical elements]]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==
{{wikipedia|lang=nn}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|nn|non|blý}}.

===Noun===
{{nn-noun-nu}}

# {{l|en|lead}} {{q|material and chemical element, symbol '''[[Pb]]'''}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}

[[Category:nn:Chemical elements]]

----

==Swedish==
{{elements|sv|Pb|tallium|Tl|vismut|Bi}}

===Etymology===
From {{der|sv|non|blý}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sv|/blyː/}}
* {{audio|sv|Sv-bly.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|n|-}}

# [[lead]] {{q|chemical element}}

====Declension====
{{sv-noun-unc-irreg-n|2=blyet}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|sv|blyad}}
* {{l|sv|blyfri}}
* {{l|sv|blyerts}}
* {{l|sv|blytung}}

===Further reading===
* {{R:SO}}

[[Category:sv:Chemical elements]]