{{also|Appendix:Variations of "bo"|Bo|Appendix:ISO 639-1 language codes}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
Imitative.

====Alternative forms====
* [[boh]]
* [[boo]]

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# An exclamation used to startle or frighten.
#* '''1603''', {{w|John Florio}}, translating Michel de Montaigne, ''Essays'', II.37:
#*: We may fairely cry '''bo-bo-boe'''; it may well make us hoarse, but it will nothing advaunce it.
#* '''1829''', {{w|Walter Scott}}, ''Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft'', VI:
#*: We start and are afraid when we hear one cry Boh!

===Etymology 2===
Probably a shortening of {{term|boy}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|?}}

# {{US|slang}} [[fellow|Fellow]], [[chap]], [[boy]].
#* '''1940''', {{w|Raymond Chandler}}, ''Farewell, My Lovely'', Penguin 2010, p. 255:
#*: ‘Never heard of him,’ he smiled. ‘On your way, '''bo'''.’

===Etymology 3===
{{wikipedia|Bo (weapon)}}
From {{etyl|ja|en}} {{term|棒|tr={{Jpan|[[ぼう]]}}, [[bō]]||rod, pole, stick|lang=ja}}, from Middle Chinese {{Hani|[[棒]]}} (''bɣʌŋ'').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{martial arts}} A [[quarterstaff]], especially in an oriental context.

===Anagrams===
* [[ob#English|ob]], [[Ob#English|Ob]], [[OB#English|OB]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]
[[Category:en:Weapons]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|pro|ca}} {{term|bon|lang=pro}}, from {{etyl|la|ca}} {{term|bonus|lang=la}}. Numerous cognates include French {{term|bon|lang=fr}} and Portuguese {{term|bom|lang=pt}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɔ/|lang=ca}}, {{X-SAMPA|/bO/}}
* {{rhymes|ɔ|lang=ca}}

===Adjective===
{{ca-adj|bona}}

# [[good]]

====Usage notes====
The form {{term|bon|lang=ca}} is used as the masculine singular form when the adjective precedes the noun, and {{term|bo|lang=ca}} is used in all other cases.

====See also====
* {{l/ca|bé}}, {{l/ca|ben}}

----

==Cuiba==

===Noun===
'''bo'''

# [[home]], [[house]]

[[Category:Cuiba nouns]]

----

==Danish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/boː/|[b̥oːˀ]|lang=da}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|bú|lang=non}}, from {{term|búa||to reside|lang=non}}.

====Noun====
{{da-noun|et|er}}

# [[estate]] {{gloss|the property of a deceased person}}
# [[den]], [[nest]]
# [[abode]], [[home]]

=====Inflection=====
{{da-noun-infl|et|er}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|búa||to reside|lang=non}}.

====Verb====
{{da-verb|bo|bo|bor|boede|har|boet}}

# [[live]], [[reside]], [[dwell]]
# [[stay]], [[stop]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bo/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-bo.ogg|Audio}}
* {{rhymes|o|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
Short for {{term|boterham|lang=nl}}.

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|bo's|boke}}

# {{Flemish}} [[sandwich]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Noun===
{{eo-noun|pl=bo-oj|asg=bo-on|apl=bo-ojn}}

# {{Latn-def|eo|name|B|b}}

====See also====
* {{list:Latin script letter names/eo}}

----

==Italian==

===Alternative forms===
* [[boh]]

===Interjection===
'''bo'''

# An interjection expressing doubt or indecision.
#* ''Viene Filomena stasera? '''Bo''', non m’ha richiamato.''
#** Is Filomena coming tonight? I don’t know, she never called me back.

[[Category:Italian interjections]]

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji|ぼ|ボ}}

# {{defn|Japanese}}

----

==Lojban==

===Cmavo===
{{jbo-cmavo|bor}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Closest scope grouping operator; groups surrounding words within compound words ([[tanru]]); that is, it strengthens the association between immediately neighboring words.}}
#: ''le xunre kerfa '''bo''' smani''
#:: the haired monkey who is red
#: compare to:
#:* ''le xunre kerfa smani''
#:** the monkey who has red hair
# {{non-gloss definition|Can be used as terminator to end a string of time tense indicating cmavo (at the beginning of a sentence).}}
#: ''.ibaza[[bo]] la lojban. cu pu co'a zmadu la loglan. leka vajni'' <sup>[http://jbo.wikipedia.org/wiki/lojban.]</sup>
#:: After some time'''<big><big>,</big></big>''' Lojban began to exceed Loglan in terms of importance.

====Usage notes====
* Consecutive uses of ''bo'' cause their neighboring [[brivla]] (in a [[tanru]]) to behave right-associatively.<ref>[http://www.lojban.org/publications/reference_grammar/chapter5.html Lojban Reference Grammar, Chapter 5, &sect;4]</ref>
* An equivalent construction can be achieved using a surrounding/circumfix {{term|ke|lang=jbo}} ... {{term|ke'e|lang=jbo}} pair (replacing the infix [[bo]]).

===References===
<references />

----

==Mandarin==

===Romanization===
{{cmn-pinyin}}

# {{pinyin reading of|啵}}
# {{pinyin reading of|蔔}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|bō|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|bó|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|bǒ|lang=cmn}}
# {{nonstandard spelling of|bò|lang=cmn}}

====Usage notes====
* {{zh-tone}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|gml|nb}} ''[[behof]]'' (compare [[behov]])

====Noun====
{{head|nb|noun}} {{qualifier|idiomatic use only}}

# {{context|usually with [[ha#Norwegian Bokmål|ha]]}} a [[need]]
#: ''Jeg '''har bo''' for en hammer.''
#:: ''I '''could use''' a hammer.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[behøve]]
* [[trenge]]
* [[ha bruk for]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[behov]]

=====Usage notes=====
A noun not commonly used.

===Etymology 2===
From Danish ''[[bo]]'', from {{etyl|non|nb}} ''[[bú]]'', "settled area, town" (compare alternative form ''[[bu]]''). Akin to ''[[bod]]'', "[[store room]], [[booth]]" and the verb bo, "to [[live]]".

====Alternative forms====
* [[bu]]

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-n1}}

# one's home {{qualifier|mainly idiomatic}}
#: ''De giftet seg og '''satte bo'''.''
#:: ''They married and '''settled down'''/'''build their home'''.''
# [[estate]]
#: ''Å skifte et '''bo'''.''
#:: ''To divide an estate.''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|one's home}} [[bolig]], [[hjem]]/[[heim]]
* {{sense|estate}} [[eiendom]], [[gods]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[dødsbo]]
* [[konkursbo]]
* [[sette bo]]
* [[skifte et bo]]
* [[uskiftet bo]]
* [[sitte i uskiftet bo]]
* [[ta et bo under behandling]]

===Etymology 3===
From [[Danish]] ''bo'', from {{etyl|non|nb}} ''[[búa]]'', "to prepare, finish, make preparations, equip", cognate with [[Old English]] ''[[buan|būan]]'', [[Old Frisian]] ''[[buwa]]'', [[Old Saxon]] ''[[buan|būan]]'' and [[Old High German]] ''[[buan|būan]]'' (> German ''[[bauen]]'').

====Alternative forms====
* [[bu]]

====Verb====
{{nb-verb-4}}

# to [[live]] {{qualifier|have permanent residence}}, to stay
#: ''Hvor '''bor''' du (hen)?''
#:: ''Where do you live?''
#: ''Jeg vet hvor du '''bor'''.''
#:: ''I know where you live.''
#: ''Hvor lenge blir du '''boende'''.''
#:: ''How long will you be staying?''
# to be, to dwell, to be in
#: ''Husk at all skjønnhet på jord '''bor''' i de evige ord: Jeg elsker deg.'' ([[:w:Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson|Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson]])
#:: ''Remember that all beauty on Earth dwells in those eternal words: I love you.''
#: ''Du aner ikke hva som virkelig '''bor''' i henne.''
#:: ''You have no idea '''what''' she's really '''like'''.'' (literally: "you have no idea what really dwells in her")

=====Synonyms=====
* (''to live, have residence'') [[holde hus]] ([[holde til huse]]), [[holde til husere]], [[kampere]], [[leve]], [[losjere]], [[oppholde seg]], [[residere]], [[tilbringe]]
* (''dwell in, be in'') [[finnes]], [[rommes]], [[skjule seg]], [[være]], [[være til stede]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[boende]]
* [[bo sammen]]
* [[bo seg i hjel]]
* [[bygge og bo]]
* [[hva som bor i]]

=====See also=====
* [[bu]] {{qualifier|alternative form and Nynorsk form}}

===References===
* {{R:Ordnett}}
* {{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet|blomst}}
* [http://www.ordtak.no/index.php search on "bo" on ''Ordtak.no'' - web site containing quotes and citations]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gml|nn}} ''[[behof]]'' (compare [[behov]])

===Noun===
{{head|nn|noun}} {{qualifier|idiomatic use only}}

# {{context|usually with [[ha#Norwegian Nynorsk|ha]]}} a [[need]]
#: ''Eg '''har bo''' for ein hammar.''
#:: ''I '''could use''' a hammer.''

====Synonyms====
* [[behøve]]
* [[trenge]]
* [[turve]]
* [[ha bruk for]]

====Related terms====
* [[behov]]

====Usage notes====
A noun not commonly used.

===References===
* {{R:Dokumentasjonsprosjektet|blomst}}

----

==Old Norse==

===Noun===
{{non-noun}}

# {{context|East dialect}} [[dwelling]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɔ/|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|Pl-bo.ogg|Audio}}

===Conjunction===
'''bo'''

# [[because]]
# [[or]] ([[or else|else]])
#: ''Wstawaj już, '''bo''' spóźnisz się do szkoły!''
#:: Get up now or you'll be late at school!

[[Category:Polish conjunctions]]

----

==Slovene==

===Verb===
'''bo'''

# {{sl-form-verb|3s|fut|biti}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[buː]|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-bo.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|búa|lang=non}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|sv}} {{recons|būaną|lang=gem-pro}}.

====Verb====
{{head|sv|verb}}

# [[live]]; [[dwell]]; to have permanent residence
#: ''Jag vill '''bo''' i en stor stad.''
#:: I want to live in a big city.

=====Conjugation=====
{{sv-conj-wk|bo|end=vw|nop=1|nopp=1}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[bebo]]
* [[bofast]]
* [[bonde]]
* [[boning]]
* [[bostad]]
* [[trångbodd]]

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=n}}

# [[nest]]; the place where certain animals live, in particular birds.
#: ''fågel'''bo'''''
#:: bird’s nest
# a [[home]] (the inventory that turns a place into a home)
#* 1893, [[w:sv:Elias Sehlstedt|Elias Sehlstedt]], [http://runeberg.org/esesaovi/0075.html Visa]
#*: ''Litet '''bo''' jag sätta vill''
#*:: A little home is what I want
# {{c}} (only in compounds) a person living in given city (e.g. Londonbo) or way (sambo, särbo)

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-reg-n|2=boe|3=bo|definitions=1, 2}}
Alternative form for the definite singular: ''[[bot]]''/''[[bots]]''.
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|definitions=3}}

=====Related terms=====
* [[bodelning]]
* [[bolag]]
* [[bomärke]]
* [[bosätta]]
* [[boskap]]
* [[dödsbo]]
* [[fågelbo]]
* [[sambo]]
* [[särbo]]
* [[svalbo]]

=====See also=====
* [[gryt]]
* [[kula]]
* [[näste]]
* [[råtthål]]

----

==Venetian==

===Noun===
{{head|vec|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# [[ox]]

----

==Zulu==

===Pronoun===
{{zu-pron|stem=1}}

# {{zu-combining stem of|bona}}

===See also===
{{zu-concord-table/c2}}
{{zu-concord-table/c14}}

[[br:bo]]
[[ca:bo]]
[[cs:bo]]
[[da:bo]]
[[de:bo]]
[[et:bo]]
[[el:bo]]
[[es:bo]]
[[eo:bo]]
[[eu:bo]]
[[fr:bo]]
[[ko:bo]]
[[io:bo]]
[[id:bo]]
[[it:bo]]
[[ka:bo]]
[[ku:bo]]
[[la:bo]]
[[lb:bo]]
[[lt:bo]]
[[jbo:bo]]
[[hu:bo]]
[[mg:bo]]
[[fj:bo]]
[[nl:bo]]
[[ja:bo]]
[[no:bo]]
[[pl:bo]]
[[pt:bo]]
[[ro:bo]]
[[ru:bo]]
[[st:bo]]
[[tn:bo]]
[[scn:bo]]
[[fi:bo]]
[[sv:bo]]
[[ta:bo]]
[[tr:bo]]
[[tk:bo]]
[[vi:bo]]
[[vo:bo]]
[[zh:bo]]