{{see|Bomb}}
==English==
{{see|the bomb}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɑm/}}
*{{audio|en-us-bomb.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒm|-ɒm]]

===Etymology===
From [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[βόμβος]]''' (''bombos'') “booming, humming, buzzing” (imitative of the sound itself), also from [[Latin]] bombus meaning: a booming sound.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A device filled with explosives used for destroying things.
# {{slang}}: A [[failure]]; an unpopular commercial product.
#:* The movie “Ishtar” was a '''bomb'''.
# {{context|AU|colloquial|automotive|vehicles}} A [[car]] in poor condition. Used often as [[old bomb]].
#*'''2005''' August 6, ''Warm affection for a rust-bucket past'', [[w:Sydney Morning Herald|Sydney Morning Herald]] [http://www.smh.com.au/news/words/warm-affection-for-a-rustbucket-past/2005/08/04/1123125839592.html]
#*: Nowadays, an old '''bomb''' simply won’t pass the inspection.''
# {{context|chiefly|British|slang}} A [[success]]; [[the bomb]].
#:* Our fabulous new crumpets have been selling like a '''bomb'''.
# {{slang}} A very attractive woman.

====Usage notes====
The diametrical slang meanings are somewhat distinguishable by the article. For “a success”, the phrase is generally ''[[the bomb]]''. Otherwise ''bomb'' can mean “a failure”.

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac-colon|attractive woman}} [[bombshell]]
*{{italbrac-colon|car}} [[rust bucket]]

====Derived terms====
*[[A-bomb]]
*[[atom bomb]]
*[[atomic bomb]]
*[[car bomb]]
*[[dirty bomb]]
*[[H-bomb]]
*[[hydrogen bomb]]
*[[neutron bomb]]
*[[pipe bomb]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a device filled with explosives}}
*Bosnian: [[bomba#Bosnian|bomba]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[炸弹]] (zhà dàn)
*Croatian: [[bomba#Croatian|bomba]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[bombe]] (1) {{g|Danish}}
*Dutch: [[bom]] {{g|Dutch}}
*Esperanto: [[bombo]]
*Estonian: [[pomm]]
*Finnish: [[pommi]]
*French: [[bombe]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[bom]] {{g|Frisian}}
*[[Galician]]: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*German: [[Bombe]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[βόμβα]] (vomva) {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[פצצה|פְּצָצָה]] (ptzatza) {{f}}
*Indonesian: [[bom]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[bomba]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Italian: [[bomba]] {{g|Italian}}
*Japanese: [[爆弾]] (ばくだん, bakudan)
*Korean: [[폭탄]] ([[爆彈]], poktan)
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|bombe}} {{f}}, {{KUchar|[[بۆمبا]]}}
*Latin: [[pyrobolus]], [[bomba]] {{g|Latin}}
*Maltese: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Norwegian: {{t-|no|bombe|c}}
*Polish: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[bomba]] {{g|Portuguese}}
*Russian: [[бомба]] {{g|Russian}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[бомба#Serbian|бомба]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[bomba#Serbian|bomba]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[bomb#Swedish|bomb]] {{c}}
*[[Volapük]]: [[boum]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an unpopular commercial product}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a car in poor condition}}
*Maltese: [[karakka]] 
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a success}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a very attractive woman}}
*Maltese: [[bomba]] 
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
*[[lemon]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[attack]] something by using one or more bombs; to [[bombard]].
# {{slang}} To fail spectacularly.
#:* Despite all the marketing, our product '''bombed'''. Nobody would buy it.
#:* Dunce cap '''bombed''' his examination yet again.

====Derived terms====
*[[bomber]]

====Translations====

{{trans-top|to attack with bombs}}
*Chinese: [[到炸弹]]
*Danish: [[bombe]]
*Dutch: [[bombarderen]]
*Esperanto: [[bombi]]
*Estonian: [[pommitama]]
*Finnish: [[pommittaa]]
*French: [[bombarder]]
*[[Galician]]: [[bombardear]], [[bombear]]
*German: [[bombardieren]]
*Hebrew: [[לפוצץ]] (le'fotzetz) ''to cause a bomb to explode'', [[להפציץ]] (le'haftzytz) ''to bombard from the air''
*Indonesian: [[bom|membomi]], [[borbardir|memborbardir]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[bombardar]], [[bombar]]
*Italian: [[bombardare]]
*Japanese: [[爆撃]] (ばくげき, bakugeki)
*Korean: [[폭격하다]] [爆擊-] (pokgyeokhada)
*Latin: [[urbem tormentis verberare]], [[bombardare]]
*Norwegian: {{t-|no|bombe}}
*Polish: [[bombardować]]
*Portuguese: [[bombardear]], [[bombear]]
*Spanish: [[bombardear]], [[bombear]]
*Swedish: [[bombardera]] (''dated''), [[bomba]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[boumön]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Greek derivations]]
[[Category:Contranyms]]

[[ar:bomb]]
[[et:bomb]]
[[fr:bomb]]
[[ko:bomb]]
[[io:bomb]]
[[id:bomb]]
[[it:bomb]]
[[ja:bomb]]
[[pl:bomb]]
[[ru:bomb]]
[[sr:bomb]]
[[fi:bomb]]
[[sv:bomb]]
[[ta:bomb]]
[[vi:bomb]]
[[tr:bomb]]
[[zh:bomb]]