{{also|Boom}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|boo͞m}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/buːm/|lang=en}}
** {{a|US}} {{IPA|/bum/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uːm|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
[[onomatopoetic|Onomatopoetic]], perhaps borrowed; compare German {{m|de|bummen}}, Dutch {{m|nl|bommen}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To make a loud, [[resonant]] sound.
#: ''Thunder '''boomed''' in the distance and lightning flashes lit up the horizon.''
#: ''The cannon '''boomed''', recoiled, and spewed a heavy smoke cloud.''
#: ''Beneath the cliff, the sea was '''booming''' on the rocks.''
#: ''I can hear the organ slowly '''booming''' from the chapel.''
# {{context|transitive|figuratively|of speech|lang=en}} To exclaim with force, to shout, to thunder.
#* {{RQ:Wodehouse Offing|I and XVII|I was about to reach for the marmalade, when I heard the telephone tootling out in the hall and rose to attend to it. “Bertram Wooster's residence,” I said, having connected with the instrument. “Wooster in person at this end. Oh hullo,” I added, for the voice that '''boomed''' over the wire was that of Mrs Thomas Portarlington Travers of Brinkley Court, Market Snodsbury, near Droitwich – or, putting it another way, my good and deserving Aunt Dahlia. <br>[...]<!--ch. XVII--><br> “I'd give a tenner to have Aubrey Upjohn here at this moment.” “You can get him for nothing. He's in Uncle Tom's study.” Her face lit up. “He is?” [Aunt Dahlia<!--was "She"-->] threw her head back and inflated the lungs. “UPJOHN!” she '''boomed''', rather like someone calling the cattle home across the sands of Dee, and I issued a kindly word of warning. “Watch that blood pressure, old ancestor.”}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To make something boom.
#: ''Men in grey robes slowly '''booming''' the drums of death.''
# {{context|slang|US|obsolete|lang=en}} To publicly praise.
#* {{rfdate}}, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, ''The Problem of Thor Bridge''
#: If you pull this off every paper in England and America will be '''booming''' you.
# To rush with violence and noise, as a ship under a press of sail, before a free wind.
#* Totten
#*: She comes '''booming''' down before it.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[boom box]]
* [[sonic boom]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to make a loud, resonant sound}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dreunen}}, {{t+|nl|donderen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|estrondear}}, {{t|pt|ribombar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|рокота́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|грохота́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|громыха́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|гуде́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to speak with low pitch}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|буча}}, {{t+|bg|боботя}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|dreunen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jyristä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|dröhnen}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|retumbar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A low-pitched, resonant sound, such as of an [[explosion]].
#: ''The '''boom''' of the surf.
# One of the [[call]]s of certain [[monkey]]s or [[bird]]s.<!--see also "pyow", "hack"-->
#* '''1990''', Mark A. Berkley, William C. Stebbins, ''Comparative Perception''
#*: Interestingly, the blue monkey's '''boom''' and pyow calls are both long-distance signals (Brown, 1989), yet the two calls differ in respect to their susceptibility to habitat-induced degradation.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|abrupt, low-pitched sound}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бумтеж|m}}, {{t|bg|бръмчене|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|boem}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pamaus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|boum}}
* German: {{t|de|Dröhnen|m}}
* Mandarin: {{t-check|cmn|嗡嗡的聲音|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|嗡嗡的声音|tr=wēng wēng de shēng yīn|sc=Hani}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pako}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|grzmot|m}}, {{t+|pl|huk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|estrondo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|bubuit|n}}, {{t+|ro|detunătură|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гул|m|tr=gul|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|рокот|m|tr=rókot|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bum|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Interjection====
{{en-interj}}

# {{non-gloss definition|used to suggest the sound of an [[explosion]].}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sound of explosion}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|boem}}, {{t|nl|kaboem}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|pum}}
* French: {{t+|fr|boum}}
* German: {{t|de|Bumm}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μπαμ|sc=Grek}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bum}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bum}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|bum}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бах|tr=bax|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|бух|tr=bux|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|бац|tr=bac|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pum}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|smäll|c}}, {{t+|sv|bom}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|bùm}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|nl|en}} {{term|boom||tree, pole|lang=nl}}. Compare English {{m|en|beam}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} A [[spar]] extending the [[foot]] of a [[sail]]; a [[spar]] [[rigged]] [[outboard]] from a [[ship]]'s side to which [[boat]]s are [[secured]] in [[harbour]].
# A movable [[pole]] used to support a [[microphone]] or [[camera]].
# A horizontal member of a [[crane]] or [[derrick]], used for lifting.
# {{context|electronics|lang=en}} The longest element of a Yagi antenna, on which the other, smaller ones, are transversally mounted.
# A [[floating]] [[barrier]] used to [[obstruct]] navigation, for military or other purposes; or used for the [[containment]] of an [[oil spill]].
# A [[wishbone]] shaped piece of [[windsurfing]] equipment.
# The arm of a [[crane]] (mechanical lifting machine).
# The [[section]] of the arm on a [[backhoe]] closest to the [[tractor]].

=====Related terms=====
* {{sense|nautical}} [[buoy]], [[cathead]]
* [[crane]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|spar extending the foot of a sail}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|гик|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|giek|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puomi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bôme|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Baum|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|crann scóide|m}}, {{t|ga|bum|m}}, {{t|ga|bumaile|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|boma|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|bôme|f}}
* Mandarin: {{t-check|cmn|吊杆|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|吊杆|tr=diào gān|sc=Hani}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kotokoto}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bom|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|retranca|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bom|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|horizontal member of a crane}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|стрела|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puomi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mat|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Ausleger|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|búm|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Mandarin: {{t-check|cmn|支臂|sc=Hani}}, {{t-check|cmn|支臂|tr=zhī bèi|sc=Hani}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lança|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стрела|f|tr=strelá|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bom|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|floating barrier}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|плаващ бараж}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puomi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бон|tr=bon|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|läns|c}}, {{t+|sv|länsa|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Catalan: {{qualifier|2}} {{t-check|ca|botavara}} {{g|f}}
* French: {{qualifier|1}} {{t-check|fr|hausse}}, {{qualifier|2}} {{t-check|fr|gui}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To extend, or push, with a boom or pole.
#: ''to '''boom''' out a sail; to '''boom''' off a boat''

===Etymology 3===
Or uncertain origin; perhaps a development of Etymology 1, above.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|economics|business|lang=en}} A period of [[prosperity]] or high market activity.

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|period of prosperity}} [[recession]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|period of prosperity}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бум|m|tr=bum|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|bg|разцвет|m|tr=rascvét|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|boom|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|景氣繁榮|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|景气繁荣|tr=jǐngqì fánróng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|景氣|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|景气|tr=jǐngqì|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|繁榮|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|繁荣|tr=fánróng|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|hausse}}, {{t+|nl|hoogconjunctuur}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|korkeasuhdanne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|boom|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Aufschwung|m}}, {{t+|de|Boom|m}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|borradh|m}}, {{t|ga|borradh trádála|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ブーム|tr=būmu|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|붐|sc=Kore}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|boom|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|boom|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|avânt|n}}, {{t+|ro|prosperitate|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бум|m|tr=bum|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|расцвет|m|tr=rascvét|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|подъём|m|tr=pod”jóm|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|boom|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|boom|c}}, {{t+|sv|högkonjunktur|c}}, {{t+|sv|hausse|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To be [[prosperous]].
#: ''Business was '''booming'''.
# {{context|transitive|dated|lang=en}} To cause to advance rapidly in price.
#: ''to '''boom''' railroad or mining shares''

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|to be prosperous}} [[flourish]], [[prosper]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[sis boom bah]]
* [[boom town]]/[[boomtown]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to be prosperous}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|процъфтявам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bloeien}}, {{t+|nl|floreren}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kukoistaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|prospérer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|blühen}}, {{t+|de|florieren}}, {{t+|de|boomen}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|prosperować}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|florescer}}, {{t+|pt|prosperar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|процвета́ть|impf|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[mobo#English|mobo]], [[MOBO#English|MOBO]], [[moob#English|moob]]

[[Category:en:Sound]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|nl|af}} {{term|boom||lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/boəm/|lang=af}}

===Noun===
{{af-noun|bome}}

# A [[tree]]

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{m|dum|boom}}, from {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{m|odt|bōm}}, {{m|odt|boum}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{m|gem-pro|*baumaz}}. Cognate with English {{term|boom||horizontal member|lang=en}}, {{term|beam||wood|lang=en}}, German {{term|Baum||tree|lang=de}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{rhymes|oːm|lang=nl}}
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/boːm/}}
* {{audio|Nl-boom.ogg|audio|lang=nl}}

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-en|boompje}}

# [[tree]]
# any [[solid]], [[pole]]-shaped, usually [[wooden]] object

=====Derived terms=====
Trees:
* {{l|nl|boombast}}, {{l|nl|boomgaard}}, {{l|nl|boomgrens}}, {{l|nl|boomkweker}}, {{l|nl|boomschors}}, {{l|nl|boomstam}}, {{l|nl|boomstronk}}
* {{qualifier|by type}} {{l|nl|loofboom}}, {{l|nl|naaldboom}}
* {{qualifier|by fruit}} {{l|nl|appelboom}}, {{l|nl|noteboom}}
* {{qualifier|by use}} {{l|nl|meiboom}}, {{l|nl|kerstboom}}
* {{qualifier|other plant species}} {{l|nl|apenboom}}, {{l|nl|boomvaren}}
* {{qualifier|animal species}} {{l|nl|boomkikker}}, {{l|nl|boomkikvors}}, {{l|nl|boomvors}}, {{l|nl|boomklever}}, {{l|nl|boomkruiper}}, {{l|nl|boomleeuwerik}}

Solid pole-shaped object:
* {{l|nl|bomen}}
* {{qualifier|by use}} {{l|nl|hefboom}}, {{l|nl|slagboom}}

=====Descendants=====
* English: {{l|en|boom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|en|nl}} {{m|en|boom}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/buːm/|lang=nl}}

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-s|boompje}}

# [[#English|boom]], as in a market explosion

===References===
* {{R:Koenen}}

===See also===
* {{pedialite}}
* {{Wikisource1911Enc Citation|Boom}}

[[Category:Dutch heteronyms]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}} [[#English|boom]], from Dutch [[#Dutch|boom]] - see above

===Noun===
{{head|it|noun|g=m|invariable}}

# A [[#English|boom]] (sound)
# A [[#English|boom]], rapid expansion
# A [[#English|boom]] (crane)

----

==Portuguese==

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{label|pt|economics|business}} {{l/en|boom}} {{gloss|period of prosperity}}

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|es}}.

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# {{l/en|boom}} {{gloss|period of prosperity or high market activity}}

===See also===
* {{l/es|bum}}

[[af:boom]]
[[az:boom]]
[[cs:boom]]
[[cy:boom]]
[[da:boom]]
[[de:boom]]
[[et:boom]]
[[el:boom]]
[[es:boom]]
[[eu:boom]]
[[fa:boom]]
[[fr:boom]]
[[ga:boom]]
[[gd:boom]]
[[ko:boom]]
[[hy:boom]]
[[io:boom]]
[[id:boom]]
[[it:boom]]
[[kn:boom]]
[[ku:boom]]
[[lo:boom]]
[[lv:boom]]
[[lt:boom]]
[[li:boom]]
[[hu:boom]]
[[mg:boom]]
[[ml:boom]]
[[my:boom]]
[[fj:boom]]
[[nl:boom]]
[[no:boom]]
[[oc:boom]]
[[uz:boom]]
[[pl:boom]]
[[pt:boom]]
[[ro:boom]]
[[ru:boom]]
[[sm:boom]]
[[si:boom]]
[[simple:boom]]
[[so:boom]]
[[sh:boom]]
[[fi:boom]]
[[sv:boom]]
[[tl:boom]]
[[ta:boom]]
[[te:boom]]
[[th:boom]]
[[tg:boom]]
[[chr:boom]]
[[tr:boom]]
[[vi:boom]]
[[wo:boom]]
[[zh:boom]]