{{also|BOSS}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}}: {{IPA|/bɒs/}}, {{SAMPA|/bQs/}}
* {{a|US}}: {{enPR|bäs}}, {{IPA|/bɑs/}}, {{SAMPA|/bAs/}}
* {{audio|en-us-boss.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ɒs}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|boce}} (modern {{term|bosse}}), of uncertain origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[swelling]], [[lump]] or [[protuberance]] in an animal, person or object.
# {{geology}} A lump-like mass of [[rock]], especially one projecting through a strata of different rock.
# A convex protuberance in hammered work, especially the rounded projection in the centre of a [[shield]].
# {{context|mechanics}} A [[protrusion]], frequently a [[cylinder]] of [[material]] that extends beyond a [[hole]].
# {{architecture}} A [[knob]] or [[projection]], usually at the [[intersection]] of [[rib]]s in a [[vault]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|projection in centre of shield}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mechanics: a protrusion}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|изпъкналост|f}},  {{t|bg|издатина|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|выступ|m|tr=výstup}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|architecture: knob or protrusion}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|релеф|m}},  {{t+|bg|розетка|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|bugna|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|boss|es}}

# {{context|transitive}} To decorate with bosses; to [[emboss]].

===Etymology 2===
Apparently a corruption of {{term|bass}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{obsolete}} A [[hassock]] or small seat, especially made from a bundle of straw.
#* '''1916''', [[w:James Joyce|James Joyce]], ''[[w:Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man|Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man]], Macmillan Press Ltd, paperback, 36:
#*: All were waiting : uncle Charles, who sat far away in the shadow of the window, Dante and Mr Casey, who sat in the easy chairs at either side of the hearth, Stephen, seated on a chair between them, his feet resting on a toasting '''boss'''.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{italbrac|hassock or footrest}}: [[footrest]], [[hassock]]

===Etymology 3===
From {{etyl|nl}} {{term|baas|lang=nl}}, a term of respect originally used to address an older relative. Later, in [[w:New Amsterdam|New Amsterdam]], it began to mean a person in charge who is not a master.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# A person who oversees and directs the work of others; a [[supervisor]].<!--not their defining role: someone who [[fires]] people.-->
# A person in charge of a [[business]] or [[company]].
#: ''Chat turned to whisper when the '''boss''' entered the conference room.''
#: ''My '''boss''' complains that I'm always late to work.''
# A [[leader]], the [[head]] of an organized [[group]] or [[team]].
#:* They named him '''boss''' because he had good leadership skills.
# The head of a [[political]] [[party]] in a given [[region]] or [[district]].
#: ''He is the Republican '''boss''' in Kentucky.''
# {{informal}} A term of address to a man.
#: ''Yes, '''boss'''.''
# {{video game}} A final enemy in a [[video game]] or in a [[level]]/major area/[[dungeon]] that is particularly challenging and usually must be beaten in order to progress in or to complete the game.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{italbrac|person in charge of a business or company}}: [[employer]]
* {{italbrac|person who oversees and directs the work of others}}: [[line manager]], [[manager]], [[supervisor]]
* {{italbrac|leader of an organized group or team}}: [[head]], [[leader]]
* {{italbrac|head of a political party in a given region or district}}: [[leader]]
* {{italbrac|informal: term of address to a man}}: [[gov]]/[[guv]] {{italbrac|UK}}, [[guvnor]] {{italbrac|UK}}, [[mate]] {{italbrac|UK}}
* See also [[Wikisaurus:boss]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[boss battle]]
* [[boss fight]]
* [[miniboss]]
* [[final boss]]
* [[show someone who's boss]]
* [[you're the boss]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|person in charge}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|шеф|m}},  {{t|bg|работодател|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|老闆|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|老板|tr=lǎobǎn|sc=Hani}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[baş#Crimean Tatar|baş]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|šéf|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|baas|m}}, {{t-|nl|bazin|f}}, {{t+|nl|chef|m}}
* Finnish: [[johtaja]], [[pomo]] {{qualifier|informal}}
* French: {{t+|fr|patron|m}}, {{t+|fr|chef|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Chef|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[chef]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|capo|m}}, {{t+|it|padrone|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|مدیر|m|xs=Persian}}, {{t+|fa|کارفرما|m|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: [[szef]], {{m}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|şef|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|шеф|m}}, {{t+|ru|босс|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|jefe|m}}, {{t-|es|jefa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|chef|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|supervisor}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ръководител|m}},  {{t+|bg|шеф|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Chef|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[brygadzista]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|chef|c}}, {{t+|sv|boss|c}}, {{t+|sv|förman|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|leader, head of an organised team}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|ръководител|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|mastro|xs=Esperanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chef|m}}, {{t+|fr|patron|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αφέντης|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|head of a political party}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|лидер|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[baş#Crimean Tatar|baş]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|term of address to a man}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a hassock or footrest}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|centre of a shield}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ağa}}
{{checktrans-mid}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|boss|es}}

# {{transitive}} To exercise authoritative [[control]] over; to [[lord over]]; to [[boss around]]; to tell (someone) what to do, often repeatedly.
#* '''1932''': Lorine Pruette, ''The Parent and the Happy Child'', page 76
#*: His sisters '''bossed''' him and spoiled him. All their lives he was to go on being their little brother, who could do no wrong, because he was the baby; [...]
#* '''1967''': Pelham Grenville Wodehouse, ''The purloined paperweight'', page 90
#*: She '''bossed''' him, and he's never gotten over it. She still orders him around, and instead of telling her to go soak her head, he just says 'Yes, ma'am' as weak as a newborn jellyfish [...]
#* '''1980''': Jean Toomer ''The wayward and the seeking: a collection of writings by Jean Toomer'', page 40
#*: For if, on the one hand, I '''bossed''' him and showed him what to do and how to do it, [...]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[boss about]], [[boss around]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to exercise authority over (someone)}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|разпореждам се}}
* Chinese: [[督责]] (dūzé)
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|dirigir}}, {{t+|es|mandar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|bossa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{slang}} {{Liverpudlian}} Of excellent [[quality]], [[first-rate]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|boss}}
* [[BSOs#English|BSOs]]
* [[sobs#English|sobs]]

----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|it}}

===Noun===
'''boss''' {{m|inv}}

# [[#English|boss]] (''leader of a business, company or criminal organization'')

====Synonyms====
* [[capo]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]

[[et:boss]]
[[es:boss]]
[[fa:boss]]
[[fr:boss]]
[[ko:boss]]
[[io:boss]]
[[id:boss]]
[[it:boss]]
[[kn:boss]]
[[sw:boss]]
[[lo:boss]]
[[lt:boss]]
[[hu:boss]]
[[ml:boss]]
[[pl:boss]]
[[pt:boss]]
[[ru:boss]]
[[simple:boss]]
[[sr:boss]]
[[fi:boss]]
[[sv:boss]]
[[ta:boss]]
[[te:boss]]
[[vi:boss]]
[[wa:boss]]
[[zh:boss]]