{{selfref|For Wiktionary's bots, see [[Wiktionary:Bots]]}}
{{also|bót|bột|'bot|-bot}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bŏt}}, {{IPA|/bɒt/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/bQt/}}
* {{rhymes|ɒt}}
* {{audio|en-us-bot.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
Possibly a modification of [[Scottish Gaelic]] {{term|boiteag||maggot|lang=gd}}.

====Alternative forms====
* [[bott]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[larva]] of a [[bot fly]], which [[infest]]s the [[skin]] of various [[mammal]]s, producing [[warble]]s, or the nasal passage of sheep, or the stomach of horses.
#* '''1946''', National Research Council of Canada, ''Canadian Journal of Research: Zoological Sciences'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=buVQAAAAYAAJ&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=zsgCT7uIHI3KmAWNv4SxAg&redir_esc=y page 76],
#*: One deer, later found to be heavily parasitized by '''bots''', suffered severe vomiting attacks during the early spring.
#* '''1984''', Adrian Forsyth, Kenneth Miyata, ''Tropical Nature'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=MbhcAAAAMAAJ&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IMICT53bB-nJmAWJp53fBQ&redir_esc=y page 157],
#*: Jerry prepared a glass jar with sterilized sand to act as a nursery for his pulsating '''bot''', but despite his tender ministrations the larva dried out and died before it could encase itself in a pupal sheath.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|larva of a bot fly}}
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|berne|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[личинка|личи́нка]] [[овод|о́вода]] (ličínka óvoda) {{f}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|styngflugelarv|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{term|bottom|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|bots|botting|botted}}

# {{British|slang}} To [[bugger]]
# {{Australia|informal}} To ask for and be given something with the direct intention of exploiting that thing’s usefulness, almost exclusively with cigarettes. <!--Is this the correct etymology?-->
#: ''Can I '''bot''' a smoke?''
#: ''Jonny always '''bots''' off me. I just wish he’d get his own pack.''

=====Usage notes=====
Although there are some references that mention that somebody could actually be a "bot" if they practice the art of ''botting'', this noun is not really commonly used.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|To ask for something}} [[bum]] {{qualifier|UK}}

===Etymology 3===
Shortened from {{term|robot|lang=en}}.

====Alternative forms====
* [['bot]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{science fiction|informal}} A physical [[robot]].
#* '''1998''', David G. Hartwell (editor), ''Year's best SF 3'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=-xd4K63eDzwC&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qscCT8KUAazsmAWkitX9DQ&redir_esc=y page 130],
#*: I stared at the '''bot''' and recognized her for the first time.
#*: She was me.
#* '''2007''', [[w:Peter F. Hamilton|Peter F. Hamilton]], ''The Dreaming Void'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ku9OSCWRN7wC&pg=PT191&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=a78CT4k9o4qZBa3q5bQC&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22%20-intitle%3A%22bot|bots%22%20-inauthor%3A%22bot|bots%22&f=false unnumbered page],
#*: The '''bot''' juddered to a halt, as the whole lower segment of its power arm darkened.
#* '''2005''', [[w:Greg Bear|Greg Bear]], ''Quantico'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=cVIS1JpLHkwC&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=zsgCT7uIHI3KmAWNv4SxAg&redir_esc=y page 71],
#*: As he guided the bot, Andrews reminisced about his younger days in Wyoming, when he had witnessed a mishandled load of wheat puff out a dusty fog.
# {{computing}} A piece of [[software]] designed to complete a minor but [[repetitive]] [[task]] [[automatically]] or on [[command]], especially when operating with the appearance of a (human) user profile or account.
#* '''2009''', Ryan Farley, Xinyuan Wang, ''Roving Bugnet: Distributed Surveillance Threat and Mitigation'', Dimitris Gritzalis, Javier López (editors), ''Emerging Challenges for Security, Privacy and Trust: 24th IFIP TC 11 International Information Security Conference'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=3CzqIkb5JKEC&pg=PA42&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=hbsCT8SeMdCgmQWHyeiQCA&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22%20-intitle%3A%22bot|bots%22%20-inauthor%3A%22bot|bots%22&f=false page 42],
#*: The goals of IRC '''bots''' vary widely, such as automatically kicking other users off or more nefarious things like spamming other IRC users. In this paper, a free standing IRC '''bot''' is presented that monitors an IRC channel for commands from a particular user and responds accordingly.
#* '''2009''', Richard K. Neumann, ''Legal Reasoning and Legal Writing: Structure, Strategy, and Style'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=wxojAQAAMAAJ&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=hbsCT8SeMdCgmQWHyeiQCA&redir_esc=y page 91],
#*: He is particularly good at creating web robots, which are also called '''bots'''.
#*: A '''bot''' is software that searches for certain kinds of websites and then automatically does something — good or bad — on each site. Google uses '''bots''' to search and index websites.
#* '''2010''', Dusty Reagan, ''Twitter Application Development For Dummies'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=V_tf644oVQAC&pg=PA59&dq=%22bot%22|%22bots%22+-intitle:%22bot|bots%22+-inauthor:%22bot|bots%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IbYCT4_HLsXJmAXkrNW1Ag&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22bot%22|%22bots%22%20-intitle%3A%22bot|bots%22%20-inauthor%3A%22bot|bots%22&f=false page 59],
#*: Twitter '''bots''' can leverage Twitter′s text message support to allow users to accomplish tasks from their cell phones. You could consider Twitter accounts that are simply an automated import of blog′s RSS feed a Twitter '''bot'''.
# {{video games}} A computer controlled [[character]] in a [[multiplayer]] [[video game]], such as a [[first-person shooter]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-see|robot}}

{{trans-top|a piece of software for doing repetitive tasks}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|بوت|m|tr=buut, bot}}, {{t-|ar|روبوت|m|tr=róbut, ruubut}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|botti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bot|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ボット|tr=botto}}, {{t-|ja|ロボット|tr=robotto}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|botum|n}}, {{t-|la|robotum|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бот|m|tr=bot}}, {{t+|ru|робот|m|tr=róbot}}
* {{trreq|es}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bot|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|sv}}: {{t+|sv|bott|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* [[-bot]] suffix

===See also===
* [[Bots]]

===References===
* {{R:Websters}}

[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|m}}

# A [[jump]], [[leap]]

=====Related terms=====
* {{l/ca|botar}}

====Verb====
{{head|ca|verb form}}

# {{ca-verb form of|p=3|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|botre}}
# {{ca-verb form of|p=2|n=sg|m=impr|botre}}

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=ca}}

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[boat]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l/ca|barca}}
* {{l/ca|vaixell}}

===Etymology 3===
{{rfe|lang=ca}}

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[wineskin]]
# [[bagpipes]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|bagpipes}} {{l/ca|bot de gemecs}}, {{l/ca|cornamusa}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l/ca|ploure a bots i barrals}}

----

==Dalmatian==

===Alternative forms===
* [[buat]]

===Etymology===
Possibly from a derivative of {{etyl|la|dlm}} {{term|battuo|battuō|lang=la}}, or alternatively of {{etyl|gem|dlm}} origin. Compare Italian {{term|botta|lang=it}}, French {{term|botte|lang=fr}}.

===Noun===
{{head|dlm|noun|g=m}}

# [[blow]], [[slap]], [[smack]], [[whack]], [[knock]], [[strike]], [[thud]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɔt|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-bot.ogg|audio}}

===Etymology 1===
{{rfe|lang=nl}}

====Adjective====
{{nl-adj|botter}}

# not [[sharp]], [[blunt]], [[dull]]
# [[impolite]], badly [[behaving]]: [[curt]], [[blunt]], [[rude]]

=====Declension=====
{{nl-decl-adj|botte}}

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=nl}}

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|n|botten|botje}}

# [[bone]]

=====Synonyms=====
* {{l/nl|been}}

===Etymology 3===
{{rfe|lang=nl}}

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|botten|botje}}

# [[flounder]] (a type of [[fish]])

=====Derived terms=====
* [[heilbot]] {{m}}
* [[tarbot]] {{m}}

===Etymology 4===

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|botten|botje}}

# {{Flemish|lang=nl}} [[boot]]

----

==German==

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{form of|First-person singular [[preterite]]|bieten|lang=de}}
# {{form of|Third-person singular [[preterite]]|bieten|lang=de}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈbot/|lang=hu}}

===Noun===
{{hu-noun|ok}}

# [[stick]]

====Declension====
{{hu-decl-ok|bo|t|ot}}{{hu-pos-otok|bot|j|jai}}

====Derived terms====
* {{sense|Compound words}} [[botkormány]]
* {{sense|Expressions}} [[a füle botját sem mozdítja]]

[[Category:Hungarian three-letter words]]

----

==Lojban==

===Rafsi===
{{jbo-rafsi}}

# {{rafsi of|botpi}}

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gem-pro|ang}} {{recons|bōtō||recompense|lang=gem-pro}}. Cognate with Old Frisian {{term|bote|bōte|lang=ofs}}, Old Saxon {{term|bota|bōta|lang=osx}}, Dutch {{term|boete|lang=nl}}, Old High German {{term|buoza|lang=goh}} (German {{term|Buße|lang=de}}), Old Norse {{term|bot|bōt|lang=non}} (Swedish {{term|bot|lang=sv}}), Gothic {{term|𐌱𐍉𐍄𐌰|tr=bota|sc=Goth|lang=got}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/boːt/|lang=ang}}

===Noun===
{{ang-noun|g=f|head=bōt|pl=[[bote|bōte]]}}

# [[help]], [[assistance]], [[rescue]], [[remedy]], [[cure]], deliverance from evil
#: ''Byþ hræd '''bót''.''' — The cure will be quick.
# [[mending]], [[repair]], [[improvement]]
#: ''... and án swulung þǽre cirican to '''bóte''''' — and an offering to the church for repairs
# [[compensation]] for an injury or wrong; (peace) offering, [[recompense]], [[amends]], [[atonement]], [[reformation]], [[penance]], [[repentance]]
#: ''For '''bóte''' his synna'' &mdash; for a redressing of his sins
# improvement in (moral) condition, amendment
#: ''Hé tó '''bóte''' gehwearf'' — he was converted

====Declension====
{{ang-decl-noun-o-f|bōt}}

====Descendants====
* [[bote]]

====Derived terms====
* [[to bote|tō bōte]] — [[to boot]], with advantage, besides, moreover
* [[botan|bōtan]], [[betan|bētan]] — to amend, repair, restore, cure, atone
* [[botettan|bōtettan]] — to improve, repair, to better
* [[botleas|bōtlēas]] — unpardonable, not to be atoned for by bōt.
* [[botwyrþe|bōtwyrþe]] — pardonable, that can be atoned for by bōt, bot-worthy
* [[brycgbot|brycgbōt]] f. — repairing of bridges
* [[burgbot|burgbōt]], [[burhbot|burhbōt]] f. — liability for repair of the walls of a town or fortress
* [[ciricbot|ciricbōt]] f. — repair of churches
* [[cynebot|cynebōt f.]] — king's compensation
* [[dædbotnes|dǣdbōtnes]], [[dædbetness|dǣdbêtnes]] f. — penitence.

* [[dædbot|dǣdbōt]] f. — amends, atonement, repentance, penitence
* [[dædbotlihting|dǣdbōtlihting]] f. — mitigation of penance.
* [[dolgbot|dolgbōt]], [[dolhbot|dolhbōt]] f. — fine or compensation for wounding
* [[eftbot|eftbōt]] f. — restoration to health
* [[fæhþbot|fǣhþbōt]] f. — payment, fine for engaging in a feud
* [[feohbot|feohbōt]] f. — money compensation
* [[godbot|godbōt]] f. — atonement
* [[hadbot|hādbōt]] f. — compensation for injury or insult to a priest,
* [[mægbot|mǣgbōt]] f. — compensation paid to the relatives of a murdered man, [[maegbot]]
* [[mægþbot|mægþbōt]] f. — fine for assault on an unmarried woman
* [[manbot|manbōt]] f. — fine paid to the lord of a man slain
* [[monaþbot|mōnaþbōt]] f. — penance lasting a month
* [[sarbot|sārbōt]] f. — compensation for wounding
* [[synbot|synbōt]] f. — penance
* [[twibote|twibōte]], [[twibete|twibête]] (adj. and adv.) — subject to double compensation
* [[weofodbot|wêofodbōt]] f. — fine for injuring a priest
* [[wucubot|wucubōt]] f. — penance lasting a week

----

==Old Irish==

===Noun===
{{head|sga|noun|g=g}}

# [[tail]]
# [[penis]]

====Descendants====
* Irish: {{l/ga|bod}}
* [[Manx]]: {{l/gv|bwoid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{l/gd|bod}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
Uncertain. Possibly from a {{etyl|la|ro}} root *''botum'', perhaps from {{term|botulus|lang=la}} or *''botium''. See also ''[[butuc]]''.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|boturi}}

# {{context|usually of animals}} [[snout]], [[mouth]]
# [[bump]]
# [[hump]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|mouth}} [[gură]]
* {{sense|bump}} [[umflătură]], [[cucui]]
* {{sense|hump}} [[cocoașă]]

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|sv-bot.ogg|Audio}}
* {{IPA|/buːt/|lang=sv}}

===Etymology 1===
{{rfe|lang=sv}}

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[fine]]

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-irreg-c|bot|boten|böter|böterna}}

=====See also=====
* [[böta]]
* [[bötfälla]]

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|gmq-osw|sv}} {{term|bot|bōt|improvement|lang=gmq-osw}}, from {{etyl|non|sv}} {{term|ᛒᚢᛏ|sc=Runr|lang=non}} (in the Latin script {{term|bót||lang=non}}) whence also Icelandic {{term|bót|lang=is}}). Akin to English {{term|boot#Etymology_2|boot|remedy", "profit"|lang=ang}}. Masculine in [[w:Modern_Swedish#Late_Modern_Swedish|Late Modern Swedish]].

====Noun====
{{sv-noun|g=c}}

# [[cure]]; [[remedy]]

=====Declension=====
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=bote}}

=====See also=====
* [[bota]]

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[boat]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}

----

==West Frisian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bot/|lang=fy}}

===Adjective===
{{head|fy|adjective}}

# a type of [[impolite]] [[behaviour]]: [[curt]], [[blunt]], [[rude]]
# [[dull]] (as a [[knife]])

===Adverb===
{{head|fy|adverb}}

# [[very]], [[quite]]

===Noun===
{{head|fy|noun|g=m}}

# [[flounder]] (a type of fish)

[[ar:bot]]
[[cs:bot]]
[[cy:bot]]
[[de:bot]]
[[dv:bot]]
[[et:bot]]
[[el:bot]]
[[es:bot]]
[[eo:bot]]
[[eu:bot]]
[[fr:bot]]
[[fy:bot]]
[[ko:bot]]
[[hr:bot]]
[[io:bot]]
[[id:bot]]
[[it:bot]]
[[ku:bot]]
[[lt:bot]]
[[li:bot]]
[[hu:bot]]
[[mg:bot]]
[[fj:bot]]
[[nl:bot]]
[[no:bot]]
[[uz:bot]]
[[pl:bot]]
[[pt:bot]]
[[ro:bot]]
[[ru:bot]]
[[sq:bot]]
[[fi:bot]]
[[sv:bot]]
[[tl:bot]]
[[ta:bot]]
[[th:bot]]
[[tr:bot]]
[[vi:bot]]
[[vo:bot]]
[[wa:bot]]
[[zh:bot]]