==English==

{{rank|expression|Duke|battle|736|bound|York|impossible|greatest}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{SAMPA|/"baUnd/}}
* {{IPA|/ˈbaʊnd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bound.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|aʊnd}}

===Etymology 1===
See [[bind]]

====Verb====
'''bound'''

# {{past of|[[bind]]}}
#: ''I '''bound''' the [[splint]] to my leg.''
#: ''I had '''bound''' the splint with [[duct tape]].''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{context|with infinitive}} Obliged to.
#: ''Your are not legally '''bound''' to reply.''
# {{context|with infinitive}} Very likely to.
#: ''They were '''bound''' to come into conflict eventually.
# {{linguistics}} Refers to a type [[morpheme]] that cannot stand alone as a free word

=====Translations=====
obliged to
* Dutch: [[gehouden]]
* French: [[obligé]], [[tenu]]

very likely to
* Dutch: [[geacht]]

===Etymology 2===
< {{etyl|enm}} {{term|bounde}} < {{etyl|fro}} {{term|bunne}} < {{ML.}} {{term|bodina}}, earlier {{term|butina||a bound, limit}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{often|used in plural}} The border of a territory, which one must [[cross]] in order to enter or leave the territory.
#: ''I reached the northern '''bound''' of my [[property]], took a deep [[breath]], and walked on.''
#: ''Somewhere within these '''bounds''' you may find a buried treasure.''
# {{mathematics}} a [[value]] which is known to be greater or smaller than a given [[set]] of values

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|border of territory}}
* Dutch: [[grens]], [[limiet]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|raja}}
* French: [[frontière]]
* German: {{t|de|Abgrenzung|f}}, [[Grenz]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|granica|f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|límite}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gräns|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|value greater (or smaller) than a given set}}
* Dutch: [[limiet]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|raja-arvo}}
* French: [[limite]]
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schranke|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gräns|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[acotado]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: పరిధి
{{checktrans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from bound (noun: boundary)}}
* [[boundary]]
* [[boundless]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[least upper bound]]
* [[lower bound]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[metes and bounds]]
* [[out of bounds]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[upper bound]]
* [[within bounds]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[surround]] a territory or other geographical entity.
#: ''France, Portugal, Gibraltar and Andorra '''bound''' Spain.''
#: ''Kansas is '''bounded''' by Nebraska on the north, Missouri on the east, Oklahoma on the south and Colorado on the west.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from bound (verb: limit)}}
* [[unbound]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[unbounded]]
{{rel-mid}}

{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To surround a territory}}
* Dutch: [[begrenzen]], [[omringen]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|tõkestama}}
* Finnish: [[reunustaa]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: [[délimiter]], [[entourer]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|limitar}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|gränsa till}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
< {{etyl|fr}} {{term|bondir||to leap, bound, orig. make a loud resounding noise}}; perhaps < {{LL.}} {{term|bombitare||to hum, buzz}}, freq. verb < {{etyl|la}} {{term|bombus||a humming or buzzing}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A sizeable [[jump]], leap.
#: ''The [[deer]] crossed the [[stream]] in a single '''bound'''.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[by leaps and bounds]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|sizeable jump}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|jauzi|xs=Basque}}, {{t-|eu|salto|xs=Basque}}
* Dutch: [[sprong]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hyppy}}, {{t-|fi|loikka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: [[bond]] {{f}}, [[saut]] {{m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Sprung|m}}
* Swedish: [[hopp]] {{n}}, [[skutt]] {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[leap]], move by jumping.
#: ''The rabbit bounded down the lane.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[rebound]]

=====Translations=====
* Dutch: [[springen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|hyppiä}}, {{t-|fi|hypähdellä}}
* French: [[bondir]], [[sauter]]
* Swedish: [[skutta]]

===Etymology 4===
Alteration of ''[[boun]]'', with '''-d''' partly for [[euphonic]] effect and partly by [[association]] with Etymology 1, above.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{obsolete}} [[ready|Ready]], [[prepared]].
# Ready to start or go (to); moving in the direction (of).
#: ''Is that message '''bound''' for me?''
#: ''Which way are you '''bound'''?''

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Ready, prepared}}
* Dutch: [[bereid]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Ready to start or go (to); moving in the direction (of)}}
* Dutch: [[bestemd]] (voor)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Constrained by something, or constrained to something}}
* Danish: {{t|da|begrænset}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[sidottu]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from bound (moving in the direction of)}}
* [[-bound]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[bound for]]
{{rel-bottom}}

[[Category:Contranyms]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Gaits]]

[[ar:bound]]
[[et:bound]]
[[el:bound]]
[[fa:bound]]
[[fr:bound]]
[[ko:bound]]
[[io:bound]]
[[it:bound]]
[[ku:bound]]
[[hu:bound]]
[[ja:bound]]
[[no:bound]]
[[ru:bound]]
[[ta:bound]]
[[te:bound]]
[[tr:bound]]
[[zh:bound]]