==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/bɹɑːs/}}
* {{rhymes|ɑːs}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/bɹæs/}}
* {{rhymes|æs}}
* {{audio|en-us-brass.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|bræs|lang=ang}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-|es}}

# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} A [[metallic]] [[alloy]] of [[copper]] and [[zinc]] used in many industrial and [[plumbing]] applications.
# {{context|countable|music|lang=en}} A class of [[wind instrument]]s, usually made of [[metal]] (such as brass), that use [[vibration]]s of the [[player]]'s [[lip]]s to produce [[sound]].
# Spent shell casings (usually made of brass); the part of the cartridge left over after bullets have been fired.
# {{context|uncountable|lang=en}} The colour of brass.
#: {{color panel|C9AE5D}}
# {{context|uncountable|used as a singular or plural noun|military|lang=en}} High-ranking [[officers]].
#: ''The '''brass''' are not going to like this.''
#: ''The '''brass''' is not going to like this.''
# {{context|uncountable|informal|lang=en}} A brave or foolhardy attitude.
#: ''You've got a lot of '''brass''' telling me to do that!''
# {{context|slang|dated|lang=en}} Money.
# Inferior composition.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top|terms derived from ''brass (noun)''}}
* [[bold as brass]]
* [[brass balls]]
* [[brass band]]
* [[brassboard]]
* [[brass hat]]
* [[brass in pocket]]
* [[brass instrument]]
* [[brass knuckles]]
* [[brass monkey]]
* [[brass nail]]
* [[brass neck]]
* [[brass rat]]
* [[brass ring]]
* [[brass section]]
* [[brass tacks]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[brassbound]]
* [[brass-collar]]
* [[brassed off]]
* [[brass-rubbing]]
* [[brassware]]
* [[brasswind]]
* [[brassy]]
* [[calamine brass]]
* [[high brass]]
* [[get down to brass tacks]]
* [[nonbrass]]
* [[not have a brass farthing]]
* [[top brass]]
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|alloy of copper and zinc}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|արույր|tr=aruyr}}
*: Old Armenian: {{t|xcl|արոյր|tr=aroyr|sc=Armn}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|латунь|f|tr=latúnʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|месинг|m|tr=mésing}}, {{t+|bg|пиринч|m|tr=pirinč}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|llautó}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᏣᏱ|tr=tsayi|sc=Cher}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|黃銅|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|黄铜|tr=huángtóng|sc=Hani}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{t|crh|cez}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|mosaz|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|messing|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|messing|n}}, {{t|nl|geelkoper|n}};
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|latuno}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|messing|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|messinki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laiton|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Messing|n}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ottone|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|黄銅|tr=おうどう, ōdō|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|真鍮|tr=しんちゅう, shinchū|sc=Jpan}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|jaûne tchuivre|m}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|латунь}}, {{t+|ky|сары жез}}, {{t+|ky|акча}}, {{t+|ky|жез тыйын}}, {{t+|ky|көрнөкчө}}, {{t+|ky|тактача}}, {{t+|ky|чоңдор}}, {{t+|ky|начальниктер}}, {{t+|ky|майда тыйын}}, {{t|ky|мемориалдуу доска}}, {{t|ky|эстелик тактасы}}, {{t+|ky|жаза тартуу}}, {{t+|ky|пастык}}, {{t+|ky|төмөндүк}}, {{t+|ky|балиттик}}, {{t+|ky|арамзалык}}, {{t+|ky|шерменделик}}, {{t+|ky|бетпактык}}, {{t+|ky|уятсыздык}}, {{t+|ky|бетпактык}}, {{t+|ky|латунь}}, {{t+|ky|подшипник}}, {{t+|ky|военщина}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|misiņš|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|месинг|m|tr=mésing|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|loyang}}, {{t|ms|kuningan}}, {{t|ms|tembaga kuning}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|ram|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|parāhi}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|béésh łitsoii}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|messing|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|messing|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|برنج|tr=berenj|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mosiądz|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|latão|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|alamă|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|латунь|f|tr=latúnʹ}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|pràis|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|мед|f}}, {{t|sh|мјед|f}}, {{t|sh|месинг|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|med|f}}, {{t+|sh|mjed|f}}, {{t+|sh|mesing|m}},
* Slovak: {{t|sk|mosadz|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|med|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|latón|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|mässing}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|ఇత్తడి}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|pirinç}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|латунь|f|tr=latúnʹ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|đồng thau}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|made of brass (attributive use)}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|месингов}}, {{t+|bg|пиринчен}}, {{t+|bg|меден}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|mosazný|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|messing}}, {{t|nl|geelkoperen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|latuna}}
* French: [[en]] [[laiton]]
* German: {{t+|de|messingen}}, [[aus]] [[Messing]]
* Persian: {{t+|fa|برنجی|tr=berenji|sc=fa-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|mosiężny|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|латунный|tr=latúnnyj}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|pràiseach}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|месинган}}, {{t|sh|меден}}, {{t|sh|мједен}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|mesingan}}, {{t+|sh|meden}}, {{t+|sh|mjeden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|class of wind instruments}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|փող|tr=p'oġ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|духови инструменти}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|žestě|m-p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|koperblazers|p}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vaskipuhaltimet|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cuivres|m-p}}
* German: {{t+|de|Blechblasinstrumente|p}}, {{t+|de|Blech|n}}
* Italian: {{t|it|ottoni|m-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Jèrriais: {{t|roa-jer|trompettes|f-p}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|dilní daabééshígíí}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|messinginstrument|n}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|instrument dęty blaszany|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|metais|m-p}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|alămuri|f-p}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|медные духовые инструменты|p|tr=médnyje duxovýje instruménty}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|related to brass instruments (attributive use)}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|духов}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|žesťový|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|духовой|tr=duxovój}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|spent shell casings}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|гилза|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hylsy}}
* French: {{t+|fr|douille|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|bossolo|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|łuska|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гильза|f|tr=gílʹza}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|colour of brass}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᏣᏱ-ᎠᏑᏫᏓ|tr=tsayi-asuwida|sc=Cher}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|brons|n}}
* German: {{t|de|Messingfarbe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|bronzo|m}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|messing|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bronze}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|high-ranking military officers}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|päällystö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|galonnés|m-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|fejesek|p}}
* Italian: {{t|it|gallonato}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|informal: a brave or foolhardy attitude}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|нахалство|n}}, {{t+|bg|безсрамие|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|lef|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|faccia di bronzo}}, {{t|it|faccia tosta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: money}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пари|p}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|stål|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dinheiro|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kosing|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slang: a prostitute}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|prostituta|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Of the colour of brass.
# {{context|informal|lang=en}} [[impertinent|Impertinent]], [[bold]]: [[brazen]].
#* '''1996''' May 24, 2:00 am, Sherman Simpson, ''Want license key for AGENT FOR WINDOWS95'', alt.usenet.offline-reader.forte-agent:
#*: Maybe (probably so), but it's rare someone is '''brass''' enough to post a msg for all to see asking for a software key, that the vast majority have paid for in support of the development effort.
#* '''2000''' Aug 18, 2:00 am, David Ryan, ''strangest bid retraction /illegal lottery NOT'', rec.collecting.coins:
#*: After cornering the dutch auction, the seller was '''brass''' enough to send him the whole lot without one.
#* '''2000''' Aug 19, 3:00 am, n4mwd, ''for RMB'', alt.support.anxiety-panic:
#*: Try to keep in mind that not all of his converts are '''brass''' enough to challenge the benzo pushers in this group, [...]
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[bad|Bad]], [[annoying]]; ''as wordplay applied especially to [[brass instrument]]s''.
#* '''1888''', ''Mr. & Mrs. Bancroft on and off the stage: written by themselves'', volume 1, page 90:
#*: Grindoff, the miller, 'and the leader of a very '''brass''' band of most unpopular performers, with a thorough base accompaniment of at least fifty vices,' was played by Miss Saunders.
#* '''1900''', ''The Training of Seamen'', published in ''The Saturday Review'', 3 November 1900, volume 90, number 2349, page 556:
#*: I must confess that to me there is something almost pathetic in the sight of a body of bluejackets improving their muscles on the quarter deck by bar-bell exercise, accompanied by a brass — a very '''brass''' — band, [...]
#* '''1908''', ''The Smith Family'', published in ''Punch'', March 4 1908, bound in ''Punch vol. CXXXIV'', page 168:
#*: Mr. REGINALD SMITH, KC, the publisher, followed, but he had hardly begun his very interesting remarks when a procession headed by a very '''brass''' band entered Smithfield from the west, and approached the platform.
#* '''1937''', Blair Niles, ''A journey in time: Peruvian pageant'', page 166:
#*: There are soldiers, policemen, priests and friars, as well as a motley mass of women, children, babies and dogs, and upon special occasions a very '''brass''' band.
#* ''Philippine Magazine'', volume 6, page 27: {{rfdate}}
#*: The padre in my neighborhood — Santa Ana — was having some kind of a fiesta, and had hired a very '''brass''' band. This band kept up its martial airs for hours and hours after I got home, with grand finales — or what each time I hoped would be the grand finale, every five minutes.
# Of inferior composition.
#* {{quote-journal|journal=The New York times film reviews|volume=3|year=1939|passage=As Honest Plush Brannon then, Mr. Beery is one of San Francisco's fancier con men and hence more '''brass''' than plush}}

=====Quotations=====
* '''1869''', ''Calendar of State Papers, domestic series, of the reign of Charles I, 1637-1638'', edited by John Bruce, page 147:
*: At the Council board, I hope to charge him with that he cannot answer, and yet I know his face is '''brass''' enough.
* '''1872''', Elsie Leigh Whittlesey, ''Helen Ethinger: or, Not Exactly Right'', page 154:
*: [...] he continued in the same insulting strain. "If you were not quite '''brass''', you would know it is not proper to be making promises you dare not tell of."
* '''2011''', Paul Christopher, ''The Templar Conspiracy'':
*: It was a show of very large and very '''brass''' cojones, [...]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|colour of brass}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bronzen}}
* French: [[couleur]] [[de]] [[laiton]]
* German: {{t|de|messingfarben}}, {{t|de|messinggelb}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bronze}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|pràiseach}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|mjȅden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[braze]]
* [[brazen]]
* [[brazier]]

===Etymology 2===
By [[ellipsis]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{context|uncountable|slang|lang=en}} [[brass in pocket|Brass in pocket]]; [[money]].
# {{context|countable|slang|lang=en}} A [[brass nail]]; a [[prostitute]].

====Adjective====
{{head|en|adjective}}

# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[brass monkey|Brass monkey]]; [[cold]].

===See also===
* [[althorn]]
* [[chalcography]]
* [[cornet]]
* [[euphonium]]
* [[flugelhorn]]
* [[French horn]]
* [[mellophone]]
* [[Muntz metal]]
* [[saxhorn]]
* [[sousaphone]]
* [[trombone]]
* [[trumpet]]
* [[tuba]]
* [[Appendix:Colors]]

[[Category:en:Alloys]]
[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/prasː/|lang=is}}
* {{rhymes|asː|lang=is}}

===Noun===
{{is-noun|n|brass|-}}

# {{context|music|slang|lang=is}} [[#English|brass]]

====Declension====
{{is-decl-noun-n-s|br|a|ss|pl=-}}

[[ang:brass]]
[[ar:brass]]
[[cs:brass]]
[[de:brass]]
[[et:brass]]
[[fa:brass]]
[[fr:brass]]
[[ko:brass]]
[[hy:brass]]
[[io:brass]]
[[it:brass]]
[[kn:brass]]
[[kk:brass]]
[[ku:brass]]
[[ky:brass]]
[[li:brass]]
[[hu:brass]]
[[mg:brass]]
[[ml:brass]]
[[my:brass]]
[[ja:brass]]
[[oc:brass]]
[[uz:brass]]
[[pl:brass]]
[[pt:brass]]
[[ro:brass]]
[[ru:brass]]
[[sa:brass]]
[[simple:brass]]
[[fi:brass]]
[[sv:brass]]
[[ta:brass]]
[[te:brass]]
[[chr:brass]]
[[tr:brass]]
[[vi:brass]]
[[zh:brass]]