{{also|Brash}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/bɹæʃ/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-brash.wav |Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|en|æʃ|s=1}}

===Etymology 1===
{{unk|en|Uncertain}}. Perhaps from {{bor|en|sco|brash}}, {{m|sco|brasch|t=a violent onset; an attack or assault}}. Perhaps also related to {{cog|nl|bars|t=stern; strict}}, {{cog|de|barsch|t=harsh; unfriendly}}, {{cog|da|barsk|t=harsh; rough; tough}}, {{cog|sv|barsk|t=harsh; impetuous}}.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# {{lb|en|of people or behaviour}} [[overly|Overly]] [[bold]] or [[self-assertive]] to the point of being [[insensitive]], [[tactless]] or [[impudent]]; [[shameless]].
#: {{syn|en|audacious|brassy|brazen|cocky|undiplomatic}}
#: {{ux|en|a '''brash''' young businessman; a '''brash''' tabloid; a '''brash''' sense of humour}}
#* '''1902''', {{w|Opie Read}}, ''The Starbucks'', Chicago: Laird & Lee, Chapter , p.{{nbsp}}210,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/18984/18984-h/18984-h.htm]</sup>
#*: Mrs. Mayfield looked away, and the girl stricken with remorse, hastened to her and said: “There, I have been too '''brash''', haven’t I? You must forgive me for I didn’t intend to be '''brash'''.”
#*: “'''Brash''', my dear? What do you mean by that?”
#*: She laughed. “Why, I thought everybody know’d what '''brash''' meant. Well, it’s er—too quick to say somethin’ you oughtn’t to say.”
#* '''1925''', {{w|Sinclair Lewis}}, ''{{w|Arrowsmith}}'', Chapter{{nbsp}}17,<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks02/0200131h.html]</sup>
#*: Trouble with Silzer is, he’s too '''brash'''—shoots off his mouth too much—likes to hear himself talk.
#* '''1958''', {{w|Peter De Vries}}, ''Mackerel Plaza'', Penguin, 1986, Chapter 14, p.{{nbsp}}209,
#*: The American’s '''brash''' unconcern for nuance indicates a young and vigorous country, the Briton’s clipped speech an ancient, proverbial reserve.
#* '''2013''', {{w|Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie}}, ''{{w|Americanah}}'', New York: Knopf, Chapter{{nbsp}}54,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=siSlP9JOj2YC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: Edusco liked him, he could tell; he imagined Edusco talking about him in a gathering of other self-made Igbo men, men who were '''brash''' and striving, who juggled huge businesses and supported vast extended families.
# {{lb|en|of actions}} Overly bold, [[impetuous]] or [[rash]].
#: {{syn|en|foolhardy|reckless}}
#* '''1905''', {{w|Andy Adams (writer)|Andy Adams}}, ''The Outlet'', Boston: Houghton, Mifflin, Chapter 2, p.{{nbsp}}22,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/theoutlet00adamrich]</sup>
#*: {{...}} just because you’re a little hot under the collar, don’t do anything '''brash''', for fear you may regret it afterward.
#* '''1960''', {{w|George O. Smith}}, “The Troublemakers,” ''{{w|Galaxy Science Fiction}}'' Volume 18, No. 4, April 1960, p.{{nbsp}}156,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/Galaxy_v18n04_1960-04]</sup>
#*: Now, Mr. Reed, you’ve committed nothing but a '''brash''' act of bad taste by bypassing the standard channels.
# {{lb|en|of things}} Bold, [[bright]] or [[showy]], often in a [[tasteless]] way.
#: {{syn|en|flashy|garish|loud|splashy|Thesaurus:gaudy}}
#: '''''brash''' colours; a '''brash''' perfume''
#* '''1963''', {{w|Ian Fleming}}, ''Thrilling Cities'', London: Jonathan Cape, Chapter 1, “Hong Kong,”<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20160517/html.php]</sup>
#*: There are scores of '''brash''' and noisy bars along Lockhart Street and in Wanchai and North Point (on the island) and throughout the back lanes of Kowloon {{...}}
#* '''1996''', {{w|Guy Vanderhaeghe}}, ''{{w|The Englishman's Boy|The Englishman’s Boy}}'', New York: Picador, 1998, Chapter 24, p.{{nbsp}}243,<sup>[https://openlibrary.org/ia/englishmansboy00vand]</sup>
#*: The driveway is filled with vehicles parked bumper to bumper and the house is lit up like I’ve never seen it before, '''brash''' yellow light streaming from every window on every floor, and the tinny, nasal sound of gramophone jazz trumpeting inside.
#* '''2001''', {{w|Walt Dohrn}} ''et al.'' “Artist Unknown”, ''{{w|SpongeBob SquarePants}}'', season 2, episode 18b, Nickelodeon
#*: ''Squidward:'' How about this one? I call it, ''Bold and '''Brash'''''.
#*: ''Art Curator:'' More like, ''belongs in the trash!''
#* {{quote-journal|en|date=2021 December 15|author=Robin Leleux|title=Awards honour the best restoration projects: The Great Western Railway Craft Skills Award: Victoria Arcade|journal=RAIL|issue=946|page=59|text=Sadly, by the 1970s the arcade had gone downmarket with '''brash''' shop fronts and cheap shops, some of doubtful reputation.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|overly bold or self-assertive}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|безразсъден}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|röyhkeä}}
* German: {{t+|de|dreist}}, {{t+|de|forsch }}, {{t+|de|frech}}, {{t+|de|schnodderig}}, {{t+|de|keck}}
* Latin: {{t|la|procax}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|گستاخ|tr=gostâx}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|schwiendriest}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|procaz}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|tupeist|m}}, {{t+|ro|obraznic|m}}, {{t+|ro|impertinent|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|procaz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|impetuous or rash}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|стремителен}}
* German: {{t+|de|nassforsch}}, {{t+|de|übermütig}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bold, bright or showy}}
* German: {{t+|de|schrill }}, {{t+|de|grell}}, {{t|de|knallig}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* French: {{t+|fr|irréfléchi}}, {{t+|fr|agressif}}, {{t+|fr|culotté}} {{qualifier|familiar}}, {{t+|fr|gonflé}} {{qualifier|familiar}}
* German: {{t+|de|ungestüm}}, {{t+|de|taktlos}}, {{t+|de|ungezogen}}, {{t+|de|dreist}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tōtōā}}, {{t|mi|pokerenoa}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nietaktowny}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|стреми́тельный}}, {{t+|ru|нечувствительный}}, {{t+|ru|беста́ктный}}, {{t+|ru|наха́льный}}, {{t+|ru|бесстыдный}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|bezcitný}}, {{t|sk|netaktný}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|irreflexivo}}, {{t+|es|precipitado}}, {{t+|es|tosco}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|utanmadan}}, {{t+|tr|terbiyesiz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# A [[rash]] or [[eruption]]; a sudden or transient fit of sickness.
# A sudden burst of [[rain]].
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} An [[attack]] or [[assault]].

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|water brash}}
* {{l|en|weaning brash}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To [[disturb]].

===Etymology 2===
Compare {{cog|en-US|bresk}}, {{m|en|brusk||fragile, brittle}}.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# {{lb|en|US|colloquial|dated}} [[brittle|Brittle]] (said e.g. of wood or vegetables).
#*{{quote-book|en|1919|{{w|Forest Products Laboratory}}|Wood in Aircraft Construction|passage='''Brash''' wood, when tested in bending, breaks with a short, sharp fracture instead of developing a splintering failure and absorbs a comparatively small amount of work between the elastic limit and final failure}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun|~}}

# Leaf litter of small leaves and little twigs as found under a hedge.
# {{lb|en|geology}} Broken and [[angular]] [[rock]] [[fragment]]s underlying [[alluvial]] [[deposit]]s.
#* '''1839''', Sir Charles Lyell, ''Elements of Geology''
#*:Alluvium differs from the rubble or brash , just described , as being composed of sand and gravel , more or less rolled
# Broken fragments of [[ice]].
#* {{RQ:Kane John}}
#*:The sea dashed in an angry surf over its inclined sides, rattling the icy fragments or “'''brash'''” against its irregular surface

===Further reading===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=abhrs|Harbs|brahs|h bars|h-bars|hbars|shrab}}

{{C|en|Personality}}

----

==Scots==

===Noun===
{{sco-noun|es}}

# [[illness]], [[fit]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|sco|water brash}}