{{also|Brät|braţ|bråţ}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Origin uncertain.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/bɹat/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|brăt}}, {{IPA|/bɻæt/}}, {{SAMPA|"br{t/}}
* {{rhymes|æt}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[child]] (as a [[pejorative]] term); offspring.
#: ''Get that little '''brat''' away from me!"
# Now often specifically, a [[selfish]] or [[spoil]]ed [[child]].
# [[bratwurst]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a selfish, spoiled, or unruly child}}
* Danish: [[unge]], [[møgunge]]
* Dutch: (verwend) [[nest]] {{n}}
* Norwegian: (bortskjemt) [[drittunge]] {{n}}
* Polish: [[bachor]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: [[pirralho]] {{m}}, [[mimado]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[невоспитанный]] [[ребёнок]] {{m}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[droch isean]] {{m}}, [[uilleagan]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[mimado]] {{m}} [[chiflado]] {{m}}
* Swedish: [[snorunge]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|bratwurst}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Bratz]] (a series of dolls)
* [[Appendix: Collective nouns]]

----

==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=bs}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=bs}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|bs|noun|g={{m|s}}|collective|braća}}

# [[brother]]
# [[mate]], [[pal]], [[buddy]], when used in informal speech to address somebody in [[vocative]] ('''brate''')

====Declension====
{{bs-decl-noun
|brat|-
|brata|-
|bratu|-
|brata|-
|brate|-
|bratom|-
|bratu|-
}}

====Usage notes====
* There is no plural form for this noun.  Instead, the collective term '''[[braća]]''' is used for plural meanings.

[[Category:bs:Family]]

----

==Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=hr}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=hr}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|hr|noun|g=m|head=brȁt|collective|braća}}

# [[brother]]
# [[mate]], [[pal]], [[buddy]], (when used in informal speech to address somebody in vocative)

====Declension====
{{hr-decl-noun
|brat|-
|brata|-
|bratu|-
|brata|-
|brate|-
|bratu|-
|bratom|-
}}

====Usage notes====
* There is no plural form for this noun.  Instead, the collective term {{term|braća|lang=hr}} is used for plural meanings.

----

==Danish==

===Adjective===
'''brat'''

# [[steep]]
# [[sudden]]

----

==Irish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sga|ga}} {{term|bratt|lang=sga}} < {{proto|Celtic|''bratto-''|lang=ga}}; cf. Welsh {{term|brethyn||cloth|lang=cy}} < *''bratt-ino-''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|Munster}} {{IPA|lang=ga|[bˠɾˠɑt̪ˠ]}}
* {{a|Connacht and Ulster}} {{IPA|lang=ga|[bˠɾˠat̪ˠ]}}

===Noun===
{{infl|ga|noun|g=m}}

# [[cloak]]

====Declension====
{{ga-noun-m1|b|rat|rait}}

====Mutation====
{{ga mut cons|b|rat}}

[[Category:ga:Clothing]]

----

==Kashubian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=csb}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=csb}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|csb|noun|g=m}}

# [[brother]]

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=pl}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=pl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=pl|[brat]}}
* {{audio|Pl-brat.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m|plural|bracia}}

# [[brother]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|brat|bracia
|brata|braci
|bratu|braciom
|brata|braci
|bratem|braćmi
|bracie|braciach
|bracie|bracia
}}

====Derived terms====
* [[bratowa]]

[[Category:pl:Family]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Noun===
'''brat''' ''m'', ''gen.'' '''brata''', ''pl.'' '''bratan'''

# A [[cloak]], [[mantle]], [[veil]], or [[canopy]]

[[Category:Scottish Gaelic nouns]]

----

==Serbian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=sr}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=sr}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|sr|noun|g={{m|s}}|collective|braća}}

# [[brother]]
# [[mate]], [[pal]], [[buddy]], when used in informal speech to address somebody in [[vocative]] ('''brate''')

====Cyrillic spelling====
* [[брат]]

====Declension====
{{sr-decl-noun
|brat|-
|brata|-
|bratu|-
|brata|-
|brate|-
|bratom|-
|bratu|-
}}

====Usage notes====
* There is no plural form for this noun.  Instead, the collective term '''[[braća]]''' is used for plural meanings.

[[Category:sr:Family]]

----

==Slovak==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=sk}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=sk}}.

===Pronunciation===
Brut/Brutiu

===Noun===
{{infl|sk|noun|g=m}}

# [[brother]]

<nowiki> sing.    pl.
N brat     bratia
G brata    bratov
D braovi   bratom
A brata    bratov
L bratovi  bratoch
I bratom   bratmi</nowiki>

----

==Slovene==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bratrъ||bratъ|lang=sl}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|bʰréh₂tēr|lang=sl}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|sl|noun|g=m}}

# [[brother]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
* From English ''[[#English|brat]]''; [[spoil]]ed person

===Noun===
{{infl|sv|noun|g=c}} ''plural: [[brats]]''

# {{context|slang|lang=sv}} person who is very careful about following fashion trends; someone who rarely ever acts independently but rather follows peer pressure, usually maintaining an appearance of visible wealth

====Usage notes====
* Mainly used in plural, as a collective noun.
* Can occasionally be seen considered as ''neuter'' rather than common.

[[af:brat]]
[[zh-min-nan:brat]]
[[de:brat]]
[[el:brat]]
[[es:brat]]
[[fa:brat]]
[[fr:brat]]
[[hr:brat]]
[[io:brat]]
[[it:brat]]
[[la:brat]]
[[hu:brat]]
[[ja:brat]]
[[pl:brat]]
[[ru:brat]]
[[sl:brat]]
[[fi:brat]]
[[sv:brat]]
[[te:brat]]
[[vi:brat]]
[[tr:brat]]
[[vo:brat]]
[[zh:brat]]