==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|breost|brēost|lang=ang}}, from {{proto|Germanic|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/brɛst/}}
* {{audio|en-us-breast.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛst}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Either of the two fleshy organs on the front of a woman's chest, which contain the [[mammary gland]]s; also the analogous organs in men.
#: ''Tanya's '''breasts''' grew alarmingly during pregnancy.''
# The [[chest]], or front of the human thorax.
#: ''The Wedding-Guest here beat his '''breast''',''
#: ''For he heard the loud bassoon.''
#: — Samuel Taylor Coleridge, ''The Rime of the Ancient Mariner''
# A section of clothing  covering the breast area.
# The figurative seat of the [[emotions]], [[feelings]] etc.; one's heart or innermost thoughts.
#: ''She kindled hope in the '''breast''' of all who heard her.''
# The [[ventral]] portion of an animal's [[thorax]].
#: ''The robin has a red '''breast'''.''
# A choice cut of [[poultry]], especially [[chicken]] or [[turkey]], taken from the bird’s breast.
#: ''Would you like '''breast''' or wing?''

====Synonyms====
See [[WikiSaurus:breasts]]

Breasts are nice squishy things on females. They are good to suck on. Joshua loves to stare at Rachels Breasts.Maddie let Ktle se hers in the shower.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To push against with the breast; to meet full on, to [[oppose]], to [[face]].
#: ''He '''breasted''' the hill and saw the town before him.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to meet full on}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|противопоставям се}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ponnistella}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
* [[breastbone]]
* [[breaststroke]]
* [[abreast]]
* [[redbreast]]
{{mid2}}
* [[breast cancer]]
* [[breast feeding]], [[breastfeeding]]
* [[breast milk]], [[breastmilk]]
* [[breastwork]]
{{bottom}}

{{anagrams:en/aberst}}

[[ang:breast]]
[[ar:breast]]
[[zh-min-nan:breast]]
[[de:breast]]
[[el:breast]]
[[es:breast]]
[[fa:breast]]
[[fr:breast]]
[[ko:breast]]
[[hy:breast]]
[[io:breast]]
[[id:breast]]
[[it:breast]]
[[kn:breast]]
[[kk:breast]]
[[sw:breast]]
[[ku:breast]]
[[lo:breast]]
[[li:breast]]
[[hu:breast]]
[[ml:breast]]
[[nl:breast]]
[[ja:breast]]
[[pl:breast]]
[[pt:breast]]
[[ru:breast]]
[[simple:breast]]
[[fi:breast]]
[[sv:breast]]
[[ta:breast]]
[[te:breast]]
[[tr:breast]]
[[vi:breast]]
[[zh:breast]]