==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/briːd/}}, {{SAMPA|/bri:d/}}
* {{audio|en-us-breed.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*: {{rhymes|iːd}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|breeds|breeding|bred}}

# To [[sexually]] produce [[offspring]].
# Of animals, to mate.
# To keep animals and have them reproduce in a way that improves the next generation’s qualities.
# To arrange the mating of specific animals.
#: ''She wanted to '''breed''' her cow to the neighbor's registered bull.''
# To propagate or grow plants trying to give them certain qualities.
#: ''He tries to '''breed''' blue roses.''
# To make sure that one's young grow up to adulthood.
# To yield or result in.
#: ''Disaster '''breeds''' famine.''
#: ''[[familiarity breeds contempt]].''

====Related terms====
[[breeder]]; [[breeding]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to sexually produce offspring}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|ربى|tr=rabbaa}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|отглеждам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[criar]]
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|繁殖|tr=fánzhí|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|培育|tr=péiyù|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|broeden}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lisääntyä}}
* French: {{t|fr|se reproduire}},  {{t+|fr|engendrer}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufziehen}},  {{t+|de|erzeugen}},  {{t+|de|züchten}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|nemz}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|besar|alt=membesarkan|xs=Indonesian}}
* Japanese: [[育てる]] ([[そだてる]], sodateru), [[育成]]する ([[いくせい]]する, ikusei-suru)
* Korean: [[낳다]] (nahda, nat-), [[새끼]][[치다]] (saekki-chida)
* Polish: [[płodzić]],  {{t|pl|rozmnażać się}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|procriar}}
* Russian: [[плодиться]] (plodít's'a), [[размножаться]] (razmnožát's'a)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|criar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|föröka sig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of animals, to mate}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paritella}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|szaporodik}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Simplified Chinese: {{tø|zh-cn|配种}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to keep animals and have them reproduce}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|развъждам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[criar]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fokken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jalostaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|züchten}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tenyészt}}
* Indonesian: [[kembang-biak|mengembangbiakkan]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|allevare}}, {{t+|it|riprodurre}}
* Korean: [[치다]] (chida), [[기르다]] (gireuda)
* Polish: [[hodować]]
* Russian: [[разводить]]/[[развести]] (razvodít'/razv'estí)
* Simplified Chinese: {{tø|zh-cn|育种}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|criar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|avla}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|trans-top|to arrange mating of animals}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|astuttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to propagate or grow plants}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|отглеждам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[criar]]
* Czech: {{t-|cs|šlechtit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|jalostaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|züchten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[가꾸다]] (gakkuda)
* Polish: [[hodować]]
* Russian: [[разводить]]/[[развести]] (razvodít'/razv'estí)
* Spanish: {{t+|es|criar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make sure that one's young grow up to adulthood}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|пораждам}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[engendrar]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kasvattaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|erzeugen}}, {{t+|de|hervorrufen}}, {{t+|de|verursachen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[기르다]] (gireuda), [[거두다]] (geoduda)
* Polish: [[hodować]], [[wychowywać]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|engendrar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to yield or result in}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|synnyttää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[낳다]] (nahda, nat-)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: [[reproduire|se reproduire]], [[élever]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# All animals or plants of the same species or subspecies eg. a ''breed'' of tulip, a ''breed'' of animal.
# A [[race]] or [[lineage]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|all animals or plants of the same species or subspecies}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|порода|f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[raça]] (of animals) {{f}}, [[varietat]] (of plants) {{f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|variëteit|f}}
* Finnish: [[lajike]] (of plants), [[rotu]] (of animals)
* German: {{t+|de|Rasse|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[품종]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|gatunek|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|порода|f|tr=poróda}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gnè|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}},  {{t-|gd|seòrsa|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Spanish: [[raza]] (of animals) {{f}}, [[variedad]] (of plants) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|race or lineage}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|род|m}}, {{t+|bg|произход|m}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[raça]] {{f}}
* Dutch: [[broedsel]] {{n}} (of animals), [[gebroed]] {{n}} (of animals)
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|rotu}}
* German: {{t+|de|Rasse|f}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|계통|sc=Hang}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rasa|f}}
* Russian: [[раса]] (rása) {{f}}, [[род]] (rod) {{m}}, [[племя]] (pl'ém'a) {{n}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|gnè|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}},  {{t-|gd|seòrsa|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|rasa}}, {{t-|sr|soj|m}}, {{t-|sr|pasmina|f}}, {{t-|sr|loza|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|raza|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: casta {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|bdeer}}
* [[brede#English|brede]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-breed.ogg|audio}}

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|breder}}

# [[broad]]

====Declension====
{{nl-decl-adj|brede}}

====Derived terms====
* [[breedte]]

===Anagrams===
* [[brede#Dutch|brede]]

[[et:breed]]
[[de:breed]]
[[el:breed]]
[[es:breed]]
[[fr:breed]]
[[ko:breed]]
[[hr:breed]]
[[io:breed]]
[[id:breed]]
[[it:breed]]
[[kn:breed]]
[[li:breed]]
[[hu:breed]]
[[ml:breed]]
[[my:breed]]
[[nl:breed]]
[[pl:breed]]
[[pt:breed]]
[[ru:breed]]
[[simple:breed]]
[[fi:breed]]
[[sv:breed]]
[[ta:breed]]
[[te:breed]]
[[tr:breed]]
[[uk:breed]]
[[vi:breed]]
[[zh:breed]]