==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|brēowan|lang=ang}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bro͞o}}, {{IPA|/bruː/}}, {{SAMPA|/bru:/}}
*: {{rhymes|uː}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[prepare]] (usually a [[beverage]]) by [[steep]]ing and [[mingle|mingling]]; to [[concoct]].
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#*: Go, '''brew''' me a pottle of sack finely.
# {{transitive}} To [[foment]] or prepare, as by brewing; to [[contrive]]; to [[plot]]; to hatch.
#* [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
#*: Hence with thy '''brewed''' enchantments, foul deceiver!
# {{intransitive}} To [[attend to]] the business, or go through the processes, of brewing or making beer.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#*: I wash, wring, '''brew''', bake, scour.
# {{intransitive}} To be in a state of preparation; to be [[mix]]ing, forming, or [[gather]]ing.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#*: There is some ill a-'''brewing''' towards my rest.
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[boil]] or [[seethe]]; to [[cook]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to prepare liquor}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|смесвам}},  {{t|bg|забърквам}}
* Czech: [[vařit]] [[pivo]] {{i|about beer}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|brygge}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|brouwen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|brasser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|brauen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|főz}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|fermentar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|brygga}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|bragu|xs=Welsh}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, or gathering}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|приготвям}}
* German: sich [[zusammenbrauen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chebuka|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed; a [[brewage]].
# {{slang}} A [[beer]].
# {{British}} A cup of tea.
# {{British}} The act of making a cup of tea.
# {{British|informal}} A hill.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|something brewed}}
* Dutch: [[brouwsel]] {{n}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|chebuka|xs=Swahili}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|brygd|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[brewage]]
* [[brewer]]
* [[brewhouse]]

----

==Polish==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|bry|lang=pl}}, *brъve < {{proto|Indo-European|bhrū|lang=pl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[brɛf]|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|Pl-brew.ogg|audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=f}}

# [[eyebrow]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|brew|brwi
|brwi|brwi
|brwi|brwiom
|brew|brwi
|brwią|brwiami
|brwi|brwiach
|brwi|brwi
}}

[[Category:Beer]]
[[Category:pl:Anatomy]]

[[cs:brew]]
[[et:brew]]
[[fr:brew]]
[[hr:brew]]
[[io:brew]]
[[it:brew]]
[[sw:brew]]
[[lo:brew]]
[[lt:brew]]
[[hu:brew]]
[[ml:brew]]
[[pl:brew]]
[[pt:brew]]
[[ru:brew]]
[[fi:brew]]
[[ta:brew]]
[[te:brew]]
[[vi:brew]]
[[zh:brew]]