{{also|Brief}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro}} {{term|brief|lang=fro}}, from {{etyl|la}} {{term|brevis||short|lang=la}}. Compare French {{term|bref|lang=fr}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɹiːf/}}
* {{audio|en-us-brief.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|iːf}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Of short [[duration]]; happening quickly. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
# [[concise|Concise]]; taking few words. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
# Occupying a small distance, area or [[spatial]] extent; [[short]]. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* '''1983''', Robert Drewe, ''The Bodysurfers'', Penguin 2009, p. 17:
#*: On the beach he always wore a straw hat with a red band and a '''brief''' pair of leopard print trunks.

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:ephemeral]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:concise]]

====Derived terms====
* [[briefly]]

====Related terms====
* [[brevity]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of short duration}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կարճ|tr=karč̣|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|къс}}, {{t+|bg|кратък}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|kort}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|kort}}, {{t-|nl|kortstondig}}
* German: {{t+|de|kurz}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|rövid}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|breve}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|短い|tr=[[みじかい]], [[mijikai]]|sc=Jpan}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|краток|m|tr=krátok}}, {{t-|mk|кус|m|tr=kus}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|krótki}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|breve}}, {{t+|es|corto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|concise}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|համառոտ|tr=hamaṙot|sc=Armn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сбит}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|kortfattet}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|kort}}, {{t|nl|bondig}}, {{t|nl|samengevat}}
* German: {{t+|de|prägnant}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|tömör}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|breve}}
* Macedonian: {{t-|mk|краток|m|tr=krátok}}, {{t-|mk|содржаен|m|tr=sod'ržaen}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|zwięzły|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|conciso}}, {{t+|es|sucinto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ca}}: {{t|ca|breu}}, {{t|ca|concís}}
* {{ttbc|fr}}: {{t|fr|bref}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|id}}: {{t|id|singkat}}, {{t|id|ringkas}}
* {{ttbc|ja}}: {{t|ja|簡略|tr=[[かんりゃく]], kanryaku|sc=Jpan}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: {{t|ro|scurt}}, {{t|ro|concis}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{legal}} A writ summoning one to answer to any action.
# {{legal}} An answer to any action.
#* '''1996''' The Japanese Rule of Civil Procedure, Article 79 (1):
#*: ''A written answer or any other '''brief''' shall be submitted to the court while allowing a period necessary for the opponent to make preparations with regard to the matters stated therein.''
# {{legal}} A memorandum of points of fact or of law for use in conducting a case.
# {{legal}} An attorney's legal [[argument]] in [[written]] form for submission to a court.
# ''(English law)'' The material relevant to a case, delivered by a solicitor to the barrister who tries the case.
# {{informal}} A [[short]] [[news]] story or [[report]].
#* ''We got a news '''brief'''.''
# {{obsolete}} A [[summary]], [[précis]] or [[epitome]]; an [[abridgement]] or [[abstract]].
#* '''1589''' Thomas Nashe, ''The Anatomie of Absurditie'' 5:
#*: ''A survey of their follie, a '''briefe''' of their barbarisme.''

====Derived terms====
* [[briefs]]
* [[control brief]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a short news story or report}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|резюме|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|resumen|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====References====
* {{R:OED2}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To knowledgeably summarize a recent development to some person with decision-making power.
#: ''The U.S. president was '''briefed''' on the military coup and its implications on African stability.''
# {{transitive|legal}} To write a legal argument and submit it to a [[court]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to summarize}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|poner al tanto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[briefing]]
* [[brevity]]

===External links===
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:OneLook}}

===Anagrams===
* [[fiber#English|fiber]], [[fibre#English|fibre]]

----

==Anglo-Norman==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|xno|bref}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|xno}} {{term|brevis|lang=la}}.

===Noun===
{{xno-noun|m|briés|briés}}

# [[letter]]
#* {{quote-book|circa 1170|title=[http://books.google.fr/books?id=yjcTAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA139&dq=Le+Roman+de+Rou+et+des+ducs+de+Normandie,+Volume+2&hl=fr&ei=hd3STa3kNNKGhQe5kZnyCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=book-preview-link&resnum=3&ved=0CDoQuwUwAg#v=onepage&q&f=false Le Roman de Rou]|author=[[w:Wace|Wace]]|passage=A li '''brief''' al Conte enveié|translation=He sent the letter to the Count}}

----

==Dutch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|dum|nl}} {{term|brief|lang=dum}} which is borrowed from {{etyl|la|nl}} {{term|brevis||short|lang=nl}}.<ref>''brief''; in: [[w:Jan de Vries (linguist)|J. de Vries]] & F. de Tollenaere, "Etymologisch Woordenboek", Uitgeverij Het Spectrum, Utrecht, 1986 (14de druk)</ref>

See also English {{term|brief|lang=en}} and German {{term|Brief|lang=de}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|if|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-brief.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/briːf/|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|brieven|briefje}}

# [[letter]]

====Derived terms====
* [[kaperbrief]]

===References===
<references/>

----

==Middle French==

===Adjective===
{{frm-adj|briefve|briefs|briefves}}

# {{l|en|brief}}; [[short]]

----

==Old French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fro|bref}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fro}} {{term|brevis|lang=la}}, see English {{l|en|brief}} above.

===Adjective===
{{head|fro|adjective|feminine|brieve|g=m}}

# {{l|en|brief}}; [[short]] in [[length]]

====Declension====
{{fro-decl-adj-f|brie|ssm=briés|opm=briés}}

====Derived terms====
* [[briement]]

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m|briés|briés}}

# (short) [[letter]] or [[statement]]

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|brief}}
* French: {{l|fr|bref}}

[[da:brief]]
[[et:brief]]
[[el:brief]]
[[es:brief]]
[[eu:brief]]
[[fa:brief]]
[[fr:brief]]
[[ko:brief]]
[[io:brief]]
[[id:brief]]
[[it:brief]]
[[kn:brief]]
[[ku:brief]]
[[lo:brief]]
[[lt:brief]]
[[li:brief]]
[[hu:brief]]
[[mg:brief]]
[[ml:brief]]
[[my:brief]]
[[nl:brief]]
[[ja:brief]]
[[pl:brief]]
[[pt:brief]]
[[ru:brief]]
[[simple:brief]]
[[fi:brief]]
[[sv:brief]]
[[tl:brief]]
[[ta:brief]]
[[te:brief]]
[[tr:brief]]
[[vi:brief]]
[[zh:brief]]