==English==
*British SAMPA: /"brIt(@)n/
*US English SAMPA: /br\`ItIn/

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪtən|-ɪtən]]

===Proper noun===
'''Britain'''
#An island off the western coast of Europe, consisting of the mainlands of England, Scotland and Wales. Also [[Great Britain]].
#(''loosely'') The [[United Kingdom]].
#(''loosely but erroneously'') [[England]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Hebrew: [[בריטניה]] (brit'ania) 
{{mid}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[Breatainn]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

== Earliest attested references ==
* ''Prettaniké'' &ndash; [[325 BC]] ([[Pytheas]])
* ''Britannia'' &ndash; [[55 BC]] ([[Julius Caesar]], [[Commentarii de Bello Gallico]] [http://digilander.libero.it/jackdanielspl/Cesare/gallico/liber_3.htm])
* ''Breoton'' &ndash; 855 ([[Oxford English Dictionary|OED]]: cites ''Old English Chronicle'', introduction)
* ''Brittisc'' &ndash; 855 ([[Oxford English Dictionary|OED]])
* ''Grate Briteigne'' &ndash; 1548 ([[Oxford English Dictionary|OED]])
* ''Brytish Iles'' &ndash; 1577, John Dee, General and rare memorials pertayning to the Perfect Arte of Navigation, London, p.63 
* ''British Isles'' &ndash; 1621, Peter Heylin (or Heylyn) in his Microcosmus: a little description of the great world.
<!-- Note:Please do not reinsert anything from this section until it has an undisputed reference. Wikipedia pages are not references. One website/book that contradicts everything else written on the subject does not count as a reference, unless we mention the alternative views too. Suggest references on talk first please. Note end-->
== Etymology ==
===Britain===
The etymology of the name ''Britain'' is thought to derive from a [[Celtic languages|Celtic]] word, ''Pritani'', "painted people/men", a reference to the island's inhabitants'<ref>[[Pytheas]] c.330BC: "Isles of the Prettanike"; [[Diodorus Siculus]] c.50BC: "those of the Pretani who inhabit the country called Iris (Ireland)"; Later Romanised as "Brittania"</ref> use of body paint and tattoos. If this is true, there is an interesting parallel with the name ''[[Pict]]'', from the Latin word of the same meaning. The modern [[Welsh language|Welsh]] name for Britain and the Picts is ''[[Prydain]]''. The [[Goidelic]] form was ''Cruithin'', showing that the Common Celtic singular form was ''*qruitanos''. The root is presumably that of modern Welsh ''pryd'' "shape, form" and Irish ''cruth''.
In [[325 BC]] the [[Greece|Greek]] explorer [[Pytheas|Pytheas of Massalia]] visited a group of islands which he called ''Prettaniké'', the principal ones being Albionon ([[Albion]]) and Ierne ([[Erin]]). The records of this visit date from much more recent times, so there is room for these details to be disputed, but it does seem to attest pre-Roman use of the name by Celtic-speaking inhabitants of the islands.

In keeping with the mediaeval penchant for etymologising country names in terms of [[eponym]]ous heroes, Anglo centric historians of the late mediaeval and early modern periods charted the history of the nation from Brutus, a descendant of Aeneas, a hero of the Trojan war, who founded Britain just as Aeneas' descendant Romulus founded Rome. Mediæval English politics  was such that [[Geoffrey of Monmouth]] and others created origin myths for the parts of the island of Britain that were not within the [[Anglo-Saxons|Anglo Saxon]] sphere. Brutus' sons, Albanact, the supposed founder of Scotland, and Camber likewise for Wales ''etcetera''. The life of Brutus, Anglicised as Brute, was recorded in the literary tradition of the ''Prose Brute''. This was accepted as the etymology of ''Britain'' well into modern times.

===Great Britain===
The original reference seems to have been to the territory in which the [[Brythonic languages]] were spoken, which more or less coincided with the Roman province of Britannia, an area equivalent to modern England, Wales and, for a short period, southern Scotland. In the Early Middle Ages speakers of a Brythonic language which later evolved into [[Brittany|Breton]] migrated from [[Cornwall]] to [[Armorica]], Western France, possibly because of pressure from Saxon invasions. This is why different forms of the same name apply to insular Britain and continental Brittany. In [[French language|French]] the similarity is even more obvious: ''Bretagne'' and ''Grande-Bretagne''. 

Geoffrey of Monmouth used the names ''Britannia minor'' to refer to the Armorican region and ''Britannia major'' for the island. The element ''great'' in the term ''Great Britain'' thus simply means large, to make the distinction from Brittany.

== Historical evolution ==
During the reign of Queen [[Elizabeth I of England]], the queen's astrologer and alchemist, [[John Dee]], wrote mystical volumes predicting a British Empire and using the terms ''Great Britain'' and ''Britannia''. After Elizabeth's death in 1603 the kingdoms shared one King, [[James I of England|James VI of Scotland and I of England]]. On [[20 October]] [[1604]] he proclaimed himself "King of Great Brittaine" (thus including [[Wales]] and also avoiding the cumbersome title "King of England and Scotland"). This title was eventually adopted formally in 1707 when the ''[[Kingdom of Great Britain]]'' was formed. 

Politically then, '''British''' has been used to describe someone or something from [[Great Britain]] since the formation of that state in 1707. British was also used to describe members of nations that formed part of the [[British Empire]]. This use now, however, could be seen as justifying the [[colonialism|colonial]] era, even if only applied historically.
The [[Kingdom of Great Britain]] was united with the Kingdom of Ireland 1801, which was already ruled by the British monarchy &mdash; to become the ''[[United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland]]''.
{{Main article|United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland}}

== Modern use ==
''Britain'' is commonly used to refer to the modern United Kingdom. For example, the [[10 Downing Street]] [http://www.number-10.gov.uk/output/Page39.asp  website] refers to 'Britain's' 51 [[Prime Ministers]]; a [[BBC]] [http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/4713676.stm  news article] refers to 'Britain's' chances in the [[2012 Olympics]].

The modern use of the term 'British' is as an adjective to describe someone or something from the United Kingdom.  It is officially used as the term to describe the citizenship of the United Kingdom.  Such a person is a ''Briton," even if he or she lives in Northern Ireland. [[Nationalists]] across the island(s) may reject the term in favour of their national description. The word British can also be used inaccurately to describe the English as opposed to the Scottish and Welsh.

It is also frequently used to describe residents of the United Kingdom's [[British Overseas Territory|current colonies]]. By the [[British Overseas Territories Act 2002]] all residents of the United Kingdom's remaining colonies have been eligible for British citizenship, making the term particularly apt.

British occurs in the legal term [[British Islands]]. This was coined to describe all of the islands of the [[British Isles]], excluding those that form part of the [[Republic of Ireland]], when they act together as a political whole. 

Historians and political commentators normally use "Britain" as the short form of the legal term "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland", preferring it to "United Kingdom."  Thus "the British government", "British cinema" or "[[British literature]]" (but "English literature" where the reference is to the English language or literature of England).  The term "United Kingdom" may be used to indicate geography, as "a road map of the UK" or "the coal mines of the UK."

Geographically, the term can be used in various ways:
* To describe someone from the island of Great Britain.
* In the term [[British Isles]] (see supra), a term for the entire [[archipelago]] of islands that lie off the north west coast of [[France]], of which Great Britain and Ireland are the two biggest. 
* The term has historically been used to describe someone or something from the British Isles. Because of the above mentioned potential for offence, this rarely happens today. For example the [[British Lions]], a rugby team which draws players from the United Kingdom and Ireland, has been renamed the [[British and Irish Lions]].
* Sometimes ''British'' applies to an area or territory currently or formerly governed by or a dependent territory of the [[United Kingdom]], for example the [[British Virgin Islands]], the [[British Indian Ocean Territory]], or [[British Columbia]] which is now a province of [[Canada]].

''See'' [[Great Britain]], [[British Isles]], [[United Kingdom]] and [[England]].

===Related Terms===
*[[Beretania]]
*[[Breton]]
*[[British]]
*[[Briton]]
*[[Brittania]]

==Notes==
<div class="references-small">
<references/>
</div>

== Sources and further reading ==
{{Wikisource1911Enc|Britain}}
* <cite>[[A History of Britain]]: At the Edge of the World, 3000 BC – 1603 AD</cite> by [[Simon Schama]], BBC/Miramax, 2000 ISBN 0-7868-6675-6
* <cite>A History of Britain, Volume 2: The Wars of the British 1603–1776</cite> by [[Simon Schama]], BBC/Miramax, 2001 ISBN 0-7868-6675-6
* <cite>A History of Britain — The Complete Collection</cite> on DVD by [[Simon Schama]], BBC 2002
* <cite>The Isles, A History</cite> by [[Norman Davies]], Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-19-513442-7
* <cite>Shortened History of England</cite> by [[George Macaulay Trevelyan|G. M. Trevelyan]] Penguin Books ISBN 0-14-023323-7 
* <cite>Origins: A Short [[Etymological Dictionary]] of Modern English</cite> by Eric Partridge, Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1966
* <cite>[http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/reader/0316726745?p=S00O  Great Tales] from English History: Cheddar Man to the Peasants' Revolt</cite> by [[Robert Lacey]], [[2003]] ISBN 0-316-72674-5.

== External links ==
* [http://www.british-history.ac.uk/ British History Online]
*[http://www.visitbritain.com/VB3-en-GB/index.aspx Visit Britain]


[[Category:Countries]]
[[Category:Islands]]
[[Category:United Kingdom]]

[[fr:Britain]]
[[it:Britain]]
[[hu:Britain]]
[[ja:Britain]]
[[ru:Britain]]
[[sr:Britain]]
[[fi:Britain]]
[[zh:Britain]]