==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=Brittany (disambiguation)|Brittany}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{sense|female given name}} {{l|en|Britney}}, {{l|en|Brittney}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|Brittania}}, presumably from Celtic. Compare {{m|en|Britain}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈbɹɪt(ə)ni/|lang=en}}
{{rfap|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{wikipedia|Brittany|Brittany (historical kingdom, duchy and French province)}}
{{en-proper noun}}

# A region in north-west [[France]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''1595''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''King Henry VI, part 3'', First Folio 1623, Act II, Scene VI:
#*: First, will I see the Coronation, / And then to '''Britanny''' Ile crosse the Sea, / To effect this marriage, so it please my Lord.
# {{lb|en|obsolete|chiefly|poetic}} The [[British Isles]]. {{defdate|15th-19th c.}}
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', IV.11:
#*: The noble Thamis […] seem'd to stoupe afore / With bowed backe, by reason of the lode / And auncient heavy burden which he bore / Of that faire City, wherein make abode / So many learned impes, that shoote abrode, / And with their braunches spred all '''Britany''' […].
# {{given name|female|from=place names}} popular in the U.S. in the 1980s and 1990s.
#* '''1990''' {{w|Alice Munro}}, ''Friend of My Youth'', {{ISBN|0679729577}}, page 102:
#*: - - - No one has family names. These girls with rooster hair I see on the streets. They pick the names. They're the mothers." "I have a granddaughter named '''Brittany'''," Hazel said. " And I have heard of a little girl called Cappuccino." "Cappuccino! Is that true? Why don't they call one Cassaulet? Fettuccini? Alsace-Lorraine?"
#* '''1999''' {{w|Andrew Pyper}}, ''Lost Girls'': Chapter Ten:
#*: Names of the times. Borrowed from soap opera characters of prominence fifteen years ago, who have since been replaced by spiffy new models: the social-climbing ''[[Brittany]]'' now an unscrupulous ''Burke'', the generous ''Pamela'' a refitted, urbanized ''Parker''.
# {{lb|en|prison slang}} Coward
# {{lb|en|dogs}} A [[breed]] of [[gun dog]].

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|Breton}}
* {{l|en|Britain}}
* {{l|en|British}}
* {{l|en|Briton}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|region of North West France}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Բրետան}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|Breizh}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Брета́н|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|Bretanya|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|布列塔尼|tr=Bùliètǎní|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|Breten|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Bretaň|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|Bretagne}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Bretagne}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Bretonio}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|Bretagne}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Bretagne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Bretagne|f}}
*: Old French: {{t|fro|Bretaigne la Menur|f}}
* Gallo: {{t|roa-gal|Bertaèyn}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bretagne|f}}, {{t|de|Kleinbritannien|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|Βρετάνη|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Bretagne}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|Briotáin|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Bretagna|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ブルターニュ|tr=Burutānyu|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|^브르타뉴}}
* Latin: {{t|la|Britannia Minor|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|Bretaņa|f}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|Bretanė|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Брета́ња|f}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|Britaan|f|alt=Yn Vritaan}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|Bretagne|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|Bretagne|n}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|Bretanha|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Bretania|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Bretanha|f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|Bretania|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Брета́нь|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|A' Bhreatann Bheag|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Бретања|f}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|Bretanja|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Bretónsko|n}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|Bretanija|f}}, {{t|sl|Bretanja|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Bretaña|f}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|Bretagne}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|Бретань|f}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|Bretän}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|Llydaw}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|female given name}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Бри́тани|f|sc=Cyrl}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Μπρίτνεϊ|f}}
* Inuktitut: {{t|iu|ᑉᕆᑦᑕᓂ|sc=Cans}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ブリタニー|tr=Buritanī|sc=Jpan}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|Бри́ттани|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{l|en|Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the world}}

[[Category:en:Brittany]]
[[Category:en:Dogs]]
[[Category:en:Exonyms]]
[[Category:en:Peninsulas]]
[[Category:en:Regions of France]]