==English==

===Etymology 1===
[[ablaut|Ablauted]] form of {{m|en|break}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|brōk}}, {{IPA|/brəʊk/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{enPR|brōk}}, {{IPA|/broʊk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-broke.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|əʊk|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-simple past of|break}}
# {{context|archaic|nonstandard|or|poetic|lang=en}} {{past participle of|break|lang=en}}
#* '''1999''' October 3, J. Stewart Burns, "Mars University", ''Futurama'', season 2, episode 2, Fox Broadcasting Company
#*: ''Guenther:'' I guess the hat must have '''broke''' my fall.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{context|informal|lang=en}} [[lack|Lacking]] [[money]]; [[bankrupt]]
# {{context|informal|lang=en}} [[broken|Broken]].
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} Demoted, [[deprived]] of a [[commission]].
#: ''He was '''broke''' and rendered unfit to serve His Majesty at sea.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[boracic]] {{qualifier|UK rhyming slang}}, [[skint]] {{qualifier|UK slang}}, [[stony-broke]] {{qualifier|UK slang'}}
* See also [[Wikisaurus:impoverished]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[nobody ever went broke underestimating the intelligence of the American people]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|lacking money; bankrupt}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|مُفْلِس|m}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|kras}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разорен}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|pelat}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|手頭緊|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|手头紧|tr=shǒutóujǐn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|手緊|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|手紧|tr=shǒujǐn|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|沒錢|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|没钱|tr=méiqián|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|blut}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rahaton}}, {{t+|fi|auki}} {{qualifier|slang}}, {{t+|fi|persaukinen}} {{qualifier|somewhat vulgar}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fauché}}, {{t+|fr|à sec}} {{qualifier|invariable}}, {{qualifier|formally}} {{t+|fr|désargenté}}
* German: {{t+|de|pleite}}, {{t+|de|abgebrannt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|al verde}} {{qualifier|invariable}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|すっからかん|tr=sukkarakan|sc=Jpan}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|blakk}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|spłukany}} {{qualifier|informal}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quebrado}}, {{t+|pt|duro}}, {{t+|pt|liso}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|разориться|alt=разори́вшийся}}, {{t+|ru|разорённый}}, {{t+|ru|безде́нежный}}, {{t+|ru|грош|alt=без гроша́}}, {{t+|ru|обанкротиться|alt=обанкро́вшийся}}, {{t+|ru|мель|alt=на мели́}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pelado}}, {{t|es|sin un duro}}, {{t|es|sin un peso}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|msoto}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pank}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|meteliksiz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{rfe|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|papermaking|lang=en}} Paper or board that is discarded and repulped during the manufacturing process.
#* '''1880''', James Dunbar, ''The Practical Papermaker: A Complete Guide to the Manufacture of Paper'', [http://books.google.com/books?id=xhlaAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA12 page 12]:
#*: If the '''broke''' accumulates, a larger proportion can be used in making coloured papers, otherwise the above quantity is sufiicient.
#* '''1914''', ''[http://books.google.com/books?ei=tOImVNnKDYHz8AHVyIHoCw The World's Paper Trade Review], Volume 62'', page 204:
#*: Presumably, most of the '''brokes''' and waste were used up in this manner, and during the manufacture of the coarse stuff little or no attention was paid to either cleanliness or colour.
#* '''2014''' September 25, Judge Diane Wood, ''[http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-7th-circuit/1679211.html NCR Corp. v. George A. Whiting Paper Co.]'':
#*: These mills purchase '''broke''' from other paper mills through middlemen and use it to make paper.

===Etymology 3===
{{back-form|broker|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|brok}}

# To [[broker]]; to [[transact]] [[business]] for another.
#: {{rfquotek|Broome}}
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To act as procurer in love matters; to pimp.
#* Fanshawe
#*: We do want a certain necessary woman to '''broke''' between them, Cupid said.
#* Shakespeare
#*: And '''brokes''' with all that can in such a suit / Corrupt the tender honour of a maid.

=====Statistics=====
* {{rank|dinner|command|etc.|771|broke|waiting|political|reading}}

[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]

[[ca:broke]]
[[de:broke]]
[[et:broke]]
[[el:broke]]
[[es:broke]]
[[fa:broke]]
[[fr:broke]]
[[ko:broke]]
[[hy:broke]]
[[hi:broke]]
[[kn:broke]]
[[ku:broke]]
[[li:broke]]
[[hu:broke]]
[[ml:broke]]
[[my:broke]]
[[nl:broke]]
[[ja:broke]]
[[no:broke]]
[[pl:broke]]
[[ru:broke]]
[[simple:broke]]
[[fi:broke]]
[[sv:broke]]
[[ta:broke]]
[[th:broke]]
[[chr:broke]]
[[vi:broke]]
[[wa:broke]]
[[zh:broke]]