==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|bruit}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bro͞ot}}, {{IPA|/bruːt/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|uːt|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|brute|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{label|en|archaic}} Rumour, talk, hearsay.
#* '''1590''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:The Third Part of King Henry the Sixth|Henry VI, Part III]]'', Act IV, Scene 7
#*: Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand: / The '''bruit''' thereof will bring you many friends.
#* '''1607''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:The Life of Timon of Athens|The Life of Timon of Athens]]''
#*: But yet I love my country, and am not / One that rejoices in the common wreck, / As common '''bruit''' doth put it.
#* {{quote-book|year=1922|author={{w|Michael Arlen}}|title=[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL1519647W “Piracy”: A Romantic Chronicle of These Days]|chapter=Ep./1/1
|passage=And so it had always pleased M. Stutz to expect great things from the dark young man whom he had first seen in his early twenties ; and his expectations had waxed rather than waned on hearing the faint '''bruit''' of the love of Ivor and Virginia—for Virginia, M. Stutz thought, would bring fineness to a point in a man like Ivor Marlay, […].}}
# {{label|en|medicine}} An [[abnormal]] [[sound]] heard on [[auscultation]]. {{qualifier|French pronunciation}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rumour, hearsay}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|молва́|f}}, {{t+|ru|слу́хи|p}}, {{t|ru|то́лки|p}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|US|archaic British|lang=en}} to [[spread]], [[promulgate]] or [[disseminate]] a rumour, news etc.
#* '''1590''', Thomas Hariot, ''A Brief and True Report of the new found land of Virginia'',
#*: There haue bin diuers and variable reportes with some slaunderous and shamefull speeches '''bruited''' abroade by many that returned from thence.
#* {{circa|1600}} William Shakespeare, ''Hamlet'', Act I, Scene 2, lines 127–128,
#*: And the King's rouse the heaven shall '''bruit''' again,
#*: Re-speaking earthly thunder.
#* '''1997''', Don DeLillo, ''Underworld'',
#*: Paranoid. Now he knew what it meant, this word that was bandied and '''bruited''' so easily, and he sensed the connections being made around him.
#* {{quote-web|date=2010-08-04
|year=
|first=
|last=
|author=Darren Murph
|authorlink=
|title=China's maglev trains to hit 1,000km/h in three years
|site=Engadget
|url=http://www.engadget.com/2010/08/04/chinas-maglev-trains-to-hit-1-000kph-in-three-years-doc-brown/
|archiveorg=
|accessdate=2013-03-18
|passage=… it's '''bruited''' that the tunnel would cost "10 to 20 million yuan …
}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|fr}} {{m|fro|bruit}}, use as a noun of the past participle form of {{m|fr|bruire||to roar}}, from a Proto-Romanic alteration (by association with {{m|fr|braire||cry}}) of Latin {{term|rugire||roar|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-bruit.ogg|audio|lang=fr}}
* {{IPA|/bʁɥi/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# a [[noise]]
# a [[rumor]] or [[report]]

====Derived terms====
* [[bruitage#French|bruitage]]
* [[bruiteur#French|bruiteur]]

===Anagrams===
* [[tribu#French|tribu]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Old French==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=fro}}

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m}}

# [[noise]]; [[sound]]s

====Synonyms====
* {{l|fro|noise}}

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|bruit}}
* French: {{l|fr|bruit}}

[[br:bruit]]
[[cs:bruit]]
[[da:bruit]]
[[de:bruit]]
[[et:bruit]]
[[el:bruit]]
[[es:bruit]]
[[eo:bruit]]
[[eu:bruit]]
[[fa:bruit]]
[[fr:bruit]]
[[ga:bruit]]
[[ko:bruit]]
[[hy:bruit]]
[[io:bruit]]
[[id:bruit]]
[[it:bruit]]
[[sw:bruit]]
[[li:bruit]]
[[hu:bruit]]
[[mg:bruit]]
[[my:bruit]]
[[ja:bruit]]
[[no:bruit]]
[[pl:bruit]]
[[pt:bruit]]
[[ro:bruit]]
[[ru:bruit]]
[[sm:bruit]]
[[fi:bruit]]
[[ta:bruit]]
[[te:bruit]]
[[chr:bruit]]
[[tr:bruit]]
[[vi:bruit]]
[[zh:bruit]]