==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=brush (disambiguation)}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''[[brusshe#Middle English|brusshe]]'' from {{etyl|fro}} ''[[broisse#Old French|broisse]]'' (compare Modern {{etyl|fr|-}} ''[[brosse#French|brosse]]'') from {{proto|Romance|bruscia|bunch of shoots}} of {{etyl|gem}} origin, from {{proto|Germanic|bruskaz|underbrush|lang=en}} from {{proto|Indo-European|bhreus-|to swell, sprout|lang=en}}. Akin to {{etyl|gmh|-}} ''[[bürste#Middle High German|bürste]]'' "brush", {{etyl|ang|-}} ''[[byrst#Old English|byrst]]'' "bristle", {{etyl|gmh|-}} ''[[broz#Middle High German|broz]]'' "a bud, shoot", {{ang}} ''[[breost|brēost]]'' "breast".

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɹʌʃ/}}
* {{audio|en-us-brush.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌʃ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# An [[implement]] consisting of multiple more or less flexible [[bristle]]s or other [[filament|filaments]] attached to a handle, used for any of various purposes including [[clean]]ing, [[paint]]ing, and arranging [[hair]].
# A piece of [[conductive]] material, usually carbon, serving to maintain electrical contact between the stationary and rotating parts of a machine.
# The act of brushing something.
#: ''She gave her hair a quick '''brush'''.''
# {{uncountable}} Wild [[vegetation]], generally larger than grass but smaller than trees.
# A short and sometimes occasional encounter or experience.
#: ''He has had '''brushes''' with communism from time to time.''
# The [[furry]] [[tail]] of an animal, especially of a [[fox]].
# {{music}} An instrument, resembling a brush, used to produce a soft sound from [[drum|drums]] or [[cymbals]].
# {{video games}} In 3D [[video game]]s, a [[convex]] [[polyhedron]], esp. one that defines structure of the play area.
# {{context|poker|slang}} The [[floorperson]] of a poker room, usually in a [[casino]].
# (North [[Wisconsin]], uncountable) Evergreen boughs, especially [[balsam]], locally cut and baled for export, usually for use in wreathmaking.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|implement}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فرشاة|f|tr=furshaa}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|խոզանակ|tr=xozanak}},  {{qualifier|for painting}} {{t-|hy|վրձին|tr=vrjin}}
* [[Bavarian]]: [[Bembsl]] {{m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[broust]] {{m}} (''pl.'', broustoù)
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|четка|f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[raspall]], {{m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|刷子|tr=shuāzi|sc=Hani}},  {{t-|cmn|刷|tr=shuā|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: [[štětec]] {{m}} (''painting''), [[štětka]] {{f}} (''painting''), [[kartáč]] {{m}} (''cleaning'')
* Danish: {{t-|da|børste|c}}
* Dutch: [[borstel]] {{m}}; (''paint-'') [[verfborstel]]; (''hair-'') [[haarborstel]]; (''tooth-'') [[tandenborstel]]
* Estonian: [[pintsel]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harja}} (''cleaning, hair''), {{t-|fi|sivellin}} (''painting'')
* French: {{t+|fr|brosse|f}}
* German: [[Bürste]] {{f}}; (''paint-'') [[Pinsel]] {{m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|מברשת|f|tr=mivréshet}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kefe}}, {{t+|hu|seprű}}; (''paint-'') {{t+|hu|ecset}}
* Icelandic: ("paint-") [[pensill]] {{m}} ("hair-") [[bursti]] {{m}}, [[hárbursti]] {{m}} ("tooth-") [[tannbursti]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|pinselo|xs=Ido}} (''painting''),  {{t+|io|brosilo|xs=Ido}} (''cleaning'')
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|sikat|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spazzola|f}}, {{t+|it|pennello|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|刷子|tr=さっし, sasshi, はけ, hake}},  {{t|ja|ブラシ|tr=burashi}}
* Kurdish:
*: Kurmanji: {{t|ku|firçe}} {{f}}, {{t|ku|havlêk}} {{f}}, {{t|ku|rînek}} {{f}},
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|فرچه‌|tr=fircha|sc=ku-Arab}}
* [[Novial]]: [[brose]]
* Polish: {{t+|pl|szczotka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|brocha|f}} (''for painting''), {{t+|pt|escova|f}} (''for hair or cleanliness'')
* Romanian: [[perie]] {{f}}; (''paint-'') [[pensulă]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|щётка|f|tr=ščótka}}; (''paint-'') {{t|ru|кисть|f|tr=kistʹ}}
* Serbian: [[četka]] {{f}}, [[četkica]] {{f}}, [[kist]] {{m}}, [[kičica]] {{f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|čopič|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cepillo|m}},  {{t-|es|escobilla|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|borste|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[కుంచె]] (for painting)
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|bàn chải|xs=Vietnamese}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|electrical contact}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|четка|f}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|borstel|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harja}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bürste|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[ブラシ]] (burashi), [[刷子]] (さっし, sasshi)
* Romanian: [[perie]] {{f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|щётка|f|tr=ščótka}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of brushing}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|четкане|n}}
* [[Catalan]]: raspallar
* Danish: {{t-|da|børste}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|harjaus}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הברשה|f|tr=havrashá}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[ブラシがけ]](burashigake), [[磨き]] (みがき, migaki)
* [[Novial]]: [[broso]]
* Romanian: [[periat]] {{n}}
* Serbian: [[četkanje]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|cepillado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wild vegetation}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|гъсталак|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pensaikko}}
* German: {{t+|de|Busch|n}},  {{t+|de|Gebüsch|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[куст]] (kust) {{m}}; [[кустарник]] (kustarnik) {{m}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|žbun|m}}, {{t-|sr|žbunje|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|matorral|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|short experience}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|kosketus}} (''neutral''), {{t|fi|hankaus}} (''antagonistic'')
* French: {{t+|fr|accrochage|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[incontro]] {{m}}; [[scontro]] {{m}}
* Spanish: [[pincelada]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|furry tail}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-|bg|опашка|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Lunte}}, {{t+|de|Standarte}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[尾]] (お, o)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|труба|f|tr=trubá}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|music: instrument}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|harja}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|brushes|brushing|brushed}}

# To [[clean]] with a brush.
#: '''''Brush''' your teeth.''
# To [[untangle]] or arrange with a brush.
#: '''''Brush''' your hair.''
# To [[apply]] with a brush.
#: '''''Brush''' the paint onto the walls.''
# To [[remove]] with a sweeping motion.
#: '''''Brush''' the flour off your clothes.''
# To [[touch]] with a sweeping motion.
#: ''Her scarf '''brushed''' his skin.''
#* '''1990''' October 28, [[w:Paul Simon|Paul Simon]], “Further to Fly”, ''[[w:The Rhythm of the Saints|The Rhythm of the Saints]]'', Warner Bros.
#*: Maybe you will find a love that you discover accidentally, who falls against you gently as a pickpocket '''brushes''' your thigh.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to clean (with a brush)}}
* [[Bavarian]]: [[bembsln]]
* [[Breton]]: [[broustañ]]
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|четкам}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|børste}}
* Dutch: [[borstelen]]; [[poetsen]]; [[vegen]]
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|harjata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|brosser}}
* German: {{t+|de|putzen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|הבריש|tr=hivrísh}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|sikál}}
* [[Ido]]: [[brosar]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|sikat|alt=menyikat|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spazzolare}}
* Japanese: [[磨く]] ([[みがく]], migaku)
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|فرچه‌ کردن|tr=fircha kirdin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t-|pl|szczotkować}}
* Romanian: [[peria]]
* Serbian: [[očetkati]], [[izčetkati]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|umiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cepillar}}
* Swedish: [[borsta]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to untangle/arrange}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|сресвам с четка}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|borstelen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|harjata}}
* French: ([[se brosser|se]]) [[se brosser|brosser]]
* German: {{t+|de|bürsten}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kefél}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spazzolare}}, {{t-|it|spazzolarsi}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|شانه‌ کردن|tr=shAna kirdin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Romanian: [[peria]]
* Serbian: [[razmrsiti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cepillar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to apply}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|aanbrengen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sivellä}}
* German: [[pinseln]]; [[auftragen]]
* Italian: {{t-|it|spennellare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[塗る]](ぬる, nuru)
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|vopsi}}, {{t-|ro|picta}}
* Serbian: [[naneti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aplicar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to remove}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|изчетквам}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afborstelen}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|harjata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|brosser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|wischen}}
* Romanian: [[mătura]]
* Serbian: [[ukloniti]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recoger}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to touch}}
* Dutch: ([[van de tafel vegen|van de tafel]]) [[vegen]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|koskettaa}}, {{t+|fi|hipaista}}
* German: {{t|de|streifen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|şterge}}
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|dodirnuti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|rozar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun or verb "brush"}}
* [[as daft as a brush]]
* [[bottle brush]]
* [[bristle brush]]
* [[broad brush]]
* [[brush aside]]
* [[brush back]]
* [[brush by]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[brush off]]
* [[brushfire]]
* [[brush-off]]
* [[brushtail]]
* [[brushy]]
* [[hairbrush]]
* [[paintbrush]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[paint with a broad brush]]
* [[scrub brush]]
* [[shaving brush]]
* [[toothbrush]]
* [[underbrush]]
* [[wire brush]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[broom]]
* [[comb]]

===Anagrams===
* [[shrub]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Hair]]

[[ar:brush]]
[[de:brush]]
[[el:brush]]
[[fa:brush]]
[[fr:brush]]
[[ko:brush]]
[[hy:brush]]
[[io:brush]]
[[id:brush]]
[[it:brush]]
[[kn:brush]]
[[ku:brush]]
[[lo:brush]]
[[lv:brush]]
[[lt:brush]]
[[hu:brush]]
[[ml:brush]]
[[nl:brush]]
[[ja:brush]]
[[pl:brush]]
[[pt:brush]]
[[ru:brush]]
[[simple:brush]]
[[fi:brush]]
[[sv:brush]]
[[ta:brush]]
[[te:brush]]
[[th:brush]]
[[tr:brush]]
[[uk:brush]]
[[vi:brush]]
[[zh:brush]]