{{wikipedia|dab=buff}}
{{also|BUFF}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ʌf|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{term|buffe||lang=en|leather}}, from {{etyl|frm|en}} {{term|buffle||lang=frm|[[buffalo]]}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Undyed [[leather]] from the skin of [[buffalo]] or similar animals.
#* Shakespeare
#*: a suit of '''buff'''
# A tool, often one covered with buff leather, used for polishing.
# A brownish yellow colour.
#: {{color panel|F0DC82}}
#* Dryden
#*: a visage rough, deformed, unfeatured, and a skin of '''buff'''
# A military coat made of buff leather.
#: {{rfquotek|Shakespeare}}
# {{context|informal|lang=en}} A person who is very interested in a particular subject; an [[enthusiast]].
#: ''He’s a real history '''buff'''. He knows everything there is to know about the [[civil war]].''
# {{context|gaming|lang=en}} An effect that temporally makes a gaming character stronger.
#: ''I just picked up an epic damage buff! Lets go [[gank]] the other team!''
# {{context|rail transport|lang=en}} Compressive coupler force that occurs during a slack bunched condition.
# The bare skin.
#: ''to strip to the '''buff'''''
#* Wright
#*: To be in '''buff''' is equivalent to being naked.
# The greyish [[viscid]] [[substance]] constituting the [[buffy coat]].
# A substance used to dilute (street) drugs in order to increase profits.
#* ''Police said the 20 ton hydraulic jack was used to press mixtures of cocaine and "buff" into bricks. (CBC)''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[in the buff]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|video games}} [[debuff]]
* {{sense|video games}} [[nerf]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|a person who is very interested in a particular subject}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|liefhebber}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|friikki}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mordu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|díograiseoir|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aficionado|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fantast|c}}, {{t+|sv|entusiast|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A brownish yellow colour}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ruskeankeltainen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chamois}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|color del ante}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# Of the color of buff leather, a brownish yellow.
# {{context|bodybuilding|lang=en}}: Unusually muscular. (also ''buffed'' or ''buffed out'')
#: ''The bouncer was a big, '''buff''' dude with tattoos, a shaved head, and a serious scowl.''
#* '''1994''', ''Blurred Boundaries: Questions of Meaning in Contemporary Culture'', page 155:
#*: The appearance of logic often derives from faulty syllogisms such as Sgt. Koon's conclusion that King was an [[ex-con]] because he was "'''buffed out'''" (heavily muscled). The thinking is: "ex-cons are often buffed out; this man is buffed out; therefore, this man is an ex-con."
# {{context|slang|lang=en}} [[attractive]].

=====Derived terms=====
* [[buff-tip moth]]
* [[buffly]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Of the color of buff leather, a brownish yellow}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ruskeankeltainen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chamois}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Unusually muscular}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|lihaksikas}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Good looking}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[polish]] and make [[shiny]] by [[rub|rubbing]].
#: {{ux|en|He was already '''buffing''' the car's hubs.}}
# {{context|gaming|lang=en}} To make a character stronger.
#: ''The enchanter '''buffed''' the paladin to prepare him to fight the dragon.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[buff out]]
* [[buff up]]
* [[buff wheel]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to make smooth and shiny by rubbing}}  [[wax]],  [[shine]],  [[polish]], [[furbish]], [[burnish]]

=====Antonyms=====
* {{sense|video games}} [[debuff]]
* {{sense|video games}} [[nerf]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|To polish and make shiny}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kiillottaa}}
* German: {{t+|de|polieren}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|полирова́ть}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|vyleštiť}} {{t|sk|vyblýskať}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|polera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[Appendix:Colors]]

[[Category:en:Browns]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|fro|en}} {{term|bufer|lang=fro||to cuff, buffet}}. See {{term|buffet|lang=en||a blow}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[strike]].
#: {{rfquotek|Ben Jonson}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A [[buffet]]; a [[blow]].
#* Spenser
#*: Nathless so sore a '''buff''' to him it lent / That made him reel.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[blind man's buff]]

[[ca:buff]]
[[de:buff]]
[[et:buff]]
[[fa:buff]]
[[fr:buff]]
[[ko:buff]]
[[hy:buff]]
[[io:buff]]
[[is:buff]]
[[it:buff]]
[[kn:buff]]
[[ku:buff]]
[[li:buff]]
[[hu:buff]]
[[mg:buff]]
[[ml:buff]]
[[my:buff]]
[[pl:buff]]
[[ro:buff]]
[[ru:buff]]
[[fi:buff]]
[[ta:buff]]
[[te:buff]]
[[vi:buff]]
[[zh:buff]]