{{also|büg|Bug|búg|buug}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
1620 (referring to a {{l|en|bedbug}}); from earlier {{term|bugge|lang=en}} 'beetle', conflation of (1) {{etyl|enm}} {{term|bugge|lang=enm}} 'scarecrow, hobgoblin', from {{proto|Germanic|ƀugja}} 'swollen up, thick' (cf. Norwegian {{term|bugge|lang=no}} 'big man', Low German dialect {{term|Bögge|lang=nds}} 'goblin, snot'); and (2) {{etyl|enm}} {{term|budde|lang=enm}} 'beetle', from Old English {{term|-budda|lang=ang}} (cf. {{term|scearnbudda|lang=en}} 'dung beetle'), from {{proto|Germanic|ƀuđđōn}} (compare Low German {{term|Budde|lang=nds}} 'louse, grub', Norwegian {{term|budda|lang=no}} 'newborn domestic animal'). More at {{l|en|bud}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|bŭg}}, {{IPA|/bʌɡ/}}, {{SAMPA|/bVg/}}
* {{audio|en-us-bug.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌɡ}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[insect]] of the [[order]] [[Hemiptera]] (the "true bugs").
# A [[colloquial]] name for any [[insect]], [[arachnid]] or other terrestrial [[arthropod]] that is a [[pest]].
#: ''These flies are a bother. I’ll get some '''bug''' spray and kill them.''
# Various species of marine [[crustacean]]s; e.g. a [[Morton Bay bug]].
# A [[problem]] that needs [[fixing]], especially in computing.
#: ''The software '''bug''' led the computer to calculate 2 plus 2 as 5.''
# A contagious [[illness]]; a bacterium or virus causing it
#: ''He’s got the flu '''bug'''.''
# An [[enthusiasm]] for something; an [[obsession]]
#: ''I think he’s a gold '''bug''', he has over 10,000 ounces in storage.''
#: ''to catch the skiing '''bug'''''
# An [[electronic]] intercept [[device]]
#: ''We installed a '''bug''' in her telephone''
# A small and and usually invisible file (traditionally a single [[pixel]] [[image]]) on a [[World Wide Web]] page, primarily used to track users.
#: ''He suspected the image was a web '''bug''' used for determining who was visiting the site.''
# A small, usually [[transparent]] or [[translucent]] [[image]] placed in a corner of a [[television]] program to indicate what [[network]] or cable channel is televising it
#: ''Channel 4's '''bug''' distracted Jim from his favorite show''
# {{aviation}} A manually positioned marker in [[flight instruments]]
# A semi-automated [[telegraph key]]
#* '''1938''', Paul Gallico, ''Farewell to Sport'', p257
#*: At this point your telegraph operator, sitting at your right, goes "Ticky-tick-tickety-de-tick-tick," with his '''bug''', as he calls his transmitter, and looks at you expectantly.
#* '''1942''', Arthur Reinhold Nilson, ''Radio Code Manual'', p134
#*: As far as the dashes are concerned, the '''bug''' is the same in operation as any regular key would be if it were turned up on edge instead of sitting flat on the desk.
#* '''1986''', E. L. Doctorow, ''World's Fair'', p282
#*: I was a very good radio operator. I bought my own '''bug'''. That's what the telegraph key in its modern form was called. It was semiautomatic.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|An intercept device}} [[wiretap]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:defect]]

====Derived terms====
* [[buglet]]
* [[debug]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|an insect of the order Hemiptera}}
* Chinese: [[臭蟲]], [[臭虫]] (chòu chóng)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|buba|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|insect|n}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|lude}}
* French: {{t+|fr|insecte|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wanze|f}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|ensèk}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|cimice|f}}, {{t|it|insetto|m}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|chʼosh}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|ساس|tr=sâs|xs=Persian}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|клоп|m|tr=klop}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|hrošč|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|chinche|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|böcek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a colloquial name for insect}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t-|eu|zomorro|xs=Basque}},  {{t-|eu|insektu|xs=Basque}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|буболечка|f}}
* Chinese: [[蟲]], [[虫]] (chóng)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|insect|n}},  {{t-|nl|beestje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ötökkä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|insecte|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wanze|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοριός|m|tr=coriós}}, {{t+|el|ζωύφιο|n|tr=zoýfio}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|ensèk}}
* Hebrew: [[חרק]] (h(χ)arak) {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[bacarozzo]] {{m}}
* Japanese: [[虫]] (mushi)
* Maltese: [[insett żgħir]] {{m}}
* Polish: [[robak]], [[robal]] {{m}}, [[owad]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bicho|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|насекомое|n|tr=nasekómoje}}
* Slovene: [[žužek]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bicho|m}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|böcek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|various species of marine crustaceans}}
* French: {{t|fr|cigale de mer|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|problem that needs fixing (especially in computing)}}
* Chinese: [[錯誤]], [[错误]] (cuò wù)
* Czech: {{t+|cs|chyba|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bug|m}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|bugi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bogue|m}}, {{t|fr|bug}}
* German:
*:* In software: [[Fehler]] {{m}} , [[Fehlfunktion]] {{f}}
* Greek:
*:* In software: [[σφάλμα]]  {{n}}
*:* In hardware: [[ελάττωμα]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[באג]] (bug) {{m}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|malfunzionamento|m}}, {{t+|it|errore|m}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|general}} {{t|ja|不具合|tr=fuguai}}; {{qualifier|general}} {{t|ja|バグ|tr=bagu}}
* Maltese: [[bagg]] {{m}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|باگ|tr=bâg|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|byk|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|defeito|m}}, {{t+|pt|falha|f}}
* Russian: [[баг]] (bag) {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|hrošč|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|contagious illness, bacteria, virus}}
* Chinese: [[病菌]], [[病菌]] (bìng jùn)
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|pöpö}}
* French: {{t|fr|microbe|m}}, {{t|fr|virus|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ungeziefer|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ιός|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|batterio|m}}, {{t+|it|virus|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ばい菌|tr=baikin}}
* Maltese: [[infezzjoni]], [[vajrus]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an enthusiasm for something}}
* Chinese: [[熱衷]], [[热衷]] (rè zhōng)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuume}}, {{t+|fi|kärpänen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|virus|m}}, {{t|fr|manie|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: [[חידק]] (H(χ)aidak, lit. [[Bacteria]])
* Italian: {{t+|it|morbo|m}}, {{t|it|passione|f}}, {{t|it|mania|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|熱|tr=netsu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an electronic listening device}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бръмбар|m}}
* Chinese: [[竊聽器]], [[窃听器]] (qiē tīng qì)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|štěnice|f}}
* Finnish: [[salakuuntelulaite]],[[kuuntelulaite]]
* French: {{t+|fr|mouchard|m}}, {{t|fr|micro|m}}, {{t|fr|écoute|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wanze|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοριός|m|tr=coriós}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[מיקרופון]] (Microphon, lit. [[Microphone]])
* Italian: {{t-|it|cimice|f}}, {{t|it|microspia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|盗聴器|tr=tōchōki}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pluskwa|f}}
* Portuguese: {{qualifier|Brazil}} [[grampo]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|жучок|m|tr=žučók}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a small or invisible image on a World Wide Web page}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|pixel de tracking|m}}, {{t|fr|traceur|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a small image placed in a corner of a television program}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|logo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|logo|m}}
* Hebrew: [[סמל]] (Semel, lit. [[Symbol]])
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: [[logo]] della [[rete]]{{m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|logo|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|manually positioned marker in flight instruments}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a card cheat's bug is a holdout device}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|a semi-automated telegraph key}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[insekt]] {{m}} (1), [[buba]] {{f}} (2), [[bakcil]] {{m}} (4)
* {{ttbc|Catalan}}: [1] [[xinxa]] {{f}} [[:ca:xinxa|^]]
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[punaise]]
* {{ttbc|Korean}}: [[벌레]] (boelle)
* {{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[insekt]] {{n}} (2), [[feil]] {{m}} (3), [[bakterie]] {{m}} (4)
* {{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[inzekt]], [[chrobák]] {{m}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[Balmain bug]]
* [[bedbug]]
* [[bug-eyed]]
* [[gold bug]]
* [[lightning bug]]
{{mid2}}
* [[mealybug]]
* [[mirid bug]]
* [[Morton Bay bug]]
* [[shield bug]]
* [[snug as a bug in a rug]]
* [[travel bug]]
* [[true bug]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|bugs|bugging|bugged}}

# {{context|informal|transitive}} To [[annoy]].
#: ''Don’t '''bug''' me, I’m busy!''
# {{transitive}} To [[install]] an electronic [[listening]] device or devices in.
#: ''We need to know what’s going on.  We’ll '''bug''' his house.''

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Wikisaurus:annoy]]

====Derived terms====
* [[bug out]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to annoy}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[煩擾]], [[烦扰]] (fán rǎo)
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|häiritä}}, {{t+|fi|ärsyttää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ennuyer}}, {{t+|fr|embêter}}, {{t+|fr|agacer}}, {{t+|fr|enquiquiner}}, {{qualifier|vulgar}} {{t+|fr|emmerder}}
* German: {{t+|de|nerven}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|τρώω}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|infastidire}},  {{t+|it|scocciare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|邪魔をする|tr=jama wo suru}}
* Polish: {{qualifier|informal and usually impolite}} [[wkurzać]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chatear}}
* Slovene: [[živcirati]] (colloq)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kızdırmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to install an electronic listening device in}}
* {{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[安裝竊聽器]] [[安装窃听器]] (ān zhuāng qiē tīng qì)
* Finnish: [[asentaa]] [[salakuuntelulaite]]
* French: {{t+|fr|poser}} [[un]] {{t+|fr|mouchard}} / un {{t+|fr|micro}}, {{t-|fr|mettre sur écoute}}
* German: {{t-|de|verwanzen}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|spiare}},  {{t-|it|intercettare}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|盗聴器を仕掛ける|tr=tōchōki wo shikakeru}}
* Polish: [[zakładać]] [[pluskwę]]
* Portuguese: {{qualifier|Brazil}} [[grampear]]
* Slovene: [[namestiti prisluškovalno napravo]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
{{projectlinks
|pedia|page1=Hemiptera
|species|page2=Hemiptera
|commons|page3=Category:Hemiptera|label3=Hemiptera
|pedia|page4=Software bug
}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|bgu}}
* [[gub#English|gub]]

[[Category:Insects]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===

From {{etyl|non|da}} {{term|búkr|lang=non}}.

===Noun===
{{da-noun|en|e}}

# [[stomach]]
# [[abdomen]]
# [[belly]]

====Inflection====
{{da-noun-infl|en|e}}

[[ar:bug]]
[[zh-min-nan:bug]]
[[et:bug]]
[[el:bug]]
[[es:bug]]
[[fa:bug]]
[[fr:bug]]
[[io:bug]]
[[kn:bug]]
[[lt:bug]]
[[hu:bug]]
[[ml:bug]]
[[mr:bug]]
[[my:bug]]
[[nl:bug]]
[[ja:bug]]
[[pl:bug]]
[[ro:bug]]
[[ru:bug]]
[[simple:bug]]
[[fi:bug]]
[[sv:bug]]
[[ta:bug]]
[[te:bug]]
[[tr:bug]]
[[tk:bug]]
[[vi:bug]]
[[vo:bug]]
[[zh:bug]]