{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
'''[[bull]]''' + '''[[shit]]'''. In use since the 1920s.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{vulgar|slang}} False or exaggerated statements made to impress the listener rather than deceive.
#: ''Don't pay any attention to him.  He talks a lot of bullshit.''
# {{vulgar|slang}} A [[card game]] in which the object is to bluff about cards laid down and to determine when one's opponents are bluffing.
#: ''Anyone want to play a few hands of bullshit?''
# {{vulgar|slang}} An object of frustration and/or disgust, often caused by a perceived deception.
#: ''"This is bullshit!" -- The Monarch''
#: ''That's bullshit!  I called your office and they said you never came in!''
# {{literally}} The faeces of a bull.

====See also====
* [[bullcrap]]
* [[horseshit]]
* [[WikiSaurus:nonsense]]

====Synonyms====
* [[BS]]
* [[bull]]
* [[bulldada]]
* [[bull puckey]]
* [[bushwah]]
* {{sense|card game}} [[cheat]], [[I doubt it]]

====Derived terms====
* [[bullshoot]]
* [[bullshot]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|deceitful statements, etc}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|sranje|n}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|gelul}}, {{t-|nl|onzin}}, {{t-|nl|bullshit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paskapuhe}}, {{t-|fi|hevonpaska}}
* French: {{t+|fr|conneries|f|p}}
* Greek: {{t|el|μαλακίες|f|p|tr=malakíes}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|süketelés}}, {{t+|hu|duma}}, {{t|hu|süket duma}}, {{t|hu|hülyítés}}, {{t+|hu|kamu}}, {{t|hu|blöff}}, {{t-|hu|humbug}}, {{t|hu|mese habbal}}, {{t|hu|szófosás}}
* Icelandic: [[kjaftæði]] {{n}}, [[bull]] {{n}}, [[þvættingur]] {{m}}
* Indonesian: [[cuma ngomong gede]]
* Italian: {{t|it|coglionate|f|p}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|срање|n|tr=sránje}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|mengarut|xs=Malay}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|pisspreik}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|gówno prawda}},  {{t|pl|pierdoły|p}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|rahat, căcat|n}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пиздёж|m|tr=pizdjóž}}, {{t+|ru|хуйня|m|tr=xujnjá}}, {{t|ru|херня|m|tr=xernjá}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[срање#Serbian|срање]] {{n}}
*: Roman: [[sranje#Serbian|sranje]] {{n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tontería}}, {{t+|es|pendejada|f|alt=pendejadas}}, {{t-|es|idiotez}}, {{t+|es|huevada}}, {{t+|es|mierda}}, {{t+|es|caca}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|skitsnack}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ล้อเล่น|tr=lór lên}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|card game}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|fusku}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|lygari|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|верю-не-верю|tr=v'ér'u-n'e-v'ér'u}} ''(lit: I believe - I don't believe)''
* Spanish: {{t|es|Desconfío}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|bluffstopp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object of frustration}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|sranje|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paska}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|пиздёж|m|tr=pizdjóž}}, {{t+|ru|хуйня|m|tr=xujnjá}}, {{t|ru|херня|m|tr=xernjá}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[срање#Serbian|срање]] {{n}}
*: Roman: [[sranje#Serbian|sranje]] {{n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|bullshits|bullshitting|'''[[bullshitted]]''', ''or sometimes'' '''bullshit''', ''or very rarely'' '''bullshat'''}}

# {{vulgar|slang}} To tell lies, [[exaggerate]]; to [[mislead]]; to [[deceive]].
#: ''I think you're bullshitting.  Let’s just call your office and see if you even came in.''
#: ''You’re '''bullshitting''' me.  I called your office and you never even came in.''
#: ''He caught my attention with irrelevant asides that didn’t quite make sense, but sounded very erudite if you didn’t think about it too much. In other words, I noticed that he was '''bullshitting'''.'' http://www.languagehat.com/archives/002815.php
# {{vulgar|slang}} To have casual conversation with no real point.
#: ''I will probably just go and '''bullshit''' with Joe for awhile.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to tell lies, exaggerate}}
* Finnish: [[puhua paskaa]]
* Latvian: [[diršana]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пиздеть|tr=pizd'ét'}}, {{t|ru|дурить|tr=durít'}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[เว่อ]]}} (wêr), {{Thai|[[โม้]]}} (móh)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to have casual conversation with no real point}}
* Finnish: [[puhua paskaa]], [[jauhaa]] [[paska|paskaa]]
* Latvian: [[sūdu gvelšana]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пиздеть|tr=pizd'ét'}}, {{t|ru|базарить|tr=bazárit'}}, {{t|ru|чесать языком|tr=česát' jazykóm}} ''(lit: to scratch with tongue)''
* Thai: {{Thai|[[ไร้สาระ]]}} (ráisăará)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|French}}: [[dire]] des [[conneries]]
* {{ttbc|Greek}}: [[δουλεύω]] (dulevo)
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Italian}}: [[dire]] [[coglionate]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[huevear]], decir [[tontería]]s
* {{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[snacka skit]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
'''bullshit!'''

# {{vulgar|slang}} An expression of disbelief at what one has just heard.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|bullshit!}}
* Chinese: {{t|cmn|狗屁|tr=gǒupì|sc=Hani}}! (literally "dog fart")
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|onzin}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|paskanmarjat}}! {{t|fi|ja paskat}}!
* French: {{t|fr|mon œil}}!
* Indonesian: [[cuma ngomong gede]]
* Latvian: [[nedirs]]!
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Macedonian]]: [[не сери]]! (ne séri!)
* Polish: {{t|pl|pierdolisz}}!
* Russian: {{t|ru|пиздишь|tr=pizdíš}}!, {{t|ru|не пизди|tr=n'e pizdí}}!
* Spanish: ¡{{t-|es|tonterías}}!, ¡{{t-|es|pendejadas}}!, ¡{{t|es|huevadas}}!
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skit}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|ขี้โม้|tr=kêe móh}}!
{{trans-bottom}}

[[bs:bullshit]]
[[fr:bullshit]]
[[id:bullshit]]
[[hu:bullshit]]
[[pl:bullshit]]
[[ru:bullshit]]
[[simple:bullshit]]
[[fi:bullshit]]
[[vi:bullshit]]
[[zh:bullshit]]