==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[BFE]]
* [[bumfuck]]
* [[bumfuck nowhere]]; [[Bumfuck, Nowhere]]
* [[Bumfuck, Ohio]]
* [[Bumfuck, Idaho]]
* [[Bumfuck, Iowa]]
* [[East Bumfuck]]

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|head=[[bumfuck|Bumfuck]], [[Egypt]]}}

# {{label|en|vulgar|idiomatic|US|originally|military slang}} The [[middle of nowhere]].
#* '''1991''', William H. Labarge, ''Hornet's Nest'', p. 96
#*: One screwup and he could be splitting rocks on a chain gang somewhere in '''Bumfuck, Egypt'''.

====Synonyms====
* See: [[Wikisaurus:remote place]]
* [[Bumblefuck]]
* [[Woop Woop]] {{qualifier|Australia}}
* [[the Black Stump]] {{qualifier|Australia}}
* [[The boonies]]

===References===
* {{cite-book|author=Elting, John R., Dan Cragg, Ernest Deal|year=1984|title=A Dictionary of Soldier Talk|location=New York|publisher=Scribner|page=43}}

[[Category:English terms spelled with ,]]

===Origin===

*the term is common in military circles, but it's origin can be debated. US soldiers campaigning in North Africa during WW2 used the term, and definitely popularized it (See above References). When Napoleon aimed to conquer Egypt in 1798, the region was part of the Ottoman empire, where mameluke beys (warlords) ruled over various territories. The mamelukes were often child slaves harvested from the Caucasus and used as sexual slaves by their male owners while being trained to be warriors. Upon becoming adults, they received a wife, land to control and some sex-slaves of their own, and they usually had ongoing territorial skirmishes with other mamelukes. One of the political motives of the invasion of Egypt was to bring the ideals of the European Enlightenment to what Napoleon considered to be a backward, barbarian land of the "Mohammedans" but shortly after they invaded Admiral Lord Horatio Nelson sunk the French fleet in the harbor of Alexandria and quickly took control of the region, leaving many French soldiers to die of dehydration and guerrilla warfare tactics of the local Egyptians while they waited for a few years for a boat ride home. Considering the popular use of the word "bum" by the British, it is possible that knowledge of Mamelukes who "bumfucked" Caucasian slaves left many European soldiers jokingly saying as they marched through vast regions of desert that they were "in Bum Fuck, Egypt.

*For more reading on the above see: 

*Brandt, Anthony. “French Fiasco In Egypt.” Military History, September 2010, 40-47. 
*Brier, Bob. “Napoleon In Egypt.” Archaeology, 52 no. 3 (May-Jun 1999): 44-53.
*Curran, Brian A. Obelisk. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2009.