{{also|burma|Búrma}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|my|en}} {{term|ဗမာ|tr=băma|lang=my}},see {{term|Myanmar|lang=en}} for more.
 name of this country is not Myanmar.It's Burma.Some people think that the government uses the word "Myanmar" and the others "Burma".But it is not true. Myanmar is the name of a nationality and Burma is the name of the whole country.The word "Burma" didn't exist until 1930.
During the period in which the people of our country were trying to get the independence,an association called "Dou Bamar" appeared!!(dou=we,Bamar=burmans)Thakin Ba Thaung,one of the three founders of that association gave the name of the association as Dou Bamar.Thakhin Ba Thaung thought that the name of the assocation shouldn't be "Dou Myanmar" because Myanmar stands only for one nationality.So,he created a new word.He said that he chose the alphabet ဗfor Bamar instead of the alphabet ဘ because the sound of the alphabet ဘis not constant.Sometimes,it becomes soft.The word "Burma" appeared from that day onwards.
CREDIT TO
1)The history of Dou Bamar Association {Part 1,Part2}
2)Thakhins and their endeavours for independence(1930-1945) by Tet ka thou Sein Tin.
3)Thakhin Pho Hla Gyi and 1300* revolution 
4)Thakhin Ba Thaung and Myanmar Poliics by Tin Tun Aung

1300* Myanmar Year
When the Senior General Saw Maung was ruling the country,he changed the name of our country as Myanmar.Even the words in the songs(eg,national anthem)were changed.
Some song writers at that time had to compose songs(by force) using the word "Myanmar" as country and "Burma" as nationality.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|En-us-Burma.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɜː(r)mə}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# [[Burma]]; a country in [[Southeast Asia]], on the west coast of the [[w:Indochina Peninsula|Indochina Peninsula]].

====Usage notes====
''Burma'' was the official name of [[Myanmar]] until 1989.  It is still used to express disapproval of the military government which changed the name. See {{w|Names of Burma}} on Wikipedia.

====Related terms====
* [[Burmese]]

====Translations====
{{trans-see|Myanmar}}

{{trans-top|Southeast Asian country (former name)}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|بورما|f|tr=būrma}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Բիրմա|tr=Birma}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|বার্মা|tr=barma|sc=Beng}}, {{t|bn|ব্রহ্মদেশ|tr=brôhmôdesh|sc=Beng}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|ဗမာ|tr=băma|sc=Mymr}}, {{t+|my|မြန်မာ|tr=myanma|sc=Mymr}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|Birmània|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|緬甸|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|缅甸|tr=Miǎndiàn|sc=Hani}}
*: Min Nan: {{t|nan|緬甸|tr=Bián-tián|sc=Hans}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|Barma|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|Burma}}, {{t|da|Myanmar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|Birma}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Birmo}}
* {{trreq|et}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|Burma}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Birmanie}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|Birmania}}
* {{trreq|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|Birma}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Βιρμανία|f|tr=Virmanía|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|בורמה|f|tr=burma}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|बरमा|tr=barmā|sc=Deva}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|Burma}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|Birmania}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Birmania}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ビルマ|tr=Biruma}}
* Kalenjin: {{t|kln|Bama}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|ប្រទេសភូមា|tr=prɑteih pʰuumie|sc=Khmr}}, {{t+|km|ភូមា|sc=Khmr|tr=pʰuumie}}
* Kikuyu: {{t|ki|Bama}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|미얀마|tr=Miyanma|sc=Hang}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ພະມ້າ|tr=pha'-maa|sc=Laoo}}
* {{trreq|lv}}
* Luhya: {{t|luy|Bama}}
* Luo: {{t|luo|Bama}}
* Macedonian: {{t+|mk|Бурма|f|tr=Búrma}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Burma}}
* Meru: {{t|mer|Bama}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|Burma}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|برمه|tr=Berme|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Birma|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Birmânia|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|Бирма|f|tr=Bírma}}, {{t+|ru|Мьянма|f|tr=M'jánma}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|Мијанмар|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|Бурма|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|Mijanmar|m}}, {{t|sh|Burma|f}}
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|බුරුමය|tr=burumaya|sc=Sinh}}, {{t|si|මියන්‍මාරය|tr=miyanmāraya|sc=Sinh}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Birmania|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|Bama}}, {{t|sw|Myama}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|Burma}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|พม่า|tr=pámâa}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|برما|m|tr=barmā|sc=ur-Arab}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|Myanma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the world]]

===Anagrams===
* [[rumba#English|rumba]]
* [[umbra#English|umbra]]

[[Category:en:Burma]]
[[Category:en:Countries of Asia]]

----

==Finnish==
{{wikipedia|lang=fi}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{l/en|Burma}}

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-koira|Burm|nopl=1}}

===Anagrams===
* [[rumba#Finnish|rumba]]

[[Category:fi:Burma]]
[[Category:fi:Countries]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Proper noun===
{{no-proper noun}}

# {{l/en|Burma}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l/no|Myanmar}} {{qualifier|official, but rarely used}}

====Related terms====
* {{l/no|burmeser}}, {{l/no|myanmarer}}
* {{l/no|burmesisk}}, {{l/no|myanmarsk}}

[[Category:no:Burma]]
[[Category:no:Countries]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bûːrma/|lang=sh}}
* {{hyphenation|Bur|ma}}

===Proper noun===
{{sh-proper noun|g=f|head=Bȗrma|r|Бурма|Бу̑рма}}

# {{l/en|Burma}}

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun-unc
|Burma
|Burme
|Burmi
|Burmu
|Burmo
|Burmi
|Burmom
}}

[[Category:sh:Burma]]
[[Category:sh:Countries]]

----

==Swedish==
{{wikipedia|lang=sv}}

===Proper noun===
{{head|sv|proper noun|g=n}}

# {{l/en|Burma}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l/sv|Myanmar}}

[[Category:sv:Burma]]
[[Category:sv:Countries]]

[[bg:Burma]]
[[cs:Burma]]
[[de:Burma]]
[[et:Burma]]
[[es:Burma]]
[[fr:Burma]]
[[fy:Burma]]
[[gl:Burma]]
[[ko:Burma]]
[[hr:Burma]]
[[io:Burma]]
[[it:Burma]]
[[kn:Burma]]
[[sw:Burma]]
[[ku:Burma]]
[[lt:Burma]]
[[hu:Burma]]
[[mn:Burma]]
[[my:Burma]]
[[nl:Burma]]
[[nn:Burma]]
[[km:Burma]]
[[pl:Burma]]
[[pt:Burma]]
[[ru:Burma]]
[[fi:Burma]]
[[sv:Burma]]
[[ta:Burma]]
[[th:Burma]]
[[tr:Burma]]
[[uk:Burma]]
[[zh:Burma]]