{{also|Appendix:Variations of "bus"}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bʌs/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ʌs|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
Origin uncertain; possibly ultimately imitative. Compare {{cog|ar|بُوسَة|t=kiss}} and {{cog|la|basium}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{lb|en|archaic}} A [[kiss]].
#* {{RQ:Fielding Tom Jones|book=VII|chapter=XIII|passage=Here he gave Jones a hearty '''buss''', shook him by the hand, and took his leave.}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|kiss}} see [[Thesaurus:buss]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb|es}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[kiss]] (either literally or figuratively).
#* '''c. 1616''', Shakespeare, ''King John'', (1623) iii, iv p35:
#*: I will thinke thou smil'st, And '''busse''' thee as thy wife.
#* '''1982''', {{w|TC Boyle}}, ''Water Music'', Penguin 2006, p. 189:
#*: As the repatriated explorer dodges down to '''buss''' the earth […] he is so thoroughly caught up in the rhapsody of the moment that he fails to take into account the traffic behind him.
#* '''2007''', Fiddlehead, ''Winter 61'':
#*: Sam...really was six-ten and his head '''bussed''' the ceiling.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[kiss]].
#* '''2007''', James Isaiah Gabbe, ''LaRue's Maneuvers'', Chapter 10, LaRue, The Blue Light, p259-60:
#*: In the faint glow of a single blue bulb hanging from a clothesline they '''bussed''' and fondled.

=====Synonyms=====
* See also [[Thesaurus:kiss]]

===Etymology 2===

From {{etyl|nl|en}} ''haringbuis''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[w:herring buss|herring buss]], a type of [[shallow]]-[[keel]]ed Dutch fishing boat used especially for [[herring]] fishing.
#* Macaulay
#*: the Dutch whalers and herring '''busses'''

===Etymology 3===

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}

# {{archaic form of|bus|lang=en||passenger vehicle}}
#* Omnibuses, Sketches by Boz by Charles Dickens
#*: We will back the machine in which we make our daily peregrination from the top of Oxford-street to the city, against any '''buss''' on the road, whether it be for the gaudiness of its exterior, the perfect simplicity of its interior, or the native coolness of its cad.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|subs}}

----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=et}}

===Noun===
{{et-noun|bussi|bussi}}

# [[bus]], a vehicle to transport people

====Declension====
{{et-decl-riik|buss|buss|i}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|et|autobuss}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|et|bussijaam}}
* {{l|et|bussipeatus}}
* {{l|et|autobuss}}
* {{l|et|mikrobuss}}
* {{l|et|minibuss}}
* {{l|et|trollibuss}}
* {{l|et|väikebuss}}

----

==Faroese==

===Noun===
{{head|fo|noun form}}

# {{inflection of|bussur||acc|s|lang=fo}}
# {{inflection of|bussur||gen|s|lang=fo}}

----

==Latvian==

===Noun===
{{lv-noun|m|1st}}

# {{lb|lv|slang}} [[bus]] {{gloss|vehicle}}

====Declension====
{{lv-decl-noun|bus|s|1st|extrawidth=-60}}

====Synonyms====
* {{l|lv|autobuss}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==
{{wikipedia|lang=no}}

===Etymology 1===
Either a direct shortening of {{der|nb|la|omnibus||for all}}, [[Appendix:Glossary#dative|dative]] plural of {{m|la|omnis||all}}, or from {{der|nb|en|bus}}, itself a shortening of the Latin word.

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-m1}}

# {{l|en|bus}} (vehicle)
#: ''Tar du '''buss''' til skolen?''
#:: ''Do you get to school by bus?'' (literally: "do you take bus to the school?")
#: ''Jeg gråter heller i en Mercedes enn på '''bussen''', for å si det sånn.'' ([[:w:Anne-Kat. Hærland|Anne-Kat. Hærland]])
#:: ''I'd rather cry in a Mercedes than on the bus, to put it that way.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{der3-u|lang=nb
|busse
|{{l|nb|bussjåfør}}, {{l|nb|buss-sjåfør}}
|bussrute
|busstasjon
|busstur
|ekspressbuss
|luftbuss
|minibuss
|skinnebuss
|skolebuss
|skyttelbuss
|trolleybuss
|turbuss
|turistbuss
}}

=====See also=====
* {{l|nb|omnibus}}
* {{l|nb|bil}}

===Etymology 2===
Uncertain, perhaps akin to ''[[butt]]'', "blunt, thick, rounded".

====Noun====
{{nb-noun-m1}}

# a [[quid]] of [[chewing tobacco]]

=====Usage notes=====
Rarely used.

===References===
* {{R:Ordnett}}
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}
* [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=bus&searchmode=none ''Online Etymology Dictionary'' entry on "bus"]

[[Category:nb:Vehicles]]

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==
{{wikipedia|lang=nn}}

===Etymology 1===
Either a direct shortening of {{der|nn|la|omnibus}}, "for all", [[dative]] plural of ''[[omnis]]'', "all", or from {{der|nn|en|bus}}, itself a shortening of the Latin word.

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|/bʉsː/|lang=no}}

====Noun====
{{nn-noun-m1}}

# {{l|en|bus}} (vehicle)
#: ''Tek du '''buss''' til skulen?''
#:: ''Do you get to school by bus?'' (literally: "do you take bus to the school?")
#: ''Ein '''buss''' er eit kjøretøy som er utforma for å frakte ei mengd passasjerar over ein distanse på veg eller gate.'' ([http://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buss from Nynorsk edition of Wikipedia])
#:: ''A bus is a vehicle designed to transport a group of passengers for a distance along a road or a street.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{der3-u|lang=nn
|busse
|{{l|nn|bussjåfør}}, {{l|nn|buss-sjåfør}}
|bussrute
|busstasjon
|busstur
|ekspressbuss
|luftbuss
|minibuss
|skjenebuss
|{{l|nn|skulebuss}}, {{l|nn|skolebuss}}
|skyttelbuss
|trolleybuss
|turbuss
|turistbuss
}}

=====See also=====
* {{l|nn|omnibus}}
* {{l|nn|bil}}

===Etymology 2===
Uncertain, perhaps akin to ''[[butt]]'', "blunt, thick, rounded".

====Noun====
{{nn-noun-m1}}

# a [[quid]] of [[chewing tobacco]]

=====Usage notes=====
Rarely used.

===Etymology 3===
Perhaps from [[Low German]] or [[Dutch]], compare ''[[boezem]]'' and its [[English]] cognate and equivalent ''[[bosom]]''.

====Alternative forms====
* {{l|nn|bus}}

====Noun====
{{nn-noun-m1}}

# The middel, curved part of a filled [[sail]], fishing [[net]] or [[seine]].

=====Usage notes=====
Very rarely used.

===Etymology 4===
From {{der|nn|nds|busse}}, "short case or ring of metal for lining of an axle, shaft or bolt".

====Noun====
{{nn-noun-m1}}

# a [[hopper]] in a mill
# an iron ring surrounding such a hopper

===References===
* {{R:Ordnett}}
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}
* [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=bus&searchmode=none ''Online Etymology Dictionary'' entry on "bus"]

[[Category:nn:Vehicles]]

----

==Skolt Sami==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|sms}}

===Noun===
{{head|sms|noun}}

# {{topics|sms|Vehicles}} [[bus]]

====Inflection====
{{sms-infl-noun
|nom_s=buss|nom_p=buuss
|acc_s=buuss|acc_p=buussid
|gen_s=buuss|gen_p=buussi
|ill_s=buʹsse|ill_p=buussid
|loc_s=buussâst|loc_p=buussin
|com_s=buussin|com_p=buussivuiʹm
|abe_s=buusstää|abe_s2=buusstaa|abe_p=buussitää|abe_p2=buussitaa
|ess=bussân
|par=bussâd
}}

----

==Swedish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/bɵs/|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-buss.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Adjective===
{{sv-adj|-}}

# like an old friend
#: ''att vara '''buss''' med någon''
#:: to be an old friend of someone

====Related terms====
* {{l|sv|bussig}}

===Interjection===
{{head|sv|interjection}}

# command to a dog to attack: get, bite, catch
#: '''''buss''' på tjuven!''
#:: get the thief!

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# a [[bus]], a vehicle to transport people.
#: ''kommer inte '''bussen''' snart?''
#:: doesn't the bus ever arrive?
# {{lb|sv|computing}} a [[bus]]
# an (old) [[soldier]] or [[sailor]]
# a [[portion]] of [[chewing tobacco]]
#: ''han spottade ut '''bussen''' som han hade tuggat på''
#:: he spat out the tobacco he'd been chewing

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-ar|genitive=}}

====Related terms====
{|
|- valign=top
|
* {{l|sv|bussa}}
* {{l|sv|bussbiljett}}
* {{l|sv|bussbolag}}
* {{l|sv|busschaufför}}
* {{l|sv|bussfil}}
* {{l|sv|bussfärd}}
* {{l|sv|bussförare}}
* {{l|sv|bussförbindelse}}
* {{l|sv|bussgata}}
* {{l|sv|busshållplats}}
|
* {{l|sv|busskort}}
* {{l|sv|busskrock}}
* {{l|sv|busskur}}
* {{l|sv|busskörfält}}
* {{l|sv|busslast}}
* {{l|sv|busslinje}}
* {{l|sv|bussning}}
* {{l|sv|busspark}}
* {{l|sv|bussresa}}
* {{l|sv|bussresenär}}
|
* {{l|sv|bussterminal}}
* {{l|sv|busstrafik}}
* {{l|sv|busstur}}
* {{l|sv|bussutflykt}}
* {{l|sv|långfärdsbuss}}
* {{l|sv|länsbuss}}
* {{l|sv|mätbuss}}
* {{l|sv|omnibus}}
* {{l|sv|parallellbuss}}
* {{l|sv|passagerarbuss}}
|
* {{l|sv|seriebuss}}
* {{l|sv|sightseeingbuss}}
* {{l|sv|sjöbuss}}
* {{l|sv|skolbuss}}
* {{l|sv|stadsbuss}}
* {{l|sv|turistbuss}}
|}

===References===
* {{R:SAOL}}