{{wikipedia|dab=BUT}}
{{also|butt|Butt}}
==English==

{{rank|or|from|this|29|but|all|him|she}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} {{term|butan|būtan|lang=ang}}, corresponding to "[[by]] + [[out]]".

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}} {{enPR|bŭt}}, {{IPA|/bʌt/}}, {{SAMPA|/bVt/}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}} {{enPR|bət}}, {{IPA|/bət/}}, {{SAMPA|/b@t/}}
* {{audio|en-us-but.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*: {{rhymes|ʌt}}
* Homophones: [[butt]]

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# {{context|obsolete|except|_|Scotland}} [[outside|Outside]] of.
#: ''Away '''but''' the hoose and tell me whae's there.''
# {{obsolete}} [[without|Without]], apart from.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# [[merely|Merely]], [[only]].
#: ''Since that day, my mood has changed '''but''' a little.''

===Conjunction===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-conj}}

# [[except|Except]] (for), [[excluding]].
#: ''I like everything '''but''' that. I have no choice '''but''' to leave.''
# On the [[contrary]], but [[rather]] (introducing a word or clause that [[contrast]]s with or [[contradict]]s the preceding clause or sentence without the ''not'').
#: ''I am not rich '''but''' poor.''
# [[however|However]], [[although]], [[nevertheless]] (implies that the following clause is contrary to prior belief or contrasts with or contradicts the preceding clause or sentence).
#: ''She is very old '''but''' still attractive.'' ''You told me I could do that '''but''' she said that I could not.''
# Without it also happening that; unless that (introducing a necessary concomitant).
#: ''It never rains '''but''' it pours.''

====Usage notes====
* Beginning a sentence with a [[coordinating conjunction]] such as '''but''' is considered incorrect by classical grammarians arguing that a coordinating conjunction at the start of a sentence has nothing to connect, but use of the word in this way is very common. It is, however, best to avoid beginning a sentence with '''but''' in formal writing.  Combining sentences or using '''however''', '''nevertheless''', '''still''', or '''though''' is appropriate for the formal style.
** But this tool has its uses.
** This tool has its uses, however.
** Nevertheless, this tool has its uses.
** Still, this tool has its uses.
** This tool still has its uses.
** This tool has its uses, though.

* The use of the word '''but''' preceded by a comma is also considered incorrect by classical grammarians.
** I was very tired, but I decided to continue.
** It was a lovely day, but rain looked likely.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|except}} [[bar]], [[unless]], [[excepting]], [[excluding]], [[with the exception of]], [[without]]
* {{sense|however}} [[yet]], [[although]], [[ac]]

====Derived terms====
* [[all but]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|except}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t|af|behalwe|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[سوى]]}} (síwan)
* Armenian: [[բացի ]] (batsi)
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|izan ezik|xs=Basque}}, {{t|eu|salbu|xs=Basque}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[menys]], [[excepte]]
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|osim}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kromě}}, {{t-|cs|vyjma}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|undtagen}}, {{t-|da|uden}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|behalve}}
* Esperanto: [[krom]], [[escepte de]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|peale}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|paitsi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sauf}}
* German: {{t+|de|außer}}, {{t+|de|aber}} {{t+|de|nicht}}, {{t+|de|als}} (only after negative sentences)
* Greek: [[εκτός]] (ektós), [[πλην]] (plin), [[με εξαίρεση]] (me exéresi), [[αλλά]] (allá)
* Hebrew: [[פרט ל]] (prat' le-), [[למעט]] (lema‘et')
* Hungarian: [[kivéve]] [[-t]], [[csak]] (after a negative sentence), [[csak]] [[nem]] (after a positive sentence)
*: ''Mindent szeretek, '''csak''' azt '''nem'''.''
*:: I like everything but that.
*: ''Nincs más választásom, '''csak''' elmenni.''
*:: I have no (other) choice but to leave.
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|tetapi|xs=Indonesian}}, {{t-|id|tapi|xs=Indonesian}}
* Italian: [[eccetto]], [[salvo]], [[a parte]]
* Japanese: {{Jpan|[[以外]]}} ({{Jpan|[[いがい]]}}, igai)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[به‌ڵام]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[جگه‌]]}}
* Maltese: [[minbarra]], [[mingħajr]]
* [[Novial]]: [[exept]]
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[بجز]]}} (bejoz)
* Polish: [[oprócz]], [[z wyjątkiem]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|exceto}}, {{t+|pt|salvo}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кроме|tr=króme}}, {{t+|ru|лишь|tr=liš’}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[ach]]
* Serbian: {{t-|sr|sem}}
* Slovak: [[okrem]]
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|razen}}
* [[Sotho]]: {{t|st|ha e se|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|excepto}}, {{t+|es|salvo}}, {{t-|es|sino}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förutom}}, {{t+|sv|utom}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hariç}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|ac eithrio|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|mar|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rather}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|maar|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لاكن|tr=laakin, laakinna}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|բայց|tr=bayts}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|baina|xs=Basque}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|але|tr=alé|xs=Belarusian}}, {{t+|be|а|tr=a|xs=Belarusian}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[però]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|可是|tr=kěshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|但是|tr=dànshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不過|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不过|tr=búguò|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ale}}, {{t|cs|jenže}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|men}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|maar}}, {{t+|nl|echter}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|sed|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|tamen|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|ent}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mutta}}, {{t+|fi|vaan}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mais}}, {{t+|fr|cependant}}
* German: {{t+|de|sondern}}
* Greek: [[ωστόσο]] (ostóso), [[μολαταύτα]] (molatáfta), [[εντούτοις]] (edútis), [[όμως]] (ómos), [[μα]] (ma)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אבל|tr=aval}}, {{t|he|אולם|tr=ulam}}, {{t-|he|אך|tr=akh}}, {{t+|he|ברם|tr=bram}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|लेकिन|tr=lekin|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|de}}, {{t+|hu|viszont}}, {{t+|hu|hanem}}, {{t+|hu|azonban}}
* Indonesian: {{t-|id|namun|xs=Indonesian}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|ach|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ma}}, {{t+|it|però}}, {{t+|it|tuttavia}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|が|tr=ga}},  {{t-|ja|けれど|tr=keredo}}, {{t-|ja|けれども|tr=keredomo}}, {{t-|ja|けど|tr=kedo}}, {{t+|ja|しかし|tr=shikashi}}, {{t-|ja|でも|tr=demo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|그러나|tr=geureona|sc=Hang}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[به‌ڵام]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[هه‌روه‌ها]]}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|sed}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|o|xs=Lithuanian}}
* Maltese: [[iżda]], [[imma]]
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|ndi}}
* [[Novial]]: [[ma]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|ac|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{t-|fa|اما|tr=âmma|xs=Persian}}, {{t|fa|با این حال|tr=ba in hâ|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ale}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mas}}, {{t+|pt|porém}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|dar}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[ma]], [[però]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|но|tr=no}}, {{t+|ru|а|tr=a}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|ale}}, {{t-|sk|avšak}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|a}}, {{t+|sl|ampak}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|pero}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|utan}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ama}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|але|tr=alé|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{t+|uk|а|tr=a|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|لیکن|tr=lekin|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nhưng|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|heblaw am|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: {{t+|fy|mar|xs=West Frisian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|although}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: {{t-|af|maar|xs=Afrikaans}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|لاكن|tr=laakin, laakinna}}
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|baina|xs=Basque}}, {{t|eu|nahiz eta|xs=Basque}}
* Belarusian: {{t-|be|але|tr=alé|xs=Belarusian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|но|tr=no}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[però]], [[encara que]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|可是|tr=kěshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|但是|tr=dànshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不過|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|不过|tr=búguò|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ale}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|men}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|maar}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kuid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mutta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|mais}}
* German: {{t+|de|aber}}, aber {{t+|de|trotzdem}}
* Greek: [[μολονότι]] (molonóti), [[παρόλο]] (parólo), [[καίτοι]] (kéti), [[αν και]] (an ke)
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אבל|tr=aval}}
* Hindi: {{t-|hi|लेकिन|tr=lekin|xs=Hindi}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|de}}, {{t+|hu|viszont}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|en}}
* Indonesian: [[kecuali]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|ma}}, {{t+|it|però}}, {{t+|it|tuttavia}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|が|tr=ga}},  {{t-|ja|でも|tr=demo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[ئه‌گه‌ر چی]]}}
* Latvian: {{t+|lv|bet|xs=Latvian}}
* Maltese: [[iżda]]
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|ndi}}
* [[Novial]]: [[ma]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|ac|xs=Old English}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|گرچه|tr=garche|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ale}}, {{t+|pl|chociaż}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|embora}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[cumbain che]]
* Russian: {{t+|ru|но|tr=no}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|ale}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|čeprav}}, {{t+|sl|toda}}
* [[Sotho]]: {{t|st|empa|xs=Sotho}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|aunque}}, {{t+|es|pero}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|men}}, {{t+|sv|fast}}
* Thai: {{t-|th|แต่|tr=dtàe}}, {{t|th|แต่ว่า|tr=dtàe wâa}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ancak}}, {{t+|tr|fakat}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|але|tr=alé|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|لیکن|tr=lekin|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|nhưng|xs=Vietnamese}}, {{t|vi|nhưng mà|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|er|xs=Welsh}}
* [[!Xóõ]]: [[xàbēkà]], [[gúʻni tshòo]]
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אָבער|tr=ober}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Ancient Greek}}: [[ἀλλά]] (allá)
* {{ttbc|Ido}}: [[ma]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tapi]], [[tetapi]]
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[lê]] ([[Kurmanji]])
* {{ttbc|Persian}}: {{fa-Arab|[[ولی|وَلی]]}} (væli)
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[dar]]
* {{ttbc|Tamil}}: [[ஆனால்]]
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కానీ]]
* {{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[ab]], [[efe]], [[sod]] (archaic)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An instance or example of using the word "but"
#: ''It has to be done – no ifs or '''buts'''.''
# {{Scottish English}} The [[outer]] [[room]] of a small two-room [[cottage]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[BTU#English|BTU]]}}
* [[tub#English|tub]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English coordinating conjunctions]]
[[Category:English focusing adverbs]]

----

==Danish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|gmw-lge|da}}.

===Adjective===
'''but'''

# {{rare|lang=da}} [[blunt]]

====Synonyms====
* [[stump]]

====Antonyms====
* [[spids]]

[[Category:Danish adjectives]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-but.ogg|audio}}
* {{a|France}} {{IPA|/by(t)/|lang=fr}}, {{SAMPA|/by(t)/|lang=fr}}
* {{a|Quebec}} {{IPA|/bʏt/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m}}

# [[aim]]
# [[goal]] {{gloss|result one is attempting to achieve}}
# {{sports|lang=fr}} [[goal]] (in the place, act, or point sense)

====Synonyms====
* [[fin]]
* [[objectif]]
* [[dessein]]
* [[point]]

====Related terms====
* [[buter]]
* [[buteur]], [[buteuse]]

===Verb form===
{{fr-verb-form}}

# {{form of|Third-person singular indicative simple past|[[boire]]}}

[[Category:fr:Football (Soccer)]]
[[Category:fr:Handball]]
[[Category:fr:Hockey]]

----

==Maltese==

===Noun===
'''but''' {{m}}

# [[pocket]]

[[Category:Maltese nouns]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[but]|lang=pl}}
* {{audio|Pl-but.ogg|Audio}}

===Noun===
{{infl|pl|noun|g=m}}

# [[shoe]]
# [[boot]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun
|but|buty
|buta|butów
|butowi|butom
|but|buty
|butem|butami
|bucie|butach
|bucie|buty
}}

----

==Romani==

===Adjective===
'''but''' (''comparative'' '''[[majbut]]''', ''superlative'' '''[[legmajbut]]''')

# [[many]]

[[Category:Romani adjectives]]

----

==Scots==

===Noun===
{{sco-noun}}

# The [[outer]] [[room]] of a small two-room [[cottage]].

===Preposition===
{{sco-prep}}

# [[outside|Outside]] of, [[without]].

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|tr|sh}} {{term|but|lang=tr}}, {{term|bud|lang=tr}}.

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=bȕt|r|бут|бу̏т}}

# [[thigh]]
# [[ham]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|bȕt|bùtovi
|buta|butova
|butu|butovima
|but|butove
|bute|butovi
|butu|butovima
|butom|butovima
}}

----

==Turkish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|otk|tr}} ''būt'', from {{proto|Turkic|lang=tr}}.

===Noun===
'''but'''

# [[thigh]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|tr|uyluk}}

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

[[ar:but]]
[[zh-min-nan:but]]
[[ca:but]]
[[cs:but]]
[[de:but]]
[[et:but]]
[[el:but]]
[[es:but]]
[[fa:but]]
[[fr:but]]
[[ko:but]]
[[hy:but]]
[[hr:but]]
[[io:but]]
[[id:but]]
[[it:but]]
[[csb:but]]
[[kk:but]]
[[sw:but]]
[[ku:but]]
[[lo:but]]
[[la:but]]
[[lv:but]]
[[li:but]]
[[hu:but]]
[[ml:but]]
[[my:but]]
[[nl:but]]
[[ja:but]]
[[no:but]]
[[pl:but]]
[[pt:but]]
[[ro:but]]
[[ru:but]]
[[sq:but]]
[[simple:but]]
[[fi:but]]
[[sv:but]]
[[ta:but]]
[[te:but]]
[[th:but]]
[[tr:but]]
[[tk:but]]
[[uk:but]]
[[vi:but]]
[[vo:but]]
[[zh:but]]