==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fa|en}} {{m|fa|بزکشی|tr=buz-kaši, boz-keši}}; compound of {{m|fa|بز|tr=boz}}, meaning "goat" + {{m|fa|کش|tr=kaš}}, meaning "dragging, drawing" + {{m|fa|ی|ـی|tr=-i}}.<ref>Online Etymology Dictionary: [http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=buzkashi "buzkashi"]</ref> The term "buzkashi" is used in the Persian ''[[lingua franca]]'' of northern Afghanistan and Kabul, meaning "goat-grabbing" or "goat-dragging" when "buz" ("goat") is used in "buzkashi" to denote either species.<ref>G. Whitney Azoy: [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=cP9-AAAAIAAJ&focus=searchwithinvolume&q=buzkashi+lingua+franca Buzkashi, game and power in Afghanistan. University of Pennsylvania Press, 1982. Page 74].</ref><ref name="Azoy">G. Whitney Azoy, [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=d8Fo13XCP6wC&q=Buzkashi+Scythian#v=snippet&q=Buzkashi%20Scythian&f=false Buzkashi: Game and ×Power in Afghanistan, Third Edition. Waveland Press 2011. pp.3-4].</ref> The word most likely originated in a Turkic language, literally "goat bashing" in Turkic, '''''buz''''' is Turkic for "goat" and '''''kashi''''' "bashing".<ref>Ted Rall - [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=g8E_AwAAQBAJ&q=buzkashi+Turkic#v=snippet&q=buzkashi%20Turkic&f=false Silk Road to Ruin: Is Central Asia the New Middle East?] NBM, 2006. pp.207-208</ref> The national game of Afghanistan "Buzkashi" may have began with the nomadic Turkic-Mongol peoples who have come from farther north and east spreading westward from China and Mongolia between the 10th and 15th centuries in a centuries-long series of migrations that ended only in the 1930's. Today buzkashi is indigenously shared by several Central Asian ethnic groups, i.e. Uzbeks, Turkmens, Hazaras, Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, Tajiks and Pashtuns. From Scythian times until recent decades, buzkashi remains as a legacy of that bygone era.<ref name="Azoy"/><ref name="Azoy2">G. Whitney Azoy, Buzkashi: Game and Power in Afghanistan, 2nd ed. (2002), In: [http://universalium.academic.ru/261277/buzkash%C4%AB Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias "buzkashi"]</ref>

The only comprehensive study of buzkashī in the English language is G. Whitney Azoy, Buzkashi: Game and Power in Afghanistan, 2nd ed. (2002). A shorter treatment by the same author is “Buzkashi” in Encyclopaedia of World Sport (1996), vol. 1, pp. 159–163. Also useful is Roland Michaud and Sabrina Michaud, Horsemen of Afghanistan (1988).<ref name="Azoy2"/>

See more at [[buzağı#Turkish|buzağı]].

===References===
<references/>

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|games|sports}} A [[team sport]] originating in [[Central Asia]], where the players, all on [[horseback]], try to place an animal carcass into a goal.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a team sport}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|көкпар}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t|ky|көк-бөрү}}
{{trans-bottom}}