{{also|übersexual}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|übersexual}}

===Etymology===
{{af|en|uber-|t1=above|sexual}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[heterosexual]] [[male]] displaying [[confidence]] and [[concern]] for others.
#* '''2005''' August 25, Marian Salzman, Ira Matathia{{,}} and Ann O'Reilly, ''The Future of Men'', ''The Rise of the '''Ubersexual''' and What He Means for Marketing Today'', Palgrave Macmillan, {{ISBN|1403968829}}
#* '''2005''' November 3, “Enough Already With The Trends And Labels”, ''Business Wire''
#*: First it was Metrosexuals. Now it's '''Ubersexuals'''. Everyone wants to tell men how they should dress, groom themselves and behave.
#* '''2006''', ''Femina'', Associated Magazines, issues 2517-2520, page 16
#*: Unlike the effeminate metrosexual, the '''ubersexual’s''' sexuality is not in question.{{...}} And he won't mind being grouped with the trendsetters' top three '''ubersexuals''' Bono, George Clooney and Bill Clinton.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Having the [[qualities]] of an ubersexual.
#* '''2006''', ''India Today'', Thomson Living Media India, volume 31, issues 1-12, page 52:
#*: A comparative study across 13 nations showed that a majority of Indian men were displaying signs of schizophrenia, torn between traditional machoism and the sensitive new age '''ubersexual''' male.
#* '''2006''' September, Dennis Waskul and Phillip Vannini (editors), ''body /embodiment'', ''symbolic interaction and the sociology of the body'', Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., {{ISBN|0754647269}}, pages 248-249
#*: In the midst of “the crisis,” men tend not to acknowledge or embrace new masculinities — despite discourses regarding metrosexual or '''ubersexual''' masculinities — but rather retrench themselves into traditional, essentialized and hegemonic masculine images and embodied performances.
#* '''2007''', Willow Kincaid, ''Tragic Hero'', ''A Teacher Accused'', Xlibris Corporation, {{ISBN|1425755178}}, page 63
#*: So far he’s redecorated my apartment in the most awesome jungle motif, and we can wear each other's clothes. He’s mad '''ubersexual'''. We haven’t had sex yet, but it’s only been six months<!--,-->
#* '''2009''', Sandy Summers and Harry Jacobs Summers, ''Saving Lives'', ''Why the Media’s Portrayal of Nurses Puts Us All at Risk'', Kaplan Publishing, {{ISBN|1427798451}}, page 175:
#*: Peter was '''übersexual''', gorgeous, sensitive, and holistic, yet manly—check his motorcycle!

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# [[#English|ubersexual]]

===Adjective===
{{es-adj}}

# [[#English|ubersexual]]

{{C|es|Sexuality}}