{{also|'um|.um}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
{{etystub}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{audio|en-us-um.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ʌm}} (when stressed, or as a verb)
Used in [[rhotic]] dialects. Compare [[erm]].

====Interjection====
{{en-intj}}

# {{US}} [[expression|Expression]] of [[confusion]] or space filler in [[conversation]]. See [[uh]].
#: '''''Um''', I don’t know.''
#: ''Let’s see, '''um''', how about this.''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|um|m|ing}}

# {{US}} {{intransitive}} To make the ''um'' sound to express confusion or hesitancy.

===Etymology 2===
A Latin-script rendering of ''[[µm]]''.

====Pronunciation====
* Pronounced as ''[[micrometer]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|um}}

# A [[micrometer]].

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|[[mu#English|mu]]}} , [[Mu#English|Mu]], [[MU#English|MU]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Faroese==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[ʊmː]|lang=fo}}

===Preposition===
'''um''' ''+ accusative''

# [[around]]
# [[about]]
# [[during]]
# [[through]]
# [[over]]

===Conjunction===
'''um'''

# [[whether]], [[if]]

[[Category:Faroese conjunctions]]
[[Category:Faroese prepositions]]

----

==German==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|goh|de}} ''[[umbi]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|De-at-um.ogg|audio (Austria)}}
* {{IPA|/ʊm/|lang=de}}, {{SAMPA|/um/}}

===Preposition===
{{infl|de|preposition}} + ''accusative''

# [[around]]
#: '''''Um''' die Ecke''
#:: around the corner
# [[at|At]] when relating to time (because the hands of a clock go ''around'', the clock)
#: '''''Um''' acht Uhr reisen wir ab''
#:: At eight o’clock we depart
# Used as a conjunction of purpose
#: '''''um''' zu''
#:: so as to

----

==Icelandic==

===Adverb===
'''um'''

# used in set phrases
#: ''Það er '''um''' að gera að sofa vel.''
#:: The important thing to do it to sleep well.
#: ''Hvað er '''um''' að vera?''
#:: What's going on?
#: ''Eins og '''um''' var talað.''
#:: As was agreed.

====Derived terms====
* [[vera um og ó]]

===Preposition===
{{infl|is|preposition}} (+ {{accusative}})

# [[about]], [[concerning]]
#: '''''Um''' hvað ertu að tala?''
#:: What are you talking '''about'''?
#: ''Spurning '''um''' líf og dauða.''
#:: A question '''of''' life and death.
# [[through]], [[around]], [[across]]
#: ''Áin rennur '''um''' dalinn.''
#:: The river runs '''through''' the valley.
#: ''Að fara út '''um''' gluggann.''
#:: To go out '''through''' the window.
#: ''Vestur '''um''' haf.''
#:: West '''across''' the sea.
# [[throughout]], [[over]], [[around]]
#: ''Við förum '''um''' alla sveitina.''
#:: We'll go '''throughout''' the district.
#: ''Hann var breiður '''um''' herðar.''
#:: He was broad '''across''' the shoulders.
#: ''Hún hafði klút '''um''' hálsinn.''
#:: She had a scarf '''around''' her neck.
# [[during]], [[for]], [[in]], [[at]]
#: ''Hvenær gerðist þetta?'' - ''Þetta gerðist '''um''' sumarið.''
#:: When did this happen? - It happened '''during''' the summer.
#: ''Ég fór '''um''' nóttina.''
#:: I went '''during''' the night.
# [[approximately]], [[about]], [[around]]
#: ''Pokinn er '''um''' fimm kíló.''
#:: The bag '''around''' five kilos.

====Usage notes====
* Often used with phrases such as "''[[brjóta heilann]] '''um'''''".
*: ''Ég er búinn að [[brjóta heilann]] '''um''' þetta alla nótt!''
*:: I've been racking my brain '''about''' this all night!

====Derived terms====
* [[um morguninn]] (in the [[morning]], in the course of the morning)
* [[klukkan um morguninn|klukkan ~ um morguninn]] (at ~ in the morning)
* [[um daginn]] (the other day)
* [[hér um bil]] ([[approximately]])
* [[eins og um var talað]]
* [[um nóttina]] (during the [[night]])
* [[um tíma]]/[[um stundarsakir]] (for a [[while]])
* [[um það leyti]] (at about that time)
* [[hælast um af]]
* [[víða um land]] (all over the country)
* [[ganga um gólf]] (to walk up and down the floor, to pace the floor)
* [[vera um megn]]
* [[um það bil]]
* [[um leið]] (straight away)
* [[togast á um]]
* [[líta um öxl]]
* [[deila um keisarans skegg]]
* [[um leið og]] (as soon as, at the same time as)
* [[láta um það|láta e-h um það]] (to leave it to s-b)
* [[hver um sig]] (each one of them, each in turn, each one on his/her own)
* [[um of]] (too much)
* [[vefja um fingur sér]]
* [[búa um rúmið]]
* [[láta sem vind um eyru þjóta]]/[[láta eins og vind um eyru þjóta]]

[[Category:Icelandic adverbs]]

----

==Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=ga|[ʊmˠ]}}

===Preposition===
{{ga-prep}}

# [[about]]
# [[at]]

====Inflection====
{{ga-prep-infl-h
|1sg    = umam
|2sg    = umat
|3sgm   = uime
|3sgmem = uimesean
|3sgf   = uimpi
|1pl    = umainn
|2pl    = umaibh
|3pl    = umpu
}}

====Usage notes====
Triggers lenition of ''c'', ''d'', ''f'', ''g'', ''s'', ''t''.

----

==Latin==

===Verb===
{{la-verb-form|um īrī}}

# {{conjugation of|absto|abstō|fut|pass|inf|lang=la}}

----

==Portuguese==
{{cardinalbox|pt|0|1|2|zero|dois|ord=primeiro|wplink=Um}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|um}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|pt}} ''[[unus]]''.

===Cardinal numeral===
{{pt-cardinal|f=uma}}

# [[one]].
#: ''Uma xícara de café'' (''One cup of coffee'')

===Article===
{{pt-article}}

# {{indefinite}} [[a]], [[an]]; [[some]] (in plural).
#* {{RQ:Harry Potter|6|pt-BR|page=186}}
#*: Tenho '''um''' recado para você.
#*:: I have a message for you.
#* {{RQ:Harry Potter|6|pt-BR|page=361}}
#*: [...] disse o professor com '''um''' sorrisinho [...]
#*:: [...] the teacher said with a little smile [...]

====See also====
{{pt-articles}}

===Noun===
{{pt-noun-m}}

# The figure or digit "1": [[one]].
#: ''O '''um''' parece o sete sem gravata no pescoço'' (''The one looks like the seven with no tie at its neck'')

===Pronoun===
{{infl|pt|pronoun}}

# A person: [[one]], [[someone]]; some people: [[some]] (in plural).
#: ''Chegou-me '''um''' e disse: "Olá!"'' (''One came to me and said: "Hello!"'')
# Element(s) of a previously mentioned class: [[one]]; [[some]] (in plural).
#: ''Comprei '''uns''' e me decepcionei'' (''I bought some and got disappointed'')

----

==Romansch==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|rm}} {{term|homo|homō|lang=la}} < {{proto|Indo-European|dʰǵʰm̥mō|earthling|lang=rm}}.

===Noun===
{{infl|rm|noun|g=m|plural|umens}}

# [[man]]
# [[husband]]

====Coordinate terms====
* {{l|rm|dunna}}

[[Category:rm:People]]
[[Category:rm:Family]]

----

==Scots==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʌm/|/əm/|lang=sco}}

===Pronoun===
{{sco-pron}}

# {{context|South Scots|personal|lang=sco}} [[him]]

====See also====
* [[hei]]

----

==Serbo-Croatian==

===Etymology===
From {{proto|Slavic|umъ|lang=sh}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ûːm/|lang=sh}}

===Noun===
{{sh-noun|g=m|head=ȗm|r|ум|у̑м}}

# [[mind]]
# [[intellect]]
# [[wit]]

====Declension====
{{sh-decl-noun
|ȗm|úmovi
|uma|umova
|umu|umovima
|um|umove
|ume|umovi
|umu|umovima
|umom|umovima
}}

[[az:um]]
[[cs:um]]
[[de:um]]
[[et:um]]
[[el:um]]
[[es:um]]
[[eo:um]]
[[eu:um]]
[[fr:um]]
[[gl:um]]
[[ko:um]]
[[hy:um]]
[[hr:um]]
[[io:um]]
[[id:um]]
[[is:um]]
[[it:um]]
[[sw:um]]
[[ku:um]]
[[la:um]]
[[lt:um]]
[[hu:um]]
[[nl:um]]
[[ja:um]]
[[no:um]]
[[pl:um]]
[[pt:um]]
[[ru:um]]
[[scn:um]]
[[fi:um]]
[[sv:um]]
[[ta:um]]
[[tr:um]]
[[vo:um]]
[[wo:um]]
[[zh:um]]