==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|undertaken}}, equivalent to {{prefix|under|take|lang=en}} (after {{m|en|undernim}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ʌndəˈteɪk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-undertake.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪk|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|undertakes|undertaking|undertook|undertaken}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To take upon oneself; to [[start]], to [[embark]] on (a specific task etc.).
#* '''1674''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''{{w|Paradise Lost}}'', Book 2, lines 417-420,<sup>[https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Paradise_Lost_(1674)/Book_II]</sup>
#*: This said, he sat; and expectation held
#*: His look suspense, awaiting who appeared
#*: To second, or oppose, or '''undertake'''
#*: The perilous attempt.
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To [[commit]] oneself (to an [[obligation]], activity etc.).
#: {{ux|en|He '''undertook''' to exercise more in future.}}
#* c. '''1590''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry VI, Part 3}}'', Act III, Scene 3,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry6p3&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: {{...}} if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
#*: With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
#*: I’ll '''undertake''' to land them on our coast
#*: And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
# {{lb|en|informal}} To [[overtake]] on the wrong side.
#: {{ux|en|I hate people who try and '''undertake''' on the motorway.}}
# {{lb|en|archaic|intransitive}} To [[pledge]]; to [[assert]], [[assure]]; to dare say.
#* c. '''1390s''', {{w|Geoffrey Chaucer}}, ''{{w|The Canterbury Tales}}'', General Prologue, lines 289-291,<sup>[https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Canterbury_Tales/General_Prologue]</sup>
#*: As leene was his hors as is a rake,
#*: And he nas nat right fat, I '''undertake''',
#*: But looked holwe and therto sobrely.
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtArthr1}}, Bk.VII:
#*: “I have now aspyed one knyght,” he seyde, “that woll play hys play at the justys, I '''undirtake'''.”
#* c. '''1591''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry VI, Part 1}}'', Act V, Scene 3,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry6p1&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: That is her ransom; I deliver her;
#*: And those two counties I will '''undertake'''
#*: Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
#* '''1695''', {{w|John Woodward (naturalist)|John Woodward}}, ''An Essay towards a Natural History of the Earth and Terrestrial Bodies'', London: Richard Wilkin, Part 4, pp. 222-223,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/essaytowardnatur00wood]</sup>
#*: {{...}} if those Persons who are curious in ''collecting'' either ''Minerals'', or the ''Shells'', ''Teeth'', or other Parts of Animal Bodies that have been buried in the Earth, do but search the ''Hills'' after ''Rains'', and the ''Sea-Shores'' after ''Storms'', I dare '''undertake''' they will not lose their Labour.
# {{lb|en|obsolete|transitive}} To take by [[trickery]]; to [[trap]], to seize upon.
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|11.37|2|IX|xxxvij}}:
#*: there came fourty knyghtes to sire Darras /{{...}}/ and they wold haue slayne sire Tristram and his two felawes / but sire Darras wold not suffre that but kepte them in pryson /{{...}}/ So sire Tristram endured there grete payne / for sekenesse had '''vndertake''' hym / and that is the grettest payne a prysoner maye haue
<!--Prior quote:So Sir Trystram endured there grete payne, for syknes had '''undirtake''' hym&mdash;and that ys the grettist payne a presoner may have-->
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To [[assume]], as a character; to [[take on]].
#* c. '''1595''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|A Midsummer Night's Dream|A Midsummer Night’s Dream}}'', Act I, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=midsummer&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: ''Quince''. {{...}} you must needs play Pyramus.
#*: ''Bottom''. Well, I will '''undertake''' it.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To engage with; to attack, [[take on]] in a fight.
#* c. '''1609''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Cymbeline}}'', Act II, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=cymbeline&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: It is not fit your lordship should '''undertake''' every companion that you give offence to.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To have knowledge of; to hear.
#* '''1596''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''{{w|The Faerie Queene}}'', Book 5, Canto 3, Stanza 34, London: George Allen, 1896, p. 1098,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/spensersfaeriequ05spenuoft]</sup>
#*: Ne he his mouth would open unto wight,
#*: Untill that Guyon selfe unto him spake,
#*: And called Brigadore, (so was he hight,)
#*: Whose voice so soone as he did '''undertake''',
#*: Eftsoones he stood as still as any stake,
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To have or take charge of.
#* c. '''1390s''', {{w|Geoffrey Chaucer}}, ''{{w|The Canterbury Tales}}'', {{w|The Physician's Tale|The Physician’s Tale}}, lines 81-82, ''The Poetical Works of Geoffrey Chaucer'', Bell & Daldy, 1866, Volume 3, p. 78,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=s74zAQAAMAAJ&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: {{...}} therfore, for Cristes sake,
#*: Kepeth wel tho that ye '''undertake'''.
#* c. '''1612''', {{w|William Shakespeare}} and {{w|John Fletcher (playwright)|John Fletcher}}, ''{{w|Henry VIII (play)|Henry VIII}}'', Act II, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry8&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: To the water side I must conduct your grace;
#*: Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
#*: Who '''undertakes''' you to your end.

====Usage notes====
* Sense: To commit oneself. This is a [[catenative]] verb that takes the ''to'' infinitive.
* See [[Appendix:English catenative verbs]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|undertaker}}
* {{l|en|undertaking}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to start an enterprise}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|قَامَ}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|emprendre}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|進行|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|进行|tr=jìnxíng|sc=Hani}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|imprandro}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ondernemen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|entrepreni}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ryhtyä}}, {{t+|fi|ruveta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|entreprendre}}
* German: {{t+|de|unternehmen}}, {{t+|de|ausführen}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|intraprendere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|取り掛かる|tr=とりかかる, torikakaru|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|맡다}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|adeo}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|emprendre}}, {{t|oc|emprene}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|empreender|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|întreprinde}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|предпринима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|предприня́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|emprender}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|girişmek}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|роби́ти}}, {{t+|uk|зді́йснювати}}, {{t|uk|розпочина́ти}}, {{t+|uk|бра́тися}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to commit oneself to an obligation}}
* German: {{t+|de|verpflichten|alt=sich verpflichten}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|oati}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|przedsięwziąć|impf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|dedicar}}, {{t|pt|comprometer-se}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|руча́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|поручи́ться|pf}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|zavezati se|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comprometerse|alt=comprometerse a}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|руча́тися}}, {{t|uk|гарантува́ти}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]