==English==

{{rank|fear|evening|ground|429|understand|fine|law|show}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|ŭn"də(r)-stănd'}}, {{IPA|/ˌʌn.də(r)ˈstænd/}}, {{SAMPA|/%Vnd@(r)"st{nd/}}
* {{audio|en-us-understand.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ænd}}
* {{hyphenation|un|der|stand}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|enm}} ''understanden'' from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|understondan|understandan|to understand|lang=ang}} from ''[[under-]]'' "between" + {{term|stondan|standan|to stand|lang=ang}}, akin to O.Fris. ''[[understonda]]'', M.Dan. ''[[understande]]'', Dutch ''[[onderstaan]]''

===Verb===
{{en-verb|understands|understanding|understood}}

# {{transitive}} To be aware of the [[meaning]] of.
#: ''I '''understand''' German.''
#: ''I received your note, but I did not '''understand''' it.''
# To [[believe]], based on information.
#: ''I '''understand''' that you have information for me.''
# To [[impute]] meaning, character etc. that is not explicitly stated.
#: ''But we cannot disappoint Grandma and Grandpa Smith, and that is what family is all about! Do you '''understand'''?!''
#: In this sense, the word is usually used in the past participle:
#: ''In the imperative mood, the word “you” is usually '''understood'''.''
# To apply values (axioms).

====Usage notes====
* Objects: text, word, sentence, note, etc.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|to know the meaning}} [[apprehend]], [[comprehend]], [[grasp]], [[know]], [[perceive]], [[realise]], [[grok]]
* {{sense|to believe}} [[believe]]

====Antonyms====
* [[Ignore]]
* [[Indifference]]

====Derived terms====
* [[I don't understand|I don’t understand]]
* [[understandable]]
* [[understanding]]
* [[understood]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to be aware of the meaning of}}
* Albanian: [[kuptoj]], [[përvetësoj]]; [[ftillohem]]
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{tø|ase|SmallO@NearSfhead-PalmBack Release}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[فهم]]}} (fáhima)
* Armenian: [[հասկանալ]] (haskanal)
* [[Basque]]: {{t|eu|ulertu}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разбирам|tr=razbiram|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese: [[明白]] (míngbái), [[懂]] (dǒng), [[了解]] (liǎojiě) (''traditional also'': [[瞭解]]), [[理解]] (lǐjiě), [[看得懂]] (kàndedǒng) ''read and understand'', [[聽得懂]] / [[听得懂]] (tīngdedǒng) ''listen and understand''
* {{trreq|Croatian}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|rozumět}}
* Danish: [[forstå]], [[fatte]], [[begribe]]
* Dutch: [[begrijpen]], [[snappen]] {{italbrac|“verstaan” usually means “to hear clearly”. You “verstaan” an utterance}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|kompreni|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|mõistma}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ymmärtää}}, {{t+|fi|osata}}, {{t-|fi|tajuta}}, {{t+|fi|käsittää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|comprendre}}
* Georgian: [[გაგება]] (gageba)
* German: {{t+|de|verstehen}}, {{t+|de|begreifen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|καταλαβαίνω|sc=Grek}} (katalavaíno), {{t+|el|κατανοώ|sc=Grek}} (katavoó)
* Hebrew: [[להבין]] (lehavin)
* Hindi: [[समझना]] (samajhnā)
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ért}}, {{t+|hu|felfog}}
* {{trreq|Icelandic}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|paham|alt=memahami|xs=Indonesian}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|tuig|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|capire}}, {{t+|it|comprendere}}, {{t+|it|intendere}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|分かる|tr=wakaru|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|理解する|tr=rikai suru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{Khmr|[[យល់]]}} (yūəl)
* Korean: {{ko-inline|이해하다|ihaehada}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|تێگه‌یشت|tr=taegayshtin|sc=ku-Arab}}, {{t|ku|سه‌ر لێ ده‌رچون|tr=sar laedarchoon|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Lao: {{Laoo|[[ເຂົ້າໃຈ]]}} (khao-cai)
* Latin: [[intellego]], [[percipio]]; [[scio]]; [[conspicio]]; [[teneo]]
* Latvian: {{t|lv|saprast|xs=Latvian}}
* Lithuanian: {{t-|lt|suprasti|xs=Lithuanian}}
* {{trreq|Maltese}}
* {{trreq|Maori}}
* {{trreq|Mongolian}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|forstå}}, {{t+|no|skjønne}},  {{t+|no|kunne}}
* {{trreq|Old English}}
* {{trreq|Persian}}
* Polish: [[być świadomym znaczenia]], [[pojmować]], [[rozumieć]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|compreender}}, {{t+|pt|entender}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|intelege|alt=a intelege}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|понимать|tr=ponimát’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|понять|tr=ponját’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|ken|xs=Scots}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|entender}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förstå}}
* Thai: {{Thai|[[เข้าใจ]]}} (kâo jai)
* {{trreq|Turkish}}
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[سمجهنا]]}} (samajhnā)
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|hiểu|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|deall|xs=Welsh}}
* Yiddish: [[פֿאַרשטיין]] (farshteyn)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to believe, based on information}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|besoj|xs=Albanian}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разбирам|tr=razbiram|sc=Cyrl}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|forstå}}, {{t-|da|mene}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|aru saama}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ymmärtää}}, {{t+|fi|uskoa}}
* German: {{t+|de|verstehen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|συνειδητοποιώ|sc=Grek}} (sineiditopoió)
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|értesül}}, {{t+|hu|tud}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|信じる|tr=shinjiru|sc=Jpan}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|credo}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|forstå}},  {{t+|no|skjønne}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|rozumieć}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acreditar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|понимать|tr=ponimát’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|понять|tr=ponját’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|entender}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förstå}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to impute meaning, character etc. that is not explicitly stated}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|разбирам|tr=razbiram|sc=Cyrl}}
* Danish: [[forstå]], [[opfatte]], [[indse]], [[underforstå]]
* Estonian: {{t|et|mõistma}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ymmärtää}}
* German: {{t+|de|verstehen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|megért}}
* Japanese: {{t-|ja|分かる|tr=wakaru|sc=Jpan}}, {{t-|ja|理解する|tr=rikai suru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|forstå}}
* Polish: [[pojmować]], [[rozumieć]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|compreender}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|понимать|tr=ponimát’|sc=Cyrl}} {{impf}}, {{t+|ru|понять|tr=ponját’|sc=Cyrl}} {{pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|comprender}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|förstå}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to apply values (axioms)}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Bambara}}: [[faamu]]
* {{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[verstaan]], [[begrijpen]], but “begrijpen” or “snappen” a concept or idea or decision.
* {{ttbc|Filipino}}: [[maintidihan]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[mengerti]], [[paham]]
* {{ttbc|Latin}}: [[intellegere]], [[comprehendere]]
{{checktrans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|Mongolian}}: [[ойлгох]] (ojlgoh)
* {{ttbc|Old English}}: [[ongietan|onġietan]]
* {{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[entender]]
* {{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[înţelege]], [[pricepe]], [[cuprinde]]
* {{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[razumeti]]
* {{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[-fahamiana]]
{{checktrans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[explain]]
* [[why]]

====External links====
* {{R:Webster 1913}}
* {{R:Century 1911}}

[[Category:Thinking]]

[[zh-min-nan:understand]]
[[ca:understand]]
[[et:understand]]
[[el:understand]]
[[es:understand]]
[[fa:understand]]
[[fr:understand]]
[[gl:understand]]
[[ko:understand]]
[[io:understand]]
[[id:understand]]
[[it:understand]]
[[kk:understand]]
[[ku:understand]]
[[lo:understand]]
[[hu:understand]]
[[nl:understand]]
[[ja:understand]]
[[no:understand]]
[[pl:understand]]
[[pt:understand]]
[[ro:understand]]
[[simple:understand]]
[[fi:understand]]
[[sv:understand]]
[[ta:understand]]
[[te:understand]]
[[th:understand]]
[[vi:understand]]
[[tr:understand]]
[[uk:understand]]
[[zh:understand]]