==English==

'''Definition of unemployment:'''

Inability of those able and willing to find work.

'''Causes and solutions to unemployment:'''

One of the cause of unemployment is lack of education and training. There is more supply of uneducated people to the market. Another cause of unemployment is lack of infrastructure, here there is restriction on the industrial growth. Geographical location also causes unemployment outsources reduces employment opportunities, lack of an effective social security system, political instability, lack of investment, economic system (e.g. planned economy, lack of funding, high interest rates.)

'''Solution:'''

Increase investment (encourage investments in innovations)
Changing the economic system e.g. from planned to private or free market.
Invest in more education and training (vocational trainings)
Infrastructure improvement.
Subsidies to industrial areas.
Inviting and encouraging investment foreign companies providing funding.
 


===Noun===
{{en-noun|unemployments|-}}

# The state of having no job<!--pertinent?, which may cause late [[filial life]]-->; joblessness.
#: '''''Unemployment''' made Jack depressed.''
# The phenomenon of joblessness in an economy.
#: '''''Unemployment''' has been considered a cause of crime.''
# The level of joblessness in an economy, often measured as a percentage of the [[workforce]].
#: '''''Unemployment''' was reported at 5.2% in May, up from 4.9% in April.''
# {{countable}} A type of joblessness due to a particular economic mechanism.
#: ''All '''unemployments''', seasonal, frictional, cyclical, classical, whatever, mean that you're out of work.''
# {{countable}} An instance or period of joblessness.
#: ''Until them his life had consisted of low-paying jobs, numberous '''unemployments''', and drug use.''

====Synonyms====
* [[joblessness]]

====Antonyms====
* [[employment]]

====Related terms====
* [[classical unemployment]]
* [[cyclical unemployment]]
* [[frictional unemployment]]
* [[Marxian unemployment]]
* [[seasonal unemployment]]
* [[structural unemployment]]
* [[technological unemployment]]
* [[unemployed]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|joblessness}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[بطالة]]}} (biṭāla) {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[atur]] {{m}}, [[parada forçosa]] {{f}}, [[manca de treball]] {{f}}
* Chinese: [[失業]], [[失业]] (shīyè)
* Czech: {{t-|cs|nezaměstnanost|f}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|arbejdsløshed|c}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|werkloosheid|f}}
* Estonian: [[tööpuudus]]
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|työttömyys}}
* French: {{t+|fr|chômage|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Arbeitslosigkeit|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανεργία|f|tr=anergía}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אבטלה|f|tr=av"talah}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|munkanélküliség}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|disoccupazione|f}}
* Japanese: [[失業]] ([[しつぎょう]], shitsugyō)
* Korean: [[실업]] (sireop)
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[بێ ئیشی]]}}, {{ku-Arab|[[بێکاری]]}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bezrobocie|n}}
* Portuguese: [[desemprego]] {{m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|şomaj|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|безработица|f|tr=bezrabótitsa}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|cion-cosnaidh|m|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Serbian: [[nezaposlenje]] {{n}}, [[nezaposlenost]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[desempleo]] {{m}}, [[paro]] {{m}} {{italbrac|Spain}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|arbetslöshet}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|işsizlik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[et:unemployment]]
[[el:unemployment]]
[[fr:unemployment]]
[[ko:unemployment]]
[[hy:unemployment]]
[[io:unemployment]]
[[id:unemployment]]
[[it:unemployment]]
[[kn:unemployment]]
[[lo:unemployment]]
[[hu:unemployment]]
[[nl:unemployment]]
[[ja:unemployment]]
[[pl:unemployment]]
[[ru:unemployment]]
[[fi:unemployment]]
[[ta:unemployment]]
[[vi:unemployment]]
[[zh:unemployment]]