==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{af|en|un-|fitted}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# Not [[suited]], not [[fit#Adjective|fit]] (''for'' something).
#* '''1776''', {{w|Thomas Paine}}, “On the Origin and Design of Government in General”, in ''[[w:Common Sense (pamphlet)|Common Sense]]''<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/3755/3755-h/3755-h.htm]</sup>:
#*: {{...}} let us suppose a small number of persons settled in some sequestered part of the earth, unconnected with the rest {{...}}. In this state of natural liberty, society will be their first thought. A thousand motives will excite them thereto, the strength of one man is so unequal to his wants, and his mind so '''unfitted''' for perpetual solitude, that he is soon obliged to seek assistance and relief of another, who in his turn requires the same.
#* {{RQ:Austen Mansfield Park|chapter=IV|volume=III|pages=82–83|pageref=83|passage=You have both warm hearts and benevolent feelings; and, Fanny, who that heard him read, and saw you listen to Shakespeare the other night, will think you '''unfitted''' as companions?}}
#* '''1946''' February 4, “Protestant Babies”, in ''[[w:Time (magazine)|Time]]''<sup>[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,776613,00.html]</sup>:
#*: Society should study reasonable and just ways of discouraging parenthood on the part of those who are seriously '''unfitted''' to cope with its responsibilities.
#* '''2016''' August 26, {{w|Stephen Glover}}, ''[[w:Daily Mail|The Daily Mail]]''<sup>[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-3760771/STEPHEN-GLOVER-know-BBC-Leftie-making-Labour-henchman-head-radio-satire.html]</sup>, London:
#*: His lack of editorial knowledge makes him doubly '''unfitted''' for the role for which he is reportedly being groomed.
# {{lb|en|of a garment|not comparable}} Not [[customized]], [[tailored]] or [[cut#Verb|cut]] to [[fit#Verb|fit]].
#* '''1961''' February 26, “Nothing, Something, Everything”, in ''[[w:Time (magazine)|Time]]''<sup>[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,872478,00.html]</sup>:
#*: As popularized by Jackie Kennedy, the little nothing, its partisans explain, also aims for the look of unostentatious but expensive elegance that goes beyond mere chic. Most little nothings today are essentially grown-up versions of sleeveless, high-necklined junior dresses, '''unfitted''', but figure-suggesting.
#* '''2015''' May 17, Alexander Fury, “Man from Japan: How to dress like a Tokyo Joe” in ''{{w|The Independent}}''<sup>[http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/fashion/news/man-from-japan-how-to-dress-like-a-tokyo-joe-10256254.html]</sup>, London:
#*: In the Eighties, the '''unfitted''' suits, flat-cut in the style of traditional kimonos and proposed by {{w|Yohji Yamamoto}} and {{w|Rei Kawakubo}} of {{w|Comme des Garçons}}, formed the baggy blueprint for a decade of men’s designs, and the outfit of choice for a generation of creative directors and male fashion editors.
# {{lb|en|rail|dated}} Of trains, or wagons in the train, not having a through [[brake]] [[pipe]], or brakes on the wagons that can be operated from the [[locomotive]].
#* {{quote-journal|en|year=1963|month=January|author=Jeffrey P. Burke|title=Railway crossroads of the north-west: Shrewsbury|journal=Modern Railways|page=55|text=Basically, heavy '''unfitted''' trains are hauled by ex-G.W.R, ex-L.M.R. or ex W.D. [[2-8-0]]s and fast freights by "Halls" and "Granges", [...].}}

===Etymology 2===
====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|unfit}}.