==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|unlosen}}, equivalent to {{prefix|en|un|loose}}.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|unloos}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[free]] (someone or something) from a constraint.
#* {{circa|1590}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry VI, Part 2}}'', Act V, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry6p2&Act=5&Scene=1&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: Then, York, '''unloose''' thy long-imprison’d thoughts
#*: And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
#* '''1717''', {{w|Laurence Eusden}} (translator), “The Story of Pyramus and Thisbe” in {{w|John Dryden}} (editor), ''{{w|Ovid}}’s {{w|Metamorphoses}} in Fifteen Books. Translated by the most Eminent Hands'', London: Jacob Tonson, p. 109,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004871123.0001.000]</sup>
#*: Thus did the melancholy Tale conclude,
#*: And a short, silent Interval ensu’d.
#*: The next in Birth '''unloos’d''' her artful Tongue,
#*: And drew attentive all the Sister-Throng.
#* '''1827''', {{w|Nathaniel Parker Willis}}, “Extract from a Poem delivered at the departure of the senior class of Yale College, in 1826” in ''Sketches'', Boston: S. G. Goodrich, p. 92,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/sketchesnp00willrich]</sup>
#*: Press on! for it is godlike to '''unloose'''
#*: The spirit, and forget yourself in thought;
#* '''1953''', {{w|James Baldwin}}, ''{{w|Go Tell It on the Mountain (novel)|Go Tell It on the Mountain}}'', New York: Dell, 1970, Part Three, p. 216,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/gotellitonmounta00bald]</sup>
#*: He would weep again, his heart insisted, for now his weeping had begun; he would rage again, said the shifting air, for the lions of rage had been '''unloosed'''; he would be in darkness again, in fire again, now that he had seen the fire and the darkness.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[undo]] or [[loosen]] something that [[fasten]]s, [[hold]]s, [[entangle]]s, or [[interlock]]s.
#* {{circa|1598}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry V (play)|Henry V}}'', Act I, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry5&Act=1&Scene=1&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: The Gordian knot of it he will '''unloose''',
#*: Familiar as his garter:
#* '''1611''', ''{{w|King James Version}} of the {{w|Bible}}'', {{w|Gospel of Mark|Mark}} 1:7,<sup>[https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Mark+1&version=KJV]</sup>
#*: There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and '''unloose'''.
#* '''1762''', {{w|Laurence Sterne}}, ''{{w|The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy}}'', London: T. Becket & P.A. Dehondt, Volume 5, Chapter 3, p. 34,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/lifeandopinions01unkngoog]</sup>
#*: Death opens the gate of fame, and shuts the gate of envy after it,—it '''unlooses''' the chain of the captive, and puts the bondsman’s task into another man’s hands.
#* '''1900''', {{w|Bret Harte}}, “A Niece of Snapshot Harry’s” in ''From Sand Hill to Pine'', Boston: Houghton Mifflin, p. 64,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/topifromsandhill00hartrich]</sup>
#*: Forgetting his disgust, Brice tore away the shirt and '''unloosed''' the belt.

===Synonyms===
* {{sense|free from constraint}} [[release]], [[set free]], [[unleash]]
* {{sense|undo something that fastens}} [[disengage]], [[unfasten]], [[untie]]

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=elnoosu|neo soul|neo-soul|oul ones|oul' ones}}