==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|unwinden}}, from {{inh|en|ang|unwindan|t=to unwind; unwrap}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*andawindaną|t=to unwind}}; equivalent to {{af|en|un-|wind|t2=to coil}}. Cognate with {{cog|nl|ontwinden|t=to unwind}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ʌnˈwaɪnd/}}
* {{audio|en|En-au-unwind.ogg|Audio (AU)}}
*: {{rhymes|en|aɪnd|s=2}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|unwinds|unwinding|unwound}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[separate]] (something that is wound up)
#: {{ux|en|to '''unwind''' a ball of yarn}}
#: {{ux|en|Could you '''unwind''' about a foot of ribbon so I can finish the package?}}
#: {{syn|en|untwist|untwine}}
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To disentangle
#* '''1836''', [[w:Richard Hooker|Richard Hooker]], ''The Works of Richard Hooker'', Volume 4, page 27:
#*: {{...}}but being not so skilful as in every point to '''unwind''' themselves where the snares of glossing speech do lie to entangle them,{{...}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive|slang}} To relax; to [[chill out]]; to rest and relieve of stress
#: {{ux|en|After work, I like to '''unwind''' by smoking a pipe while reading the paper.}}
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To be or become unwound; to be capable of being unwound or untwisted.
# {{lb|en|transitive|finance}} To [[close out]] a [[position]], especially a complicated position.
# {{lb|en|transitive|finance}} To [[undo]] something.
# {{lb|en|transitive|programming}} To analyse (a [[call stack]]) so as to generate a [[stack trace]] etc.
#* '''2006''', Hans-Wolfgang Loidl, ''Trends in Functional Programming'' (volume 5, page 62)
#*: If the expression is a throw, we '''''unwind''' the stack'' seeking a handler expression.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|wind}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To wind off}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|развивам}}, {{t+|bg|размотавам}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|purkaa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|dérouler}}, {{t+|fr|débobiner}}
* German: {{t+|de|abwickeln}}, {{t|de|loswickeln}}, {{t+|de|abspulen}}, {{t+|de|abdocken}} {{qualifier|textil.}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|legombolyít}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|neuchass}}, {{t|gv|neuhogher}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|desenrolar}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|deșira}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|desenrollar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|nysta upp}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To disentangle}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|avata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|démêler}}
* German: {{t+|de|entwirren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|slegare}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|desembaraçar}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|nysta i}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|çözmek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To relax}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|rentoutua}}
* French: {{t+|fr|décompresser}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|esparexer}}
* German: {{t+|de|abschalten}} {{qualifier|figurative}}, {{t|de|sich entspannen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ellazul}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|espairecer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|расслабляться}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|relajarse}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|varva ner}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|gevşemek}}, {{t+|tr|rahatlamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To be or become unwound}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|развивам се}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|purkautua}}
* French: se {{t+|fr|défaire}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|sich abwickeln}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|neuchass}}, {{t|gv|neuhogher}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|afwikkelen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Any mechanism or operation that unwinds something.
#* '''1989''', Ruth E. Goldenberg, Lawrence J. Kenah, ''VMS Internals and Data Structures: Version 5 Update''
#*: The NEWPC argument specifies the address to which control should be returned after the '''unwind''' is complete. If it is omitted, its default is for control to return to the PC saved in the call frame next outermost to the unwound ones.
#* '''1998''', ''Tappi Journal'' (volume 81, page 207)
#*: A primary function of the '''unwind''' is to provide a guided web into the slitter rewinder for accuracy in locating the web for slitting or to realign the edge of the web in a straight rewinding operation.

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]