==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{alternative spelling of|[[unaesthetic#English|unaesthetic]]}}
#* '''1952''': Hanna Segal, ''[http://www.pep-web.org/index.php The International Journal of Psychoanalysis]'' : [http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=IJP.033.0196A A Psycho-Analytical Approach to Aesthetics]'', volume 33, pp196–207
#*: …can be contrasted; but if beautiful is used as synonymous with æsthetically satisfying, then its contradictory is not ‘ugly’, but '''unæsthetic''', or indifferent…
#* '''1954''': Jacques Schnier, ''[http://www.pep-web.org/index.php The Psychoanalytic Quarterly]'' : a Review of ''[http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=PAQ.023.0454A The Psychoanalysis of Artistic Vision and Hearing: By Anton Ehrenzweig. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd., 1953. 272 pp.]'', volume 23, pp454–456
#*: …art together with some examples of primitive art are considered by the author to provide the most direct evidence for the irrational and '''unæsthetic''' modes in…
#* '''1959''': K. R. Eissler, M.D., ''[http://www.pep-web.org/index.php The Psychoanalytic Quarterly]'' : [http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=PAQ.028.0001A The Function of Details in the Interpretation of Works of Literature]'', volume28 , pp1–20
#*: …choice of this name and the exact number of years of unhappiness specified by Raimund impress us as '''unæsthetic'''.
#* '''1973''': Jose Barchilon, ''[http://www.pep-web.org/index.php?PHPSESSID=mn7lcla9ttk18mvtq6s2mieeb4 The Psychoanalytic Quarterly]'' : a Review of ''[http://www.pep-web.org/document.php?id=PAQ.042.0644A Psychoanalysis and Literary Process: Edited by Frederick Crews. Cambridge, Mass.: Winthrop Publishers, Inc., 1970. 298 pp.]'', volume 42, pp644–651
#*: The first chapter, entitled Anæsthetic Criticism, is masterful and comparable to Crews’s previous endeavors in the field. Unhappily, much literary criticism, especially psychoanalytic literary criticism, is not only '''unæsthetic''' and inelegant, but often anæsthetizes the reader. If art does not speak directly to our soul (an approximate concept of the unconscious before Freud), if it does not mobilize our own affects, it is not æsthetic. The pointed ambiguity of the word ‘anæsthetic’ illustrates Crews’s manners and method.
#* '''2003''': [http://www.grin.com/en/search?searchstring=7125&search=id_autor&page=0 Kai Mühlenhoff], ''[http://www.grin.com/en/preview/26198.html The Ideology of Manhood in James Fenimore Cooper’s The Last of the Mohicans]'', <small>PAGE UNKNOWN</small>
#*: Lawrence says that Cooper presents Natty as an “'''unæsthetic''' figure, especially as we see him first, when he is an old man, uncouth,…
#* '''2004''':  Amit Kama, ''Supercrips versus the pitiful handicapped: Reception of disabling images by disabled audience members'', <small>PAGE UNKNOWN (LINKS: [http://www.atypon-link.com/WDG/doi/abs/10.1515/comm.2004.29.4.447], [http://www.atypon-link.com/WDG/doi/abs/10.1515/comm.2004.29.4.447?cookieSet=1&journalCode=comm], [http://cat.inist.fr/?aModele=afficheN&cpsidt=16199632])</small>
#*: On the one hand, there is a tradition in modern societies to hide ‘'''unæsthetic'''’ people away from public view (Wolfson and Norden, 2000).
#* '''2005''' {{i|O<small>CTOBER</small> the 12<sup>th</sup>–14<sup>th</sup>}}: F. Gardiol, ''[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/guesthome.jsp IEEE Xplore]: “[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=1613546  Biological Effects of Portable Communication Equipment — A Review]”'' in ''[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/RecentCon.jsp?punumber=10745 Applied Electromagnetics and Communications, 2005. ICECom 2005. 18th International Conference on…]'', pp1–6 (ISBN 953-6037-44-0)
#*: …is a definite proof that the maximum permissible exposure would be exceeded, or when the proposed location is otherwise unsuitable ('''unæsthetic''', on historical…