==English==
{{was wotd|2007|March|7}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|upbreiden}}, from {{inh|en|ang|ūpbreġdan}}, equivalent to {{af|en|up-|braid}}. Compare {{cog|en|umbraid|t=to upbraid}}, {{cog|is|bregða|t=to draw, brandish, braid, deviate from, change, break off, upbraid}}. See {{m|en|up}}, and {{m|en|braid}} {{qualifier|transitive}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˌʌpˈbɹeɪd/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-upbraid.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|eɪd}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[criticize]] severely.
#* ''Matthew 11:20'',
#*: Then began he to '''upbraid''' the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done.
#* [[w:Philip Sidney|Sir Philip Sidney]] {{rfdatek|en|Sidney}},
#*: How much doth thy kindness '''upbraid''' my wickedness!
# {{lb|en|transitive|archaic}} To charge with something wrong or disgraceful; to [[reproach]]; to cast something in the teeth of; – followed by ''with'' or ''for'', and formerly ''of'', before the thing imputed.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Bible}} ''Mark 16:14'',
#*: And '''upbraided''' them with their unbelief.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Shakespeare}}
#*: Yet do not '''upbraid''' us our distress.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To treat with [[contempt]].
#* {{rfdatek|en|Spenser}}
#*:There also was that mighty monarch laid, Low under all, yet above all in pride; That name of native fire did foul '''upbraid''', And would, as Ammon's son, be magnify'd.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To object or urge as a matter of [[reproach]]; to cast up; – with ''to'' before the person.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Francis Bacon}}
#*:Those that have been bred together, are more apt to envy their equals when raised: for it doth '''upbraid''' unto them their own fortunes, and pointeth at them.
# {{lb|en|archaic|intransitive}} To utter upbraidings.
# {{lb|en|UK|_|dialectal|Northern England}} To rise on the stomach; [[vomit]]; [[retch]].

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|exprobrate}}, {{l|en|blame}}, {{l|en|censure}}, {{l|en|condemn}}, {{l|en|reproach}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to criticise}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|toheriri}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to charge with something wrong or disgraceful}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vermanen}}
* Latin: {{t|la|opprobrō}}
* Polish: [[karcić]] / [[skarcić]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reprovar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|укоря́ть|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to reprove}}
* French: {{t+|fr|gronder}}, {{t+|fr|reprendre}}, {{t+|fr|reprocher}}, {{t+|fr|réprimander}}, {{t+|fr|sermonner}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ὀνειδίζω}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|reprovar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} The act of reproaching; [[contumely]].
#* [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]] {{rfdate|en}}
#*: foul '''upbraid'''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|The act of reproaching}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|skarcenie|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|укори́зна|f}}, {{t+|ru|уко́р|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal nouns]]