==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|up|ish|lang=en}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{lb|en|since circa 1678}} Having plenty of [[money]]. 
#* '''1699''', B.E., ''A New Dictionary of the Canting Crew in its Several Tribes of Gypsies, Beggers, Thieves, Cheats &c.'', London: W. Hawes ''et al.'',<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A39127.0001.001]</sup>
#*: '''Uppish''', rampant, crowing, full of Money. ''He is very '''Uppish''''', well lined in the Fob {{...}}
# {{lb|en|colloquial}} Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority.
#* '''1903''', {{w|W. E. B. Du Bois}}, ''{{w|The Souls of Black Folk}}'', Chapter 13,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/408/408-h/408-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “Heah that John is livenin’ things up at the darky school,” volunteered the postmaster, after a pause.
#*: “What now?” asked the Judge, sharply.
#*: “Oh, nothin’ in particulah,—just his almighty air and '''uppish''' ways. {{...}}”
#* '''1908''', {{w|Kenneth Grahame}}, ''{{w|The Wind in the Willows}}'', Chapter 12, “The Return of Ulysses,”<sup>[http://gutenberg.net.au/ebooks/fr100025.txt]</sup>
#*: When the other animals came back to luncheon, very boisterous and breezy after a morning on the river, the Mole, whose conscience had been pricking him, looked doubtfully at Toad, expecting to find him sulky or depressed. Instead, he was so '''uppish''' and inflated that the Mole began to suspect something; while the Rat and the Badger exchanged significant glances.
#* '''1942''', {{w|Emily Carr}}, ''{{w|The Book of Small}}'', “Sunday,”<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.net.au/ebooks04/0400201.txt]</sup>
#*: Family prayers were '''uppish''' with big words on Sunday—reverend Awe-full words that only God and Father understood.
# {{lb|en|cricket|of a shot}} In which the [[ball]] is hit into the air, with the chance of being [[caught]].
#* '''1898''', Philip C. W. Trevor, “A Second Innings: A Story of a ’Varsity Match,” in ''[[w:The Badminton Magazine of Sports and Pastimes|The Badminton Magazine]]'', July 1989, p. 13<sup>[https://archive.org/details/badmintonmagazi04unkngoog]</sup>
#*: Six runs were still required, and an '''uppish''' stroke by the new arrival secured two of them.
#* '''1974''', {{w|James Herriot}}, ''Vet in Harness'', London: Pan Books, 2006, Chapter 24, p. 174,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=7U-KM3UpQ98C&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: All the coaching he had received had been aimed at keeping the ball down. An ‘'''uppish'''’ stroke was to be deplored. But everything had to be uppish on this pitch.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|uppishly}} colloquial adverb
* {{l|en|uppishness}} colloquial noun

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|hippus}}