==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|up|set}}

===Pronunciation===
;Noun
* {{enPR|ŭpʹsĕt}}, {{IPA|/ˈʌpsεt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"VpsEt/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-upset-noun.ogg|Audio (US), noun}}
;Adjective, verb
* {{enPR|ŭpsĕtʹ}}, {{IPA|/ʌpˈsεt/}}, {{SAMPA|/Vp"sEt/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-upset-verb-adj.ogg|Audio (US), verb/adjective}}
*: {{rhymes|ɛt}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-more}}

# Of a person, angry, distressed or unhappy.

====Synonyms====
* {{i-c|angry|distressed|unhappy}} ''See'' [[angry]], [[distressed]] ''and'' [[unhappy]]
** in a [[tizzy]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|angry, distressed, unhappy}}
* Dutch: [[ontdaan]], [[geschokt]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: [[trastornado]], [[perturbado]], [[enfadado]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|upset|upset (unexpected victory)}}
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} [[disturbance|Disturbance]] or [[disruption]].
#: ''My late arrival caused the professor considerable upset.''
# {{countable}} (''sports'') An unexpected [[victory]] of a competitor that was not favored.
#: ''The Nimrods defeated the Blue Devils yesterday in a stunning '''upset'''.''
# ''(automobile insurance)'' An [[overturn]].
#: ''"collision and upset": impact with another object or an overturn for whatever reason.''

====Synonyms====
* {{i-c|disturbance|disruption}} [[disruption]], [[disturbance]]
* {{i-c|unexpected victory of a competitor}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|disturbance, disruption}}
* Dutch: [[verstoring]], [[verwarring]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sports: unexpected victory of a competitor}}
* Dutch: [[verassend]]e [[nederlaag]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|upsets|upsetting|upset|upset}}

# {{transitive}} To make (a person) [[angry]], [[distressed]], or [[unhappy]].
#: ''I’m sure the bad news will '''upset''' him, but he needs to know.''
# {{transitive}} To [[disturb]], [[disrupt]] or [[adversely]] [[alter]] (something).
#: ''Introducing a foreign species can '''upset''' the ecological balance.''
# {{transitive}} To [[tip]] or [[overturn]] (something).
#* '''1924''': ARISTOTLE.  ''Metaphysics''.  Translated by W. D. Ross.  Nashotah, Wisconsin, USA: The Classical Library, 2001.  Available at: <http://www.classicallibrary.org/aristotle/metaphysics/>. Book 1, Part 9.
#*: ''But this argument, which first Anaxagoras and later Eudoxus and certain others used, is very easily '''upset'''; for it is not difficult to collect many insuperable objections to such a view.''

====Synonyms====
* (''make (a person) angry, distressed or unhappy''): ''See'' [[anger]], [[distress]] ''and'' [[sadden]]
* {{i-c|disturb|disrupt|adversely alter}} [[disrupt]], [[disturb]], [[turn upside down]]
* {{i-c|tip|overturn}} [[invert]], [[overturn]], [[tip]], tip over, tip up, turn over, turn upside down

====Derived terms====
* [[upset the applecart]]

====Translations====

{{trans-top|make (a person) angry, distressed or unhappy}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أغضب|tr='aghDaba|sc=Arab}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|刺激|tr=cìjī|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: [[van zijn stuk brengen]], [[overstuur maken]], [[verontrusten]]
* French: {{t|fr|énerver}}
* German: [[ärgern]], [[aufregen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|引っ繰り返す|tr=hikkuri-kaesu|sc=Jpan}}
* Romanian: [[tulburat]], [[nervos]], [[nefericit]]
* Russian: {{qualifier|imperfective}} {{t|ru|огорчать|tr=ogorčát'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|perfective}} {{t|ru|огорчить|tr=ogorčít'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|imperfective}} {{t|ru|сердить|tr=serdít'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|perfective}} {{t|ru|рассердить|tr=rasserdít'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|imperfective}} {{t|ru|расстраивать|tr=rasstráivat'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|perfective}} {{t|ru|расстроить|tr=rasstróit'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|disturb, disrupt, unfavorably alter}}
* Dutch: [[verstoren]], [[verwarren]]
* French: {{t|fr|bouleverser}}
* German: {{t|de|umstoßen}},  {{t|de|stürzen}},  {{t|de|umwerfen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{qualifier|imperfective}} {{t|ru|расстраивать|tr=rasstráivat'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{qualifier|perfective}} {{t|ru|расстроить|tr=rasstróit'|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tip, overturn}}
* Dutch: [[omstoten]], [[doen]] [[kapzeizen]]
* French: [[renverser]]
* German: [[umwerfen]] [[:de:umwerfen|^]], [[umkippen]] [[:de:umkippen|^]], [[umschlagen]] [[:de:umschlagen|^]], [[kentern]] [[:de:kentern|^]], [[umdrehen]], [[umkehren]] ''(transitiv)'', [[auf]] den [[Kopf]] [[stellen]] ''(fig. & idiomatic)''
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:English irregular past participles]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:upset]]
[[es:upset]]
[[fr:upset]]
[[io:upset]]
[[hu:upset]]
[[pl:upset]]
[[pt:upset]]
[[ru:upset]]
[[simple:upset]]
[[fi:upset]]
[[ta:upset]]
[[te:upset]]
[[uk:upset]]
[[vi:upset]]
[[zh:upset]]