==English==
{{elements|U|protactinium|Pa|neptunium|Np}}

===Etymology===
After {{m|en|Uranus}} (the planet), {{suffix|en||ium}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}}:
** {{IPA|/jʊˈɹeɪniəm/|lang=en}}
** {{audio|en-us-uranium.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪniəm|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}

# Uranium is a chemical element with symbol U and atomic number 92. It is a silvery-white metal in the actinide series of the periodic table. A uranium atom has 92 protons and 92 electrons, of which 6 are valence electrons. Uranium is weakly radioactive because all isotopes of uranium are unstable, with half-lives varying between 159,200 years and 4.5 billion years. The most common isotopes in natural uranium are uranium-238 (which has 146 neutrons and accounts for over 99%) and uranium-235 (which has 143 neutrons). Uranium has the highest atomic weight of the primordially occurring elements. Its density is about 70% higher than that of lead, and slightly lower than that of gold or tungsten. It occurs naturally in low concentrations of a few parts per million in soil, rock and water, and is commercially extracted from uranium-bearing minerals such as uraninite.[3]

In nature, uranium is found as uranium-238 (99.2739–99.2752%), uranium-235 (0.7198–0.7202%), and a very small amount of uranium-234 (0.0050–0.0059%).[4] Uranium decays slowly by emitting an alpha particle. The half-life of uranium-238 is about 4.47 billion years and that of uranium-235 is 704 million years,[5] making them useful in dating the age of the Earth.

Many contemporary uses of uranium exploit its unique nuclear properties. Uranium-235 is the only naturally occurring fissile isotope, which makes it widely used in nuclear power plants and nuclear weapons. However, because of the tiny amounts found in nature, uranium needs to undergo enrichment so that enough uranium-235 is present. Uranium-238 is fissionable by fast neutrons, and is fertile, meaning it can be transmuted to fissile plutonium-239 in a nuclear reactor. Another fissile isotope, uranium-233, can be produced from natural thor's hammer and is also important in nuclear technology. Uranium-238 has a small probability for spontaneous fission or even induced fission with fast neutrons; uranium-235 and to a lesser degree uranium-233 have a much higher fission cross-section for slow neutrons. In sufficient concentration, these isotopes maintain a sustained nuclear chain reaction. This generates the heat in nuclear power reactors, and produces the fissile material for nuclear weapons. Depleted uranium (238U) is used in kinetic energy penetrators and armor plating.[6] Uranium is used as a colorant in uranium glass, producing lemon yellow to green colors. Uranium glass fluoresces green in ultraviolet light. It was also used for tinting and shading in early photography.

The 1789 discovery of uranium in the mineral pitchblende is credited to Martin Heinrich Klaproth, who named the new element after the planet Uranus. Eugène-Melchior Péligot was the first person to isolate the metal and its radioactive properties were discovered in 1896 by Henri Becquerel. Research by Otto Hahn, Lise Meitner, Enrico Fermi and others, such as J. Robert Oppenheimer starting in 1934 led to its use as a fuel in the nuclear power industry and in Little Boy, the first nuclear weapon used in war. An ensuing arms race during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union produced tens of thousands of nuclear weapons that used uranium metal and uranium-derived plutonium-239. The security of those weapons and their fissile material following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 is an ongoing concern for public health and safety.[7] See Nuclear proliferation.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from uranium (noun)}}
* {{l|en|actino-uranium}}
* {{l|en|depleted uranium}}
* {{l|en|enriched uranium}}
* {{l|en|eka-uranium}}
* {{l|en|natural uranium}}
* {{l|en|triuranium octaoxide}}
* {{l|en|uran-}}
* {{l|en|uranate}}
* {{l|en|uraniate}}
* {{l|en|uranic}}
* {{l|en|uraniferous}}
* {{l|en|uraninite}}
* {{l|en|uranite}}
* {{l|en|uranium-232}}
* {{l|en|uranium-233}}
* {{l|en|uranium-234}}
* {{l|en|uranium-235}}
* {{l|en|uranium-238}}
* {{l|en|uranium-239}}
* {{l|en|uranium-240}}
* {{l|en|uranium acetate}}
* {{l|en|uranium-bloom}}
* {{l|en|uranium bomb}}
* {{l|en|uranium borohydride}}
* {{l|en|uranium dioxide}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|uranium fission}}
* {{l|en|uranium-green}}
* {{l|en|uranium hexafluoride}}
* {{l|en|uranium I}}
* {{l|en|uranium II}}
* {{l|en|uranium lead}}
* {{l|en|uranium-lead dating}}
* {{l|en|uranium nitrate}}
* {{l|en|uranium-ocher}}, {{l|en|uranium-ochre}}
* {{l|en|uranium-orange}}
* {{l|en|uranium oxide}}
* {{l|en|uranium phosphate}}
* {{l|en|uranium series}}
* {{l|en|uranium tetrafluoride}}
* {{l|en|uranium-thorium dating}}
* {{l|en|uranium trioxide}}
* {{l|en|uranium vitriol}}
* {{l|en|uranium X}}, {{l|en|uranium X1|uranium X<sub>1</sub>}}
* {{l|en|uranium X2|uranium X<sub>2</sub>}}
* {{l|en|uranium Y}}
* {{l|en|uranium-yellow}}
* {{l|en|uranium Z}}
* {{l|en|urano-}}
* {{l|en|uranous}}
* {{l|en|uranyl}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top|terms related to uranium}}
* {{l|en|Urania}}
* {{l|en|Uranian}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|uranate}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|uranium (element)}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|uraan}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|urani}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يُورَانْيُوم|m|tr=yuranyum}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ուրան}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|uraniu|m}}
* Azeri: {{t-needed|az}}
* Basque: {{t|eu|uranioa}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|ура́н|m}}
* Breton: {{t|br|uraniom}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|ура́н|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|urani}}
* Cherokee: {{t|chr|ᏳᏪᏂᎥᎻ|tr=yuwenivmi|sc=Cher}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|鈾|tr=yau4|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鈾|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|铀|tr=yóu|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|uranyum}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|uran|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|uran}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uranium|n}}, {{t+|nl|uraan|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|uranio}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|uraan}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|uran|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|uraani}}
* French: {{t+|fr|uranium|m}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|urani}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|uranio|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ურანი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Uran|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ουράνιο|n}}
* Gujarati: {{t|gu|કિરણાતુ|tr=kiranātu|sc=Gujr}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אורניום|tr=urányum}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|किरणातु|tr=kiranātu|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|urán}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|úran|n}}
* Inuktitut: {{t|iu|ᓄᖑᑦᓱᐃᑦᑐᖅ|sc=Cans}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|úráiniam}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|uranio|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|ウラン|tr=uran}}
* Kannada: {{t-needed|kn}}
* Kashubian: {{t|csb|ùran}}
* Khmer: {{t|km|អ៊ុយរ៉ាញ៉ូម|tr=uyraanyoum|sc=Khmr}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|우라늄}}, {{t|ko|우란}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|یورانیۆم|tr=yuranuom|sc=ku-Arab}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|uranium}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|urāns|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|uranas}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Uran}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ура́ниум|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|uranium}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|uranjum}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|uraanium}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|уран|sc=Cyrl}}
* Nahuatl: {{t|nah|ilhuicateotepoztli}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|łeetsoh}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|uran|n}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t+|nn|uran|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|اورانیوم|tr=orâniyom|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|uran|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|urânio|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|uraniu|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ура́н|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|uràiniam}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|уран|m}}, {{t|sh|ураниј|m}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|uran|m}}, {{t+|sh|uranij|m}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|urán|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|uran|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|uranio|m}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|urani}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|uran}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|uranyo}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|уран|sc=Cyrl}}
* Tamil: {{t|ta|அடரியம்}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|గురుత్వాకర్షణము|sc=Telu}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ยูเรเนียม}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uranyum}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|ура́н|m}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|uran}}
*: Cyrillic: {{t+|uz|уран}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|urani}}, {{t|vi|uran}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|luranin}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|uraniwm}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|uranium}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אוראַניום|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{projectlink|wikipedia}}
* {{l|en|autunite}}
* {{l|en|coffinite}}
* {{l|en|green salt}}
* {{l|en|hex}}
* {{l|en|oralloy}}
* {{l|en|pitchblende}}
* {{l|en|torbernite}}
* {{l|en|tuballoy}}
* {{l|en|yellowcake}}

[[Category:English eponyms]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
{{da-noun}}

# {{alternative form of|uran|lang=da}}

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}
{{elements|U|protactinium|Pa|neptunium|Np|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-uranium.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|n|-|-}}

# [[#English|uranium]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|nl|uraan}}

----

==French==
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}
* {{audio|Fr-uranium.ogg|Audio|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m|-}}

# [[#English|uranium]]

===Further reading===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[Category:fr:Chemical elements]]

----

==Latin==
{{wikipedia|lang=la}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|ūranium}}

===Noun===
{{la-noun|ūranium|ūraniī|n|second}}

# [[#English|uranium]]

====Inflection====
{{la-decl-2nd-N|ūrani}}

[[Category:la:Chemical elements]]

----

==Malay==
{{wikipedia|lang=ms}}
{{elements|U|protaktinium|Pa|neptunium|Np|lang=ms}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|ms}} {{m|en|uranium}}, from {{m|ms|Uranus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[uraniom]|[uraniəm]|[jureniəm]|lang=ms}}
* {{rhymes|iom|jom|om|lang=ms}}

===Noun===
{{head|ms|noun}}

# [[#English|uranium]] {{gloss|uranium (element)}}