{{also|Úrsula|Uršula|Uršuľa}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Name of a fourth century saint, {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|Ursula}}, from {{m|la|ursa||female bear}} and ''[[-ula]]'' (diminutive suffix), meaning "little she-bear".

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|from=Latin}}.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Ado|III}}:Scene I:
#*: Whisper her ear, and tell her, I and '''Ursula''' / Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse / Is all of her;
#* '''1857''' [[w:Dinah Craik|Dinah Craik]], [[s:John Halifax, Gentleman/Chapter III|John Halifax, Gentleman]], Chapter III:
#*: "Is her name '''Ursula'''?" And I called to mind the little girl who had tried to give some bread to the hungry John Halifax, and whose cry of pain we heard as the door shut upon her. Poor little lady! how sorry I was.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|Ursulian}}
* {{l|en|Ursuline}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|female given name}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|Uršula}}, {{t+|cs|Voršila|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Ursula}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|Ursula}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Ursule|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ursula}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|Orsolya}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|Orsola}}, {{t+|it|Ursula}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|Urszula}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Úrsula|f}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|Uorschla|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|Урсу́ла|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|Uršuľa|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t+|hsb|Wórša|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Úrsula}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Estonian==

===Etymology===
From {{der|et|la|Ursula}}.

===Proper noun===
{{head|et|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=et}}.

----

==Finnish==

===Etymology===
From {{bor|fi|la|Ursula}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fi-IPA}}
* {{hyphenation|Ur|su|la|lang=fi}}

===Proper noun===
{{fi-proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=fi}}.
#* '''1961''' Maria Partanen. ''Valkeat talot'', WSOY, page 84:
#*: Ja kaikki tekivät ehdotuksia. Minäkin olisin halunnut oikein kauniin nimen vauvalle mutta en saanut sitä sanotuksi, kukaan ei kysynyt minulta. Ja äiti sanoi:
#*: —Pannaankos '''Ursula''' Genoveva.
#*: Kaikki nauroivat mutta minun sydämessä tuntui ihan tuska. Hädissäni minä juoksin makuukamariin äidin sängyn alle ja rukoilin: hyvä Jumala elä anna niiden antaa vauvalle sellasta nimmee. Minä ihan itkin: '''Ursula''' Genoveva. Se oli kauhea, se oli ihan julma hyi se oli inhottava nimi.

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-kulkija|Ursul|a}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{der|de|la|Ursula}} in the Middle Ages.

===Proper noun===
{{head|de|proper noun}}

# {{given name|female|lang=de}}.

====Usage notes====
* Very popular in German speaking countries from the 1930s to the 1960s.

====Related terms====
* {{l|de|Ursel}}
* {{l|de|Uschi}}

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{der|sv|la|Ursula}}. First recorded in Sweden in 1477.

===Proper noun===
{{sv-proper noun|c}}

# {{given name|female|lang=sv}}.

===See also===
* {{l|da|Yrsa}}