{{DEFAULTSORT:able}}
{{also|able}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|-ible}} {{qualifier|not productive}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ə.bl̩/|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
* From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}, from {{m|la|-a-}} or {{m|la|-i-}} + {{m|la|-bilis||capable or worthy of being acted upon}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} i-stem form {{m|ine-pro|*-dʰli-}} of {{m|ine-pro|*-dʰlom||instrumental suffix}}.
* Not closely related etymologically, though currently related semantically, to ''[[able]]''.
* Displaced native Old English {{m|ang|-bǣre||bearing, making, worth}}, from Proto-Germanic {{m|gem-pro|*bēriz}}; and {{m|ang|-lic||like, having the quality of}}, from Proto-Germanic {{m|gem-pro|*-līkaz}}.
* Compare German {{m|de|-bar}}, Dutch {{m|nl|-baar}}.

====Suffix====
{{en-suffix|cat2=adjective-forming suffixes}}

# {{non-gloss definition|An [[adjectival]] [[suffix]]; forms adjectives meaning:}}
## [[able|Able]] to be [[done]]; fit to be done.
##: mov'''able''': able to be moved
##: amend'''able''': able to be amended
##: break'''able''': liable to broken
##: blam'''able''': fit to be blamed
##: sal'''able''': fit to be sold
## Relevant to or suitable to, in accordance with.
##: fashion'''able''': relevant to fashion
##: season'''able''': suitable to season
## Giving, or inclined to.
##: pleasur'''able''': giving pleasure
##: peace'''able''': inclined to peace
## Subject to.
##: report'''able''': subject to be reported
##: tax'''able''': subject to be taxed
## Due to be.
##: pay'''able''': due to pay

=====Usage notes=====
* Originally used only on French and Latin words, like [[separable]]. Over time ''-able'' was added to stems of English verbs ending in ''-ate'', such as [[educable]]. Finally, due to probable confusion with the word [[able]], it was used to form adjectives from all sorts of verbs, nouns, and even verb phrases, such as [[kickable]], [[get-at-able]], and [[clubbable]].
* While a terminal silent ''-e'' is usually dropped when adding a suffix beginning with a vowel, which is followed by '''-able''', the ''-e'' is ''not'' dropped when adding '''-able''' if the root ends with a soft ''-ce'' and ''-ge'', as in {{m|en|replaceable}} and {{m|en|changeable}}, so that these are not misinterpreted as hard ‘c’ or ‘g’ sounds. This same rule is used for {{m|en|-ous}}, as in {{m|en|courageous}}.
* As when adding the suffix {{m|en|-ed}}, a final consonant of a root should be doubled if the preceding vowel is short and (in British English) stressed.
* The form {{m|en|-ible}} has the same senses and pronunciation. The choice between the two is somewhat idiosyncratic, but in general, {{m|en||-ible}} is used in forms derived from Latin verbs of the second, third, and fourth conjugations, and in a few words whose roots end in a soft ''c'' or ''g'', while {{m|en||-able}} is used in all other such words, particularly those formed from Latin verbs of the first conjugation and those that come from French or from Anglo-Saxon (Old English). Fowler's ''English Usage'' recommends using {{m|en||-ible}} for simplicity's sake in ''any'' word whose root ends in a soft ''c'' or ''g'' to avoid ''-eable'' (e.g., {{m|en|*changible}} rather than {{m|en|changeable}}), but this recommendation has generally not been followed.
* A number of adjectives in {{m|en||-able}} come from verbs that do not have direct objects, but that rather are construed with prepositions. In these cases, the preposition does not appear with the adjective in {{m|en||-able}}; hence, {{m|en|reliable||fit to being [[rely|relied]] on}}, {{m|en|laughable||suited for [[laugh|laughing]] at}}, {{m|en|remarkable||fit to be [[remark|remarked]] upon}}, and so on.
* Traditionally, verbs ending in {{m|en|-ate}} drop this suffix before adding {{m|en||-able}}; hence, {{m|en|communicable||able to be [[communicate]]d}}, {{m|en|eradicable||possible to [[eradicate]]}}, {{m|en|implacable||unable to be [[placated]]}}, {{m|en|inimitable||unable to [[imitated]]}}, and so on, but {{m|en|relatable}}, because ''relate'' is ''re-'' + ''-late'', not ''rel-'' + ''-ate''. Logically one should therefore say ''[[rotable]]'' to mean "able to be rotated", but {{m|en|rotatable}} has become accepted.
* There are cases where a word with ''[[un-]] -able'' is much more common than one with just ''-able'', such as ''[[unbreakable]]'', ''[[unsinkable]]'', and ''[[untouchable]]''.

=====Derived terms=====
{{suffixsee|en}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|able to be done}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|-ի|sc=Armn}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|-able}}, {{t|ca|-ible}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|得|alt=-得|tr=-dak1|sc=Hani}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|可|alt=可-|sc=Hani}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|-adow}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|-elný}}
* Danish: {{t|da|-bar}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|-baar}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|-tava}}, {{t|fi|-tava|alt=-tävä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|-able}}, {{t+|fr|-ible}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|-abel}}
* German: {{t+|de|-bar}}, {{t+|de|-abel}} {{qualifier|for words from Latin or Romance languages}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|-ható}}, {{t|hu|-hető}}
* Ido: {{t|io|-ebla}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|-abile}}, {{t|ia|-ibile}}
* Italian: {{t|it|-abile}}, {{t|it|-ibile}}, {{t|it|-evole|m|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|られる|alt=-られる|tr=-rareru}}
* Low German:
*: German Low German: {{t+|nds-de|-bor}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|-abel}}, {{t|no|-ibel}}
* Old Saxon: {{t|osx|-bar}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|-ável}}, {{t|pt|-ível}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|-abil}}, {{t|ro|-ibil}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|-я́емый}}, {{t|ru|-а́емый}}, {{t|ru|-и́мый}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|-able}}, {{t+|es|-ible}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|-bar}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|-adwy}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fit to be done}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|-baar}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|-kelpoinen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|られる|alt=-られる|tr=-rareru}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|yn-}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|-ável}}, {{t|pt|-ível}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|relevant or suitable to, in accordance with}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|-kas}}, {{t+|fi|-kas|alt=-käs}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|-abil}}, {{t|ro|-ibil}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense}}
* German: {{t|de|-wert}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|due to be}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|-able}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{qualifier|before the infinitive}} {{t+|nl|te}} (5)
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|-ebla}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|-tava}}, {{t|fi|-tava|alt=-tävä}} (5)
* German: {{t-check|de|-bar}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|-abile}}, {{t-check|it|-ibile}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t-check|la|-abilis}}, {{t-check|la|-ibilis}}
* {{ttbc|mk}}: [[-лив]] (-liv)
* Romanian: {{t-check|ro|-abil}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|-able}}, {{t+check|es|-ible}}
* Swedish: {{t+check|sv|-bar}} (1,2)
* {{ttbc|tr}}: -ebil or -abil (because of vowel harmony)
* {{ttbc|cy}}: -adwy
* West Frisian: {{t-check|fy|-ber}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|en|able}}
* {{l|en|ability}}
* {{l|en|-ability}}

[[Category:English productive suffixes|able]]

===Etymology 2===
* From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|fro|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|-a-}} + {{m|la|-bulum||instrumental suffix}} or {{m|la|-bula||instrumental suffix}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*-dʰlom||instrumental suffix}}. Related to {{etyl|la|en}} suffixes {{m|la|-brum}} ({{m|en|candelabrum}}) and {{m|la|-bra}} ({{m|en|vertebra}}).

====Suffix====
{{en-suffix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|An [[instrumental]] [[suffix]]; forms nouns representing:}}
## a tool or instrument.
##: f'''able'''
##: t'''able'''
##: voc'''able'''
## a place or location
##: concili'''able'''
##: incun'''able'''
##: st'''able'''

=====Usage notes=====
* This use of ''-able'' its related form ''-ible'' are not productive in English. Confusion may arise from mistaking nouns ending with these suffixes as being forms derived from the adjectival suffixes mentioned in Etymology 1 above.

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* {{l|en|conciliable}}
* {{l|en|fable}}
* {{l|en|incunable}}
{{der-mid}}
* {{l|en|stable}}
* {{l|en|table}}
* {{l|en|vocable}}
{{der-bottom}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ca}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{ca-IPA}}

===Suffix===
{{ca-adj|suff=1|mf}}

# {{l|en|-able}}

====Usage notes====
This suffix is used for verbs of the [[:Category:Catalan first conjugation verbs|first conjugation]], which end in {{m|ca|-ar}} and are the most common. For other verbs, the suffix is {{m|ca|-ible}}.

====Derived terms====
{{suffixsee|ca}}

----

==French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fro|fr}}, from {{etyl|la|fr}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{fr-IPA}}

===Suffix===
{{fr-adj|suff=y}}

# {{l|en|-able}}

[[Category:French terms spelled with -]]

----

==Middle French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|fro|frm}}, from {{etyl|la|frm}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}.

===Suffix===
{{head|frm|suffix|plural|-ables}}

# {{l|en|-able}}

----

==Old French==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|la|fro}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}.

===Suffix===
{{head|fro|suffix|plural|-ables}}

# {{non-gloss definition|worthy of, deserving of}}
#: {{l|fro|honnorable||honorable}}
# {{non-gloss definition|[[-ing]], creating an effect, an influence}}
#: {{l|fro|forsenable||maddening}}

====Descendants====
* English: {{l|en|-able}}
* French: {{l|fr|-able}}

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{m|la|-ābilis}}.

===Suffix===
{{head|es|suffix|plural|-ables}}

# {{l|en|-able}}

[[Category:Spanish terms spelled with -]]

[[da:-able]]
[[et:-able]]
[[es:-able]]
[[fr:-able]]
[[ko:-able]]
[[ku:-able]]
[[ja:-able]]
[[no:-able]]
[[pl:-able]]
[[ru:-able]]
[[sv:-able]]
[[th:-able]]
[[zh:-able]]