{{also|um|UM|.um|-um-|'um|um-|Appendix:Variations of "um"}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/əm/}}
** {{rhymes|en|əm|s=1}}

===Etymology 1===
From the [[homographic]] [[w:Grammatical case|case]] endings of the [[Appendix:Glossary#nominative|nominative]], [[Appendix:Glossary#accusative|accusative]], and [[Appendix:Glossary#vocative|vocative]] forms of numerous [[Appendix:Latin second declension#Neuter|neuter]] {{bor|en|la|-}} [[Appendix:Latin second declension#Neuter|second declension]] nouns.

====Suffix====
{{head|en|suffix|plural|-a}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Denotes [[singular]] [[grammatical]] [[number]].}}
# {{lb|en|chemistry}} Forms the ends of the names of certain [[element]]s (such as [[molybdenum]] and [[platinum]]).

=====Usage notes=====
* The vast majority of words which feature this suffix also have standard ''-ums'' plurals formed by suffixation with the {{m|en|-s}} plural suffix. However, in such situations, the {{m|en||-s}} suffix morphologically is additional to and separate from the {{m|en||-um}} suffix.

=====Derived terms=====
{{rel-top4|Terms which feature the ''-um'' suffix}}
* {{l|en|criterium}}
* {{l|en|datum}}
* {{l|en|decennium}}
* {{l|en|delirium}}
* {{l|en|desideratum}}
* {{l|en|erratum}} (''cf. German [[Irrtum]]'')
* {{l|en|fatum}}
* {{l|en|forum}}
* {{l|en|gymnasium}}
* {{l|en|honorarium}}
* {{l|en|imperium}}
* {{l|en|interbellum}} (''between war(s)'')
{{rel-mid4}}
* {{l|en|labarum}}
* {{l|en|lucidum}}
* {{l|en|mandatum}}
* {{l|en|maximum}}
* {{l|en|medium}}
* {{l|en|minimum}}
* {{l|en|millennium}}
* {{l|en|modicum}}
* {{l|en|mortuarium}}
* {{l|en|museum}}
* {{l|en|opium}}
* {{l|en|optimum}}
{{rel-mid4}}
* {{l|en|Persarum}}
* {{l|en|pessarium}}
* {{l|en|podium}}
* {{l|en|postbellum}} (''after war'')
* {{l|en|referendum}}
* {{l|en|sanatorium}}
* {{l|en|solarium}}
* {{l|en|stadium}}
* {{l|en|talcum}} (''any shiny mineral'')
* {{l|en|tedium}}
{{rel-mid4}}
* {{l|en|ultimatum}}
* {{l|en|unicum}}
* {{l|en|vacuum}}
* {{l|en|Valium}}
{{rel-bottom}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|Latinate singular grammatical number suffix}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|-um}}
* French: {{t+|fr|-um}}
* German: {{t|de|-um}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|-ο}}, {{t|el|-ον}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|-o}}, {{t+|it|-a}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ウム|tr=[[-umu]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|-o}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|-o}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|-um}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
{{rel-top5|See also}}
* {{l|en|-a}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* {{l|en|-ium}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* {{l|en|-on}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* {{l|en|-os}}
{{rel-mid5}}
* {{l|en|-us}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Possibly from {{m|en|'em}}.

====Suffix====
{{en-suffix}}

# Denotes transitive verbs in the trade pidgins used between English-speakers and indigenous populations; used derogatorily by extension in English by addition to any verb, transitive or not.
#* '''1871''', Mrs. Edward Millett, ''An Australian parsonage; or, The settler and the savage in Western Australia'', p. 129:
#*: Having finished her return of deaths, she went on to say "Black fellow sick—white lady fowl send'''um'''—white lady kangaroo send'''um'''—master all self eat'''um'''—" but here she paused and made an exception in favour of the matron, expressed by the words " Missis not eat'''um'''—missis good fellow."
#* '''1896''', F J Stimsom, ''King Noanett: A Story of Old Virginia and the Massachusetts Bay'', p. 254:
#*: "Giv'''um''' dinner; smok'''um''' pipe," was all that we could get out of Quatchett.

=====Derived terms=====
{{sense|any sense}}
{{suffixsee|en}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=mu|-mu-|MU|Mu|mu}}

----

==Bislama==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|bi|-em}}
* {{l|bi|-im}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|bi|en|him}}, {{m|bi|'em}}

===Suffix===
{{head|bi|suffix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Indicates a [[transitive verb]]}}

====Usage notes====
The suffix to be used is determined by [[w:vowel harmony|vowel harmony]]. If the last vowel in the stem is ''u'', then the suffix is ''-um''. Otherwise, use {{m|bi|-em}} or {{m|bi|-im}}.

----

==Dutch==

===Suffix===
{{head|nl|suffix|cat2=inflectional suffixes|plural|-a|or|-ums}}

# Denotes [[singular]] [[grammatical]] [[number]] of words of Latin origins.

====Usage notes====
* Both the plural forms of ''-a'' and ''-ums'' are used in everyday language, but the latter is sometimes proscribed against.

===See also===
* {{l|nl|-s}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/ʊm/}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{der|de|la|-um}}.

====Suffix====
{{head|de|suffix|g=n|plural|-en|or|-a}}

# {{ngd|Generally unproductive suffix found in neuter nouns of Latin origin.}}

===Etymology 2===
As a variant of {{m|de|-heim}} through reduction to {{IPAchar|[əm]}} and subsequent backing. Compare {{m|de|-em}}. This is the only origin in most areas, but along the North Sea coast, where the suffix is most frequent, it sometimes goes back to {{der|de|ofs|-em|-em, -um|pos=dative plural ending}}, equivalent to {{m+|de|-en}} as in {{m|de|-hausen}}. Distinguishing both origins is often impossible, however.

====Suffix====
{{head|de|suffix}}

# {{ngd|A placename suffix, often an}} {{alternative form of|de|-heim|nocap=1}}.

=====Derived terms=====
{{col4|de|Adlum|Archsum|Arnum|Bachum|Baltrum|Berum|Bochum|Bolzum|Bordelum|Borgsum|Borkum|Bornum|Breklum|Borsum|Brinkum|Bültum|Büsum|Critzum|Dersum|Ditzum|Dornum|Dunsum|Eitzum|Filsum|Harsum|Hatzum|Heinum|Heyersum|Holsthum|Hörnum|Horum|Hüdessum|Husum|Itzum|Jemgum|Keitum|Königsdahlum|Luttrum|Machtsum|Mahlum|Mehrum|Midlum|Morsum|Niedlum|Ochtersum|Oevenum|Ohlum|Oltsum|Östrum|Pelkum|Petkum|Rantum|Risum|Sorsum|Stockum|Süderlügum|Sustrum|Suttrum|Tinnum|Utersum|Vöhrum|Walchum|Wankum|Werdum|Wirdum|Wrixum}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
From {{der|hu|la|-um||2nd declension neuter nominative singular termination}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{hu-IPA}}

===Suffix===
{{head|hu|suffix}}

# A distinguishable foreign word-ending in [[noun]]s of Latin origin. It is not considered an independent Hungarian suffix.
#: {{m|hu|abszurdum|abszurd'''um'''|absurdity}}

===See also===
* [[:Category:Hungarian nouns suffixed with -um]]
* [[Appendix:Hungarian suffixes]]

===References===
* [http://martonfi.hu/phd/martonfi_attila_-_theses.pdf Attila Mártonfi: The System of the Hungarian Suffixes], Theses of PhD Dissertation, Budapest, 2006

----

==Icelandic==

===Suffix===
{{head|is|suffix|cat2=inflectional suffixes}}

# Used to form the dative plural of most nouns, all strong adjectives and most pronouns.
#* ''[[hestur]] → [[hestur|hest'''um''']]'' — a [[horse]] → of the horses
#* ''[[ríkur]] → [[ríkur|rík'''um''']]'' — [[rich]] → of the rich
# Used to form the first person plural of verbs in the indicative and subjunctive, past and present.
#* [[telja]] (infinitive) → ''við'' '''teljum''' (''we'' [[count]] or [[believe]]) ([[indicative]])
#* ''við'' '''teldum''' [[subjunctive]] [[past]] [[tense]], i.e., ''we would believe''
# Used to form some [[adverbs]] from nouns or adjectives — it is actually a frozen [[dative]]
#* [[stund]] ([[time]], [[hour]]) → [[stundum]] — sometimes
#* [[langur]] ([[long]]) → [[löngum]] ([[oftentimes]]).

----

==Latin==

===Pronunciation===
* {{la-IPA|um}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|la|itc-pro|*-om}}, from {{inh|la|ine-pro|*-om|pos=thematic masculine singular accusative and neuter singular nominative and accusative ending}}

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|la|-om}} (''conditioned variant used after '' -v-, -qu-, -gu-, -u- ''up through the middle of the first century AD'')

====Suffix====
{{la-suffix-form|-um}}

# {{inflection of|la|-us||acc|m|s|;|nom//acc//voc|n|s}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|la|itc-pro|*-om}}, from {{inh|la|ine-pro|*-oHom|pos=genitive plural ending}}

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|la|-ûm}} (''formerly used in New Latin and modern editions of Old/Classical/Late Latin works on words of the first and second declension; see usage notes'')
* {{alter|la|-om}} (''conditioned variant used after '' -v-, -qu-, -gu-, -u- ''up through the middle of the first century AD'')

====Suffix====
{{head|la|suffix|head=-um|cat2=inflectional suffixes}}

# {{n-g|genitive plural ending}}

=====Usage notes=====
Latin genitive plural forms take the ending ''-um'' either by itself or with additional preceding material (generally determined by the word's conjugation class). First and second declension nouns and adjectives usually have genitive plural forms ending in ''-ārum'' and ''-ōrum'', but in some contexts take the short ending ''-um'' (without preceding ''-ār-/-ōr-'') instead: this is common with words denoting weights, measures and monetary value and with distributive numerals.<ref>Roby, Henry John. [https://www.google.com/books/edition/A_Grammar_of_the_Latin_Language_from_Pla/KYpfAAAAMAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&pg=PA124&printsec=frontcover A Grammar of the Latin Language from Plautus to Suetonius], Volume 1, (1872), page 124</ref><ref>Zumpt, Karl Gottlob. [https://books.google.com/books?id=A7NAAAAAYAAJ&newbks=0&printsec=frontcover&pg=PA10 A Grammar of the Latin Language], Fourth Edition, translated by John Kenrick (1836), page 10</ref>

* second declension words with genitive plurals in ''-um'':
** distributive numerals
** names of weights and measures: {{m|la|dēnārius}}, {{m|la|medimnum}}, {{m|la|nummus}}, {{m|la|sēstertius}}, {{m|la|stadium}}, {{m|la|talentum}} 
** {{m|la|deus}} and {{m|la|dīvus}} (the latter having the archaic genitive plural form ''divom'' with O due to the preceding V)
** various other words, especially in poetry
* first declension words with genitive plurals in ''-um'':
** the measure words  and {{m|la|amphora}} and {{m|la|drachma}} (less frequently than ''drachmarum'')
** in dactylic verse, compounds of ''-cola'' and ''-gena''
** some masculine Greek proper nouns, such as patronymics

In New Latin texts, the genitive plural suffix ''-um'' was formerly often spelled with an accent as ''-ûm'' when it appears in place of ''-ōrum'' or ''-ārum'' (as in ''deûm'' or ''amphorûm''). This circumflexed spelling appears to have been motivated by the reinterpretation of the ending as a contraction of ''-ōrum/-ārum'', leading to the assumption that the final syllable in forms like ''amphorum'' contained a long vowel. For the same reason, it can be found spelled as ''-ūm'' in some sources that use macrons to mark long vowels, such as Lewis and Short's ''Latin Dictionary.'' However, this interpretation is outdated: according to modern etymological understanding, all Latin words ending in ''-um'', regardless of which declension they belong to, had a short vowel in the final syllable in Classical Latin pronunciation<ref>Piet Steenbakkers, ''Spinoza's Ethica from Manuscript to Print: Studies on text, form and related topics'', 1994, [https://books.google.com/books?id=WpLyabFPAYkC&pg=PA78#v=onepage&q&f=false page 78]</ref>.

Other factors that may have contributed to the use of the spelling ''-ûm'' are influence from the spelling of Greek genitive plural forms ending in -ῶν or desire to disambiguate genitive plural forms from accusative singular forms which would otherwise be spelled the same.

====References====
<references/>

----

==Old Irish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|sga|/um/}}

===Suffix===
{{head|sga|suffix|cat2=personal pronouns|[[Appendix:Old Irish affixed pronouns|suffixed pronoun]]}}

# [[me]]

====Derived terms====
{{suffixsee|sga}}

====See also====
{{sga-affixed pronouns}}

----

==Old Norse==

===Suffix===
{{head|non|suffix|cat2=inflectional suffixes}}

# {{n-g|Used to form the dative plural of essentially all nouns and adjectives, as well as most pronouns}}
#* ''armr'' → '''''ǫ'''rm'''um'''''
# {{n-g|Used to denote the 1st person plural forms in the active indicative and imperative forms of most verbs}}

----

==Phalura==

===Etymology===
{{rfe|phl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|phl|/-um/}}

===Suffix===
{{head|phl|suffix}}

# First person singular suffix

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|phl|-úum||With a- and e-ending verb stems}}
* {{alter|phl|-áam||With a- and e-ending verb stems in Biori}}

===References===
* {{R:phl:Liljegren:Vocab}}

----

==Pijin==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|pis|-em}}
* {{l|pis|-im}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|pis|en|him}}, {{m|pis|'em}}

===Suffix===
{{head|pis|suffix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Indicates a [[transitive verb]]}}

====Usage notes====
The suffix to be used is determined by [[w:vowel harmony|vowel harmony]]. If the last vowel in the stem is ''u'', then the suffix is ''-um''. Otherwise, use {{m|pis|-em}} or {{m|pis|-im}}.

----

==Scots==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|sco|-im}}, {{l|sco|-om}}, {{l|sco|-am}}, {{l|sco|-em}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|sco|enm|-um}}, from {{inh|sco|ang|-um}}, dative plural ending used to form adverbials.

====Suffix====
{{head|sco|suffix}}

# {{lb|sco|rare}} Used to form adverbs.
#: {{m|sco|legim||astride}}

===Etymology 2===
Probably of jocular formation, based partly on Latin {{m|la|-um}} and partly an altered form of {{m|sco|-ings|-in(g)s}}, a verbal noun ending.

====Suffix====
{{head|sco|suffix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Added to nouns or verbs to form nouns with [[diminutive]] or [[hypocoristic]] force}}

----

==Swedish==

===Suffix===
{{head|sv|suffix|g=n}}

# {{non-gloss definition|ending used for some words of Latin origin}}

====Usage notes====
* The plural is usually either ''-um'' or rarely, {{m|sv|-a}}, e.g. {{m|sv|centrum}} or {{m|sv|centra}}. In some words it may also be {{m|sv|-er}}, i.e. {{m|sv|centrer}}, cf. {{m|sv|-ium}} which regularly has a plural on {{m|sv|-ier}}, although sometimes also {{m|sv|-ium}} in colloquial language. The Latin plural ending {{m|sv|-a}} is nowadays {{glossary|proscribed}}.

====Derived terms====
{{suffixsee|sv}}

===See also===
* {{l|sv|-ium}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|sv|a=mu|mu}}

----

==Turkish==

===Suffix===
{{head|tr|suffix}}

# First-person singular possessive suffix denoting singular possession in words ending in a consonant.
#: ''[[okul]] - [[okulum]]''
#:: school - my school
#: ''[[yol]] - [[yolum]]''
#:: way - my way
# Conjugation of the verb "to be" for first person singular simple present tense.
#: ''[[masum]] - [[masumum]]''
#:: innocent - I am innocent

====Usage notes====
* If the noun ends in a vowel, it becomes "[[-m]]" (for the possessive suffix)
*: ''[[soru]] - [[sorum]]''
* It's used only when the word's last vowel is "o" or "u". It may change into "[[-im]]", "[[-ım]]" and "[[-üm]]" according to the last vowel of the word. (possessive suffix)
*: ''[[ev]] - [[evim]]'' (the last vowel is "e" or "i")
*: ''[[kız]] - [[kızım]]'' (the last vowel is "a" or "ı")
*: ''[[yüz]] - [[yüzüm]]'' (the last vowel is "ö" or "ü")
* If the word ends in "p", "ç", "t" or "k", it may change them into "b", "c", "d" and "ğ".
*: ''[[grup]] - [[grubum]]''
*: ''[[burç]] - [[burcum]]''
*: ''[[periyot]] - [[periyodum]]''
*: ''[[çocuk]] - [[çocuğum]]''
* It may cause the last vowel of the word to be dropped.
*: ''[[burun|bur'''u'''n]] - [[burnum|'''burn'''um]]''
* If the word ends in a vowel, an auxiliary consonant is used ; "y". (for the verb to be)
*: ''[[mutlu]] - [[mutluyum]]''
* It must be used with an [[apostrophe]] while using with a proper noun.
*: ''[[Umut]] - [[Umut'um]]''

----

==Volapük==

===Suffix===
{{head|vo|suffix}}

# {{non-gloss definition|Used to form the comparative form of adjectives.}}