{{also|Wake}}
==English==
{{rfc|lang=en|Headword line is a mess}}
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈweɪk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-wake.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪk|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|Wake|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
* {{etyl|enm|en}} ''[[waken]]'', {{etyl|ang|en}} ''[[wacan]]'', from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*wakaną}}.
* {{etyl|enm|en}} ''[[wakien]]'', {{etyl|ang|en}} ''[[wacian]]'', from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*wakjaną}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|wakes|waking|''(senses 1, 2, 3, 5)'' '''[[woke]]''' ''or'' ''(US, or English dialectal; archaic elsewhere (senses 1, 2, 3, 5) (sense 4)'' '''[[waked]]'''|''(senses 1, 2, 3, 5)'' '''[[woken]]''' ''or'' ''(US, or English dialectal; archaic elsewhere (senses 1, 2, 3, 5) (sense 4)'' '''[[waked]]'''}}

# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} (often followed by ''[[up]]'') To stop [[sleep]]ing.
#: ''I '''woke''' up at four o'clock this morning.''
#* '''1898''', {{w|J. Meade Falkner}}, {{w|Moonfleet}} Chapter 4
#*: How long I slept I cannot tell, for I had nothing to guide me to the time, but '''woke''' at length, and found myself still in darkness.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} (often followed by ''[[up]]'') To make somebody stop sleeping; to [[rouse]] from sleep.
#* Bible, Zech. iv. 1
#*: The angel {{...}} came again and '''waked''' me.
#: ''The neighbour's car alarm '''woke''' me from a strange dream.''
# {{context|transitive|figurative|lang=en}} To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.
#* Milton
#*: lest fierce remembrance '''wake''' my sudden rage
#* J. R. Green
#*: Even Richard's crusade '''woke''' little interest in his island realm.
# {{context|intransitive|figurative|lang=en}} To be excited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active.
#* Milton
#*: Gentle airs due at their hour / To fan the earth now '''waked'''.
#* Keble
#*: Then '''wake''', my soul, to high desires.
# To lay out a body prior to [[burial]] in order to allow family and friends to pay their [[last respects]].
# To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.
# To be or remain awake; not to sleep.
#* Bible, Eccles. xlii. 9
#*: The father '''waketh''' for the daughter.
#* Milton
#*: Though wisdom '''wake''', suspicion sleeps.
#* John Locke
#*: I cannot think any time, '''waking''' or sleeping, without being sensible of it.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To be alert; to keep watch
#* Command unto the guards that they diligently '''wake'''.
# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} To sit up late for festive purposes; to hold a night revel.
#* Shakespeare
#*: The king doth '''wake''' to-night, and takes his rouse, / Keeps wassail, and the swaggering upspring reels.

=====Related terms=====
* {{l/en|wacken}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to stop sleeping}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|dihuniñ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|събуждам се}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vzbudit se}}, {{t|cs|probudit se}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vågne}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontwaken}}, {{t|nl|wakker worden}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|vekiĝi}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|vakna}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|herätä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se réveiller}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufwachen}}, {{t+|de|erwachen}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|להתעורר|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felébred}}, {{t+|hu|felkel}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|bangun}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|dúisigh}}
* Italian: {{t|it|risvegliarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|目覚める|tr=mezameru}}, {{t+|ja|起きる|tr=okiru}}, {{t|ja|目が覚める|tr= me ga sameru}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|일어나다|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t|la|excito|alt=e somno excitare}}, {{t|la|evigilo}}, {{t|la|evigilor}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|erwächen}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|obudzić się}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acordar}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|trezi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|просыпа́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|просну́ться|pf}}, {{t+|ru|пробужда́ться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|пробуди́ться|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dùisg}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zobudiť sa}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|despertarse}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|kuamka}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vakna}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|నిద్రలేపుట|tr=nidralepuṭa|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uyanmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to make somebody stop sleeping}}
* Breton: {{t+|br|dihuniñ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|събуждам}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|vzbudit}}, {{t|cs|probudit}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vække}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|wekken}}, {{t|nl|wakker maken}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|veki}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|vekja}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|herättää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|réveiller}}
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: {{t+|de|aufwecken}}, {{t+|de|wecken}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|להעיר|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|felébreszt}}, {{t+|hu|felkelt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|dúisigh}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|起こす|tr=okosu}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|erwächen}}
* Old Frisian: {{t|ofs|wakia}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|obudzić}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|acordar}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|trezi}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|буди́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|разбуди́ть|pf}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|zobudiť}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|despertar}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|kuamsha}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|väcka}}
* Telugu: {{t|te|నిద్ర ఆపుట|tr=nidra apuṭa|sc=Telu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kaldırmak}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|wekje}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Crimean Tatar: {{t-check|crh|yanmaq}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|bangun}}, {{t-check|id|bangkit}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|svegliarsi}}, {{t-check|it|svegliare}}
* Korean: {{t-check|ko|깨다|sc=Kore}}
* Turkish: {{t-check|tr|uyanmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|poetic|lang=en}} The act of waking, or state of being awake.
#* Shakespeare
#*: Making such difference 'twixt '''wake''' and sleep.
#* Dryden
#*: Singing her flatteries to my morning '''wake'''.
# The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil.
#* Dryden
#*: The warlike '''wakes''' continued all the night, / And funeral games played at new returning light.
#* Milton
#*: The wood nymphs, decked with daises trim, / Their merry '''wakes''' and pastimes keep.

===Etymology 2===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|wacu|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*wakō}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A period after a person's [[death]] before the body is buried, in some cultures accompanied by a [[party]].
# {{context|historical|Church of England|lang=en}} An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking.
#* Ld. Berners
#*: Great solemnities were made in all churches, and great fairs and '''wakes''' throughout all England.
#* Drayton
#*: And every village smokes at '''wakes''' with lusty cheer.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[death watch]]

=====See also=====
* [[arval]], [[arvel]]

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|period after death}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wake}}, {{t|nl|dodenwake}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|vøka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ruumiinvalvojaiset}}, {{t|fi|[[vainajan]] [[valvojaiset]]}}, {{t|fi|hautajaiskahvit}}
* French: {{t|fr|veillée funèbre}}
* German: {{t+|de|Totenwache|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|veglia|f}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|경야|sc=Kore}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|šermenys|f-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|czuwanie|n}}, {{t|pl|[[przy]] [[zwłoki|zwłokach]]}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|velório|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|priveghi|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поми́нки|f-p}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vigilia|f}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|gwylnos|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Probably {{etyl|gml|en}}, from {{etyl|non|en}} {{term|vǫk||a hole in the ice|lang=non}} ( > Danish {{term|våge|lang=da}}, Icelandic ''[[vök]]'').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The path left behind a ship on the surface of the water.
# The turbulent air left behind a flying aircraft.
# {{context|figuratively|lang=en}} The area behind something, typically a rapidly moving object.
#* De Quincey
#*: This effect followed immediately in the '''wake''' of his earliest exertions.
#* Thackeray
#*: Several humbler persons {{...}} formed quite a procession in the dusty '''wake''' of his chariot wheels.
#* {{quote-news|year=2011
|date=September 28
|author=Tom Rostance
|title=Arsenal   2 - 1   Olympiakos
|work=BBC Sport
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/14998317.stm
|page=
|passage=Alex Song launched a long ball forward from the back and the winger took it down nicely on his chest. He cut across the penalty area from the right and after one of the three defenders in his '''wake''' failed to make a meaningful clearance, the Oxlade-Chamberlain was able to dispatch a low left-footed finish into the far corner.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|path left behind a ship on the surface of the water}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|kielzog|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vanavesi}}, {{t|fi|peräaalto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sillage|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Kielwasser|n}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|kjölfar|n}}, {{t+|is|slóð|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|scia}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|航跡|tr=kōseki}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kōrinorino}}, {{t|mi|kōriporipo}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kilwater|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esteira|f}}, {{t+|pt|sulco|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|siaj|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кильва́тер|m|tr=kilʹvátɛr}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|uisge-stiùireach|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|estela|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kölvatten|n}}
* Volapük: {{t|vo|kuilavat}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|turbulent air left behind a flying aircraft}}
* French: {{t+|fr|sillage|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Nachlauf|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|turbolenza|f}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|smuga kondensacyjna|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|estela|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[in the wake of]]
* [[wakes]]

===Etymology 4===
{{rfe|lang=en}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A number of [[vultures]] assembled together.

=====See also=====
* [[flock]]

===Related terms===
* [[wait]]
* [[watch]]

===Anagrams===
* [[weak]]

[[Category:English ergative verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English terms with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:en:Funeral]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈʋaː.kə/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-wake.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{m|odt|*waka}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{m|gem-pro|*wakō}}.

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|f|-en|-}}

# A [[#English|wake]] (a gathering to remember a dead person).

===Verb===
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|n=sg|t=pres|m=subj|waken}}

----

==Japanese==

===Romanization===
{{ja-romaji}}

# {{ja-romanization of|わけ}}

----

==Swahili==

===Noun===
{{head|sw|plural}}

# {{plural of|mke|lang=sw}}

===Adjective===
{{head|sw|adjective form}}

# {{sw-adj form of|m|ake}}
# {{sw-adj form of|wa|ake}}

----

==Torres Strait Creole==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ulk|tcs}} ''[[wakey]]''.

===Noun===
{{head|tcs|noun}}

# (''eastern dialect'') [[upper leg]]

====Synonyms====
* [[dokap]] (''western dialect'')

[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]

[[br:wake]]
[[cs:wake]]
[[cy:wake]]
[[et:wake]]
[[es:wake]]
[[eu:wake]]
[[fa:wake]]
[[fr:wake]]
[[gl:wake]]
[[ko:wake]]
[[hy:wake]]
[[hr:wake]]
[[io:wake]]
[[id:wake]]
[[it:wake]]
[[kn:wake]]
[[ku:wake]]
[[lo:wake]]
[[li:wake]]
[[hu:wake]]
[[mg:wake]]
[[ml:wake]]
[[my:wake]]
[[nl:wake]]
[[pl:wake]]
[[ru:wake]]
[[sm:wake]]
[[simple:wake]]
[[fi:wake]]
[[sv:wake]]
[[tl:wake]]
[[ta:wake]]
[[te:wake]]
[[th:wake]]
[[chr:wake]]
[[uk:wake]]
[[vi:wake]]
[[wa:wake]]
[[zh:wake]]