==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[Wallyworld]]

===Etymology===
Derived from the name of a fictional [[theme park]] patterned after [[Disneyland]] in the 1983 movie ''[[w:National Lampoon's Vacation|National Lampoon's Vacation]]''.

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|head=[[Wally]] [[world|World]]}}

# {{label|en|slang|pejorative}} {{w|Wal-Mart}}
#* '''2002''', R. D. McManes, "i buried my pet rock", ''We Ain't in Kansas No More'', page 29
#*: I thought I could replace him / so went down to a local '''wally world''' / and the salesman says / hey mister / what's a pet rock / and my heart grew cold / Lord / what's this world / coming to.
#* '''2002''', Shelby Lewis, ''Simply Marvelous'', page 83
#*: "'''Wally World'''?" He felt like he was playing a new board game and was just getting the hang of the rules. “Around here,” Daisy said, “Wal-Mart is often called '''Wally World'''.
#* '''2004''', Bob Wyatt. ''Trout Hunting: The Pursuit of Happiness'', page 172
#*: I had a nicely appointed (realtors' jargon for '''Wally World''' baroque) mobile home, a sort of plush culvert on wheels, and a new dog.
#* '''2004''', Shelby Lewis, ''Simply Wild'', page 238
#*: "Her daughter was reported as saying Kandi ought to be used to '''Wally World''' by now.” “Guess so,” Daisy said, her manner thoughtful.
#* '''2007''', Toni White, ''Ridge Street Home'', page 36
#*: Over in the corner there was a raised platform, with a roll of background screens behind it, kind of like at the '''Wally World''' stores.
#* '''2007''', L. W. Fugett, ''Murder in the Bluegrass'', page 3
#*: The man obviously had an aversion to '''Wally World''': receiving stolen property in '73, […]; receiving stolen property in '78; […]; and grand theft […].
# A fictional or hypothetical large [[theme park]].
#* '''1996''', ''Field & Stream'', Volume 101, Issues 7-12, page 17:
#*: The Tennessee Valley Authority's scheme to turn the Land Between the Lakes into '''Wally World''' has been stopped.
#* '''1996''', Michael Roney, Michael Utvich, ''The Guerrilla Guide to High-tech Trade Shows'', page 203:
#*: Forget Disney, Universal, and '''Wally World'''. Vegas was there before them all — the ultimate adult theme park.
#* '''2004''', Debra Kandelaars, ''Postcards: A Few of Our Favorites'', page vii:
#*: South Australia is not for the flashy, wham-bam <nowiki>'</nowiki>'''Wallyworld'''<nowiki>'</nowiki> tourist, rather it's a vast tapestry of many colours and moods.
#* '''2010''', Lee Silber, ''Time Management for the Creative Person'', page 34:
#*: Obviously he [Clark Griswold] is missing the point, but at least he made it to the canyon and, eventually, '''Wally World'''.
#* '''2010''', J. L. Bourne, ''Beyond Exile: Day by Day Armageddon'', page 193:
#*: Using the same technique I had used months before I should be able to get this old battle horse running all the way to '''Wally World'''.
#* '''2011''', John Sellers, ''The Old Man and the Swamp'', page 59:
#*: I felt like Clark Griswold arriving at '''Wally World''', only to find that it's closed for repairs.
#* '''2012''', Maureen F. McHugh, "After the Apocalypse", in Gardner Dozois, ed., ''The Year's Best Science Fiction: Twenty-Ninth Annual Collection'', page 227:
#*: “How far to '''Wallyworld'''?” Franny giggles.