{{see|wān|wán|wǎn|wàn}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[wann]]'' (dark)

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒn|-ɒn]]

===Adjective===
'''wan'''

# Pale, sickly-looking.
# Dim, faint.
#: ''A '''wan''' light from a single bulb''
# Bland, uninterested.
#: ''A '''wan''' expression''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Pale, sickly-looking}}
*Finnish: [[kelmeä]], [[kalmea]], [[riutunut]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Dim, faint}}
*Finnish: [[kelmeä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Bland, uninterested}}
*Finnish: [[vaisu]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''wan'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of four tones, [[wān]], [[wán]], [[wǎn]], or [[wàn]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Old English==

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/wɑn/}}

===Verb===
'''wan'''

# Alternative spelling of ''[[wann]]'' (third-person preterite singular of ''[[winnan]]'').
#:''Grendel wan hwile wið Hroþgar.''  Grendel long fought against Hrothgar.  (''Beowulf'' ll. 151-2)

----

==Scots==

===Cardinal number===
'''wan'''

# {{context|West Central Scots|lang=sco}} [[one]].

----

==Tok Pisin==

===Etymology===
English ''one''

===Noun===
'''wan'''

# The number [[one]].

===Cardinal number===
'''wan'''

# One. Used with units of measurement and in times: ''wan aua'', ''wan klok''. See also [[wanpela]].

[[fa:wan]]
[[fr:wan]]
[[io:wan]]
[[id:wan]]
[[ku:wan]]
[[ja:wan]]
[[pl:wan]]
[[ru:wan]]
[[fi:wan]]
[[vi:wan]]
[[zh:wan]]
'''wan'''
'''New English Term'''
'''noun'''
meaning: term used to describe a person in a vulgar, yet funny way 2. someone you dislike can be called a wan or more used term, freiken wan 3. when someone does something idiotic, it is appropriate to call him a wan or freiken wan. example: your such a freiken wan!