==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=war (disambiguation)|war}}

{{rank|fell|different|care|389|war|short|able|five}}

===Alternative spellings===
* [[warre]] {{italbrac|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
Late {{etyl|ang}} {{term|werre}}, {{term|wyrre}} from {{etyl|ONF.}} {{term|werre}} (cf {{etyl|fro}} {{term|guerre}}) of {{etyl|gem}} origin, from {{etyl|frk}} *{{term||werra}} "confusion, strife" from {{proto|Germanic|werso|mixture, mix-up, confusion|lang=}} from {{proto|Indo-European|werza-|mixture, confusion}}. Akin to {{etyl|goh|-}} ''[[werra]]'' "confusion, strife, quarrel" ({{etyl|deu|-}} ''[[verwirren#German|verwirren]]'' "to confuse"), {{etyl|osx|-}} ''[[werran#Old Saxon|werran]]'' "to confuse, perplex", {{etyl|nld|-}} ''[[war#Dutch|war]]'' "confusion", {{etyl|ang|-}} {{term|wyrsa||lang=}}, {{term|wiersa||lang=}} "worse", {{etyl|non|-}} ''[[verri]]'' "worse" (originally "confounded, mixed up").
{{etyl|la|en}} {{term|versus||against, turned|lang=la}}, past participle of {{term|vertere||turn, change, overthrow, destroy|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/woʊr/|/wɔː(r)/}}, {{SAMPA|/wO:(r)/}}
* {{audio|en-us-war.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|En-uk-war.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{rhymes|ɔː(r)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|mul=war (card game)}}
{{en-noun}}

# A conflict involving the organized use of arms and physical force between countries or other large-scale armed groups. The warring parties hold territory, which they can win or lose; and each has a leading person or organization which can surrender, or collapse, thus ending the war.
# By extension, any conflict, or anything resembling a conflict.
# {{context|rhetorical}} A campaign against something. E.g., the ''war on drugs'' is a campaign against the use of narcotic drugs; the ''war on terror'' is a campaign against terrorist crime.
# {{context|by analogy|uncountable}} A particular [[card game]] for two [[player]]s.

====Antonyms====
* [[peace]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from "war"}}
* [[all's fair in love and war]]
* [[civil war]]
* [[cold war]]
* [[declaration of war]]
* [[go to war]]
* [[perpetual war]]
* [[prisoner of war]], [[P.O.W.]] or [[POW]]
* [[state of war]]
* [[undeclared war]]
* [[wage war]]
* [[war between the sexes]], etc. Jocular.
* [[war bonnet]]
* [[war bride]]
* [[war chest]]
* [[war child]]
* [[war crime]]
* [[war criminal]]
* [[war cry]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[war game]]
* [[war paint]] or [[warpaint]]
* [[war party]]
* [[war room]]
* [[war torn]]
* [[war zone]]
* [[warfare]]
* [[warhead]]
* [[warlord]]
* [[warmonger]]
* [[warpath]]
* [[warring]]
* [[warrior]]
* [[wartime]]
* [[world war]]
* [[dynastic war]]
* [[World War One]]
* [[World War Two]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|conflict involving organized use of arms}}
* [[Alabama]]: [[ittilbachoba]]
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|luftë|f|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[حرب]]}} (ḥarb) {{m}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|պատերազմ|tr=paterazm}}
* Belarusian: [[вайна]] {{f}}
* Bosnian: {{t-|bs|rat|m}}
* [[Breton]]: [[brezel]] {{m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|война|f|tr=vojna}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[guerra]] {{f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|戰爭|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|战争|tr=zhànzhēng|sc=Hani}}
* [[Chiricahua]]: [[dishbá]] ''(I start off to war)''
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|rat|m}}
* Czech: [[válka]] {{f}}, [[vojna]] {{f}} (archaic, arms),  {{t-|cs|boj|m}} (fight)
* Danish: {{t+|da|krig|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|oorlog|m}}, {{t+|nl|krijg|c}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|milito|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|sõda}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sota}}
* French: {{t+|fr|guerre|f}}
* Georgian: [[ომი]] (omi)
* German: {{t+|de|Krieg|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πόλεμος|m|tr=pólemos}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[ñorairõ]]
* Hebrew: [[מלחמה|מִלְחָמָה]] (milkhama) {{f}}
* Hindi: [[युद्ध]] (yuddh) {{m}}, [[जंग]] (ja.ng) {{f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|háború}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|stríð|n}}, {{t+|is|styrjöld|f}}
* [[Ido]]: [[milito]]
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|perang|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[guerra]], [[bello]]
* Irish: {{t+|ga|cogadh|m|xs=Irish}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|guerra|f}}
* Japanese: [[戦争]] ([[せんそう]], sensō), [[戦]] ([[いくさ]], ikusa)
* [[Jèrriais]]: [[dgèrre]] {{f}}
* [[Khmer]]: {{Khmr|[[ចំបាំង]]}} (jombəng), {{Khmr|[[សង្គ្រាម]]}} (songkrīəm)
* Korean: [[전쟁]] ([[戰爭]], jeonjaeng)
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|ceng|f}}, {{t+|ku|şerr|m}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|bellum|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: [[karš]] {{m}} (sometimes [[kaŗš]])
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|karas|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|војна|f|tr=vójna}}
* Malay: [[perang]], [[peperangan]]
* Maltese: [[gwerra]] {{f}}
* {{trreq|Maori}}
* [[Marathi]]: {{t|mr|युद्ध |n|sc=Deva|xs=Marathi}}
* [[Nahuatl]]: [[yaoyotl]]
* [[Northern Sami]]: [[soahti]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|krig|m}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t-|ang|wig|n|alt=wīġ|xs=Old English}}
* [[Pashto]]: {{fa-Arab|[[جنگ]]}} (jang)
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[جنگ]]}} (jang)
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wojna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guerra|f}}
* Romanian: [[război]] {{n}}, [[răzbel]] {{n}} ''(archaic)''
* Russian: {{t+|ru|война|f|tr=vojná}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[cogadh]] {{m}}
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[рат]] {{m}}
*: Roman: [[rat]] {{m}}
* [[Sicilian]]: {{t+|scn|guerra|f|xs=Sicilian}}
* [[Sindhi]]: {{sd-Arab|[[جَنگِ]]}} (jangi) {{f}}
* {{trreq|Sinhalese}}
* Slovak: {{t-|sk|vojna|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vojna|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|guerra|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|vita|xs=Swahili}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|krig|n}}
* [[Tagalog]]: [[gera]], [[gyera]], [[digmaan]]
* [[Tamil]]: [[போர்]] (pōr)
* Thai: {{Thai|[[สงคราม]]}} (sŏng-kraam)
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[marana]]
* Turkish: [[savaş]], [[muharebe]] (''obsolete''), [[harp]] (''obsolete''), [[cenk]] (''obsolete'')
* Urdu: {{ur-Arab|[[یدھ]]}} (yuddh) {{m}}, {{ur-Arab|[[جنگ]]}} (ja.ng) {{f}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|chiến tranh|xs=Vietnamese}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|rhyfel|m|f|xs=Welsh}}
* [[West Frisian]]: [[oarloch]], [[kriich]]
* Yiddish: [[מלחמה]] (milkhome) {{f}}, [[קריג]] (krig) {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|rhetorical: campaign against something}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t+|ca|guerra|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|鬥爭|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|斗争|tr=dòuzhēng|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|挑戰|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|挑战|tr=tiǎozhàn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|boj|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sota}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μάχη|f}}, {{t+|el|αγώνας|m}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|војна|f|tr=vójna}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|walka|f}},  {{t+|pl|wojna|f}}, {{t|pl|bój|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guerra|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|guerra|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|card game}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|válka|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kina}}
* German: {{t+|de|Krieg|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Krieg|m}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t-|mk|војна|f|tr=vójna}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wojna|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|guerra|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Swahili}}: [[vita]] ''(noun 8)''
* {{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[యుద్ధం]] (yuddhaM) (1,3); [[అంతర్యుద్ధం]] (aMtaryuddhaM) (2)
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* [[battle]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|war|r|ed}}

# To [[engage]] in [[conflict]] with someone or something
#: ''His emotions '''war''' with his intellect, making him conflicted.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to engage in conflict}}
* [[Catalan]]: {{t|ca|guerrejar}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sotia}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|војува|tr=vójuva}},  {{t|mk|завојува|tr=zavójuva}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|walczyć}}, {{t+|pl|prowadzić}} [[wojna|wojnę]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|воевать|tr=vojevát'}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|guerrear}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|çelişmek}},  {{t|tr|çatışmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|arw}}
* [[raw#English|raw]]
* [[Rwa#English|Rwa]], [[RWA#English|RWA]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Breton==

===Preposition===
{{preposition|br}}

# [[on]], [[over]], ...
#: '''''war''' ar [[sizhun]]'' – during the week

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{infl|nl|noun|g=c|plural|warren}}

# [[confusion]], [[disarray]]
# a kind of contraption for luring and catching fish (e.g. by tangling them up in nets)

====Derived terms====
* [[in de war brengen]]
* [[verwarren]]
* [[ontwarren]]
* [[warrig]]
* [[warhoofd]]
* [[warboel]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/vaːɐ̯/|lang=de}}
* {{audio|De-war.ogg|audio}}

===Verb===
'''war'''

# {{de-verb form of|sein|1|s|v}}
#* '''1788''': Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, ''Egmont''
#*: Ich hätte ihn heiraten können, und glaube, ich [http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/etext00/8gmnt10.txt war] nie in ihn verliebt.
#*:: I could have married him; yet I believe I [http://www.gutenberg.org/files/1945/1945.txt was] never really in love with him.
# {{de-verb form of|sein|3|s|v}}
#* '''1788''': Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, ''Egmont''
#*: Gott tröst' ihn! Das [http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/etext00/8gmnt10.txt war] ein Herr!
#*:: God bless him! He [http://www.gutenberg.org/files/1945/1945.txt was] a king indeed!

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
{{infl|ku|noun}}

# [[place]]

----

==Old High German==

===Adjective===
'''wār'''

# [[true]]

[[Category:French derivations]]
[[Category:Old High German adjectives]]

----

==Tocharian B==

===Noun===
{{infl|txb|noun}}

# [[water]]

[[ang:war]]
[[ar:war]]
[[br:war]]
[[ca:war]]
[[cs:war]]
[[de:war]]
[[et:war]]
[[el:war]]
[[es:war]]
[[fa:war]]
[[fr:war]]
[[gl:war]]
[[ko:war]]
[[hy:war]]
[[io:war]]
[[id:war]]
[[it:war]]
[[kn:war]]
[[kk:war]]
[[sw:war]]
[[ku:war]]
[[lo:war]]
[[lv:war]]
[[lt:war]]
[[hu:war]]
[[ml:war]]
[[nl:war]]
[[ja:war]]
[[no:war]]
[[oc:war]]
[[pl:war]]
[[pt:war]]
[[ru:war]]
[[simple:war]]
[[sr:war]]
[[fi:war]]
[[sv:war]]
[[ta:war]]
[[te:war]]
[[th:war]]
[[tr:war]]
[[uk:war]]
[[vi:war]]
[[wo:war]]
[[zh:war]]