{{also|waš|wäs}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|Was (disambiguation)}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|was|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|wæs|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*was}}, (compare Scots {{term|was|lang=sco}}, Dutch {{term|was|lang=nl}}, Low German {{term|was|lang=nds}}, German {{term|war|lang=de}}, Swedish {{term|var|lang=sv}}), from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*h₂wes-||to reside}}. The paradigm of "to be" has been since the time of Proto-Germanic a synthesis of three originally distinct verb stems. The infinitive form {{term|be|lang=en}} is from Proto-Indo-European {{m|ine-pro|*bʰew-||to become}}. The words {{term|is|lang=en}} and {{term|are|lang=en}} are both derived from Proto-Indo-European {{m|ine-pro|*h₁es-||to be}}. Lastly, the past forms starting with ''w-'' such as ''was'' and {{term|were|lang=en}} are from Proto-Indo-European {{m|ine-pro|*h₂wes-||to reside}}.

===Pronunciation===
'''stressed'''
* {{audio|En-us-was.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|wŏz}}, {{IPA|/wɒz/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|wŭz}}, {{IPA|/wʌz/|lang=en}}, {{IPA|/wɑz/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɒz|lang=en}}
'''unstressed'''
* {{enPR|wəz}}, {{IPA|/wəz/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-was-unstressed.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}} (in the phrase "I was there")

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{form of|First-person singular simple past tense indicative|be|lang=en}}.
# {{form of|Third-person singular simple past tense indicative|be|lang=en}}.
# {{context|proscribed|dialect|lang=en}} {{form of|Second-person singular simple past tense indicative|be|lang=en}}.
#* '''1913''', Arthur Conan Doyle, ''The Poison Belt''
#*: "'''Was''' you outside the Bank of England, sir?"
# {{context|colloquial|lang=en}} {{form of|Second person plural simple past tense|be|lang=en}}
#* '''2001''', Darrel Rachel, ''The Magnolias Still Bloom'' (page 104)
#*: “What happened here, Hadley?” the chief asked. “We '''was''' robbed, damn it, we was robbed.”

====Derived terms====
* {{l/en|wasband}}
* {{l/en|wasbian}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[am]]
* [[are]]
* [[is]]
* [[art]]
* [[be]]
* [[being]]
* [[been]]
{{mid2}}
* [[beest]]
* [[wast]]
* [[were]]
* [[wert]]
* [[woz]]
* [[wuz]]
{{bottom}}

===Statistics===
* {{rank|in|I|that|8|was|he|his|with}}

===Anagrams===
* [[ASW#English|ASW]]
* [[saw#English|saw]], [[SAW#English|SAW]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English auxiliary verb forms]]
[[Category:English irregular first-person singular forms]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English irregular third-person singular forms]]
[[Category:English verb simple past forms]]
[[Category:English verb forms using redundant wikisyntax]]

----

==Afrikaans==

===Noun===
{{af-noun|-}}

# [[wax]]

===Verb===
{{head|af|verb form}}

# Past tense of '''[[wees]]'''.

===Verb===
{{af-verb|wassende}}

# to [[wash]]

----

==Dutch==
{{wikipedia|lang=nl}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʋɑs/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-was.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}
* {{rhymes|ɑs|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===
Cognate with English {{term|wash|lang=en}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-en|wasje}}

# [[laundry]], clothes that need to be washed, or just have been washed.

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|wassen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|wassen}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|odt|nl}} {{m|odt|*was}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|nl}} {{m|gem-pro|*wahsą}}. Cognate with German {{term|Wachs|lang=de}}, English {{term|wax|lang=en}}, Danish {{term|voks|lang=da}}, Swedish {{term|vax|lang=sv}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|g2=n|-en|-}}

# [[wax]]
# [[growth]]

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|wassen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|wassen}}

====Derived terms====
* [[bijenwas]]
* [[gewas]] {{g2|n}}
* [[uitwas]]
* [[uit de kluiten gewassen]]

===Etymology 3===
Cognate with English {{term|was|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|n=sg|t=past|m=ind|zijn}}
# {{nl-verb form of|n=sg|t=past|m=ind|wezen}}

===Anagrams===
* [[swa#Dutch|swa]]

----

==German==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|de|wat}} {{qualifier|colloquial in western and parts of northern Germany}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|goh|de}} {{term|waz|(h)waz|lang=goh}}, originally *{{term||(h)wat}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|de}} {{m|gem-pro|*hwat}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|de}} {{m|ine-pro|*kʷos}}, {{m|ine-pro|*kʷod}}, compare Dutch {{term|wat|lang=nl}}, English {{term|what|lang=en}}, Danish {{term|hvad|lang=da}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/vas/|lang=de}}
* {{audio|DE-was.ogg|audio|lang=de}}
* {{audio|BY-was.ogg|Audio (Bavarian)|lang=de}}
* {{rhymes|as|lang=de}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|de|pronoun|cat2=interrogative pronouns|cat3=relative pronouns}}

# {{context|interrogative|lang=de}} [[what]]
#: '''''Was''' machst du heute?''
#:: What are you doing today?
# {{context|relative|lang=de}} [[which]] (referring to the entire preceding clause)
#: ''Sie tanzte gut, '''was''' er bewunderte.''
#:: She was a good dancer, which he admired.
# {{context|relative|lang=de}} [[that]], [[which]] (referring to {{term|das|lang=de}}, {{term|alles|lang=de}}, {{term|etwas|lang=de}}, {{term|nichts|lang=de}}, and neuter substantival adjectives)
#: ''Das ist alles, '''was''' ich will.''
#:: That's all that I want.
#: ''Das ist das Beste, '''was''' mir passieren konnte.''
#:: That's the best that could have happened to me.
# {{context|relative|colloquial|lang=de}} [[that]], [[which]] (referring to neuter singular nouns, instead of standard {{term|das|lang=de}})
#: ''Siehst du das weiße Haus, '''was''' renoviert wird?''
#:: Do you see that white house, which is being renovated?
# {{context|indefinite|colloquial|lang=de}} [[something]], [[anything]] (instead of standard {{term|etwas|lang=de}})
#: ''Ich hab '''was''' gefunden.''
#:: I've found something.

====Usage notes====
* ''Was'' is invariable. The genitive case, and the dative case if necessary for clearness, can be paraphrased by means of {{term|welcher|lang=de}} {{term|Sache|lang=de}} (“what thing”). [[possessive|Possessive]] genitives are more commonly paraphrased with {{term|wovon||of what|lang=de}}.
* The colloquial ''was'' meaning "something" can only be the first word in a sentence if followed by an adjective: ''Was Wichtiges fehlt noch.'' – "Something important is missing." Otherwise the full form ''etwas'' must be used: ''Etwas fehlt noch.'' – "Something is missing." The reason for this is that the latter sentence could be misinterpreted as a question if ''was'' were used.
* ''Was'' is not commonly used with prepositions. It is replaced with pronominal adverbs containing {{term|wo-|lang=de}}. Hence: '''''Wo'''mit hast du das gemacht?'' – "With what did you do that?" Colloquially, this rule is occasionally disregarded: ''Mit was hast du das gemacht?''.

====Derived terms====
* [[was für]]

===Adverb===
{{head|de|adverb}}

# {{context|colloquial|lang=de}} [[a little]], [[somewhat]]
#: ''Ich komm' '''was''' später.''
#:: I'll arrive a little later.

----

==Gothic==

===Romanization===
{{got-rom}}

# {{got-romanization of|𐍅𐌰𐍃}}

----

==Gros Ventre==

===Noun===
{{head|ats|noun}}

# [[bear]]

----

==Low German==

===Verb===
{{head|nds|verb form}}

# {{inflection of|węsen||1|s|simple past|indc|lang=nds-de}}
# {{inflection of|węsen||3|s|simple past|indc|lang=nds-de}}
# [[apocope|apocopated]] form of {{term|lang=nds-de|wasse||wash}}, {{inflection of|wassen||2|s|impr|lang=nds-de}} {{qualifier|mainly used in the Netherlands, equivalent to other dialects' wasche/waske}}
# [[apocope|apocopated]] form of {{term|lang=nds-de|wasse||wax}}, {{inflection of|wassen||2|s|impr|lang=nds-de}}
# [[apocope|apocopated]] form of {{term|lang=nds-de|wasse||grow}}, {{inflection of|wassen||2|s|impr|lang=nds-de}}

====Usage notes====
Notes on the verb ''węsen'' (to be): In recent times (~1800) the old [[subjunctive mood|subjunctive]] ''wer'' is used in place of ''was'' by many speakers. This might be the old subjunctive which is now used as a [[preterite]] or a reduction of ''weren'', which is the preterite plural indicative of the verb. It might also be an imitation of the High German cognate ''war''. Many smaller dialectal clusters do this, but no dialect does it. That means: even though there are many regions within e.g. Lower Saxony that use ''wer'' for ''was'', maybe even the majority, there is no straight connection between them, i.e. which form is used can depend on preference, speaker and specific region. Due to this "one town this way, one town that way"-nature of the situation no form can be named "standard" for a greater dialect, such as Low Saxon.

----

==Lower Sorbian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[was]|lang=dsb}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|dsb|pronoun form}}

# {{inflection of|wy||gen|lang=dsb}}
# {{inflection of|wy||acc|lang=dsb}}
# {{inflection of|wy||loc|lang=dsb}}

----

==Mayangna==

===Noun===
{{head|yan|noun}}

# [[water]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[vas̪]|lang=pl}}

===Pronoun===
{{head|pl|pronoun form}}

# Genitive of '''[[wy#Polish|wy]]'''.
# Accusative of '''[[wy#Polish|wy]]'''.
# Locative of '''[[wy#Polish|wy]]'''.

----

==Scots==

===Noun===
{{head|sco|plural}}

# {{plural of|wa|lang=sco}}

----

==Tok Pisin==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|en|tpi}} {{term|watch|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{head|tpi|verb}}

# [[angel]]; any [[supernatural]] [[creature]] in [[heaven]] according to [[Christian]] [[theology]]
#* {{tpi-cite-bible|Gen|3|24|God i rausim pinis man na meri, na em i makim ol strongpela ensel bilong sanap na '''was''' i stap long hap sankamap bilong gaden Iden. Na tu em i putim wanpela bainat i gat paia i lait long en na i save tanim tanim long olgeta hap. Oltaim ol dispela ensel wantaim dispela bainat i save '''was''' i stap, nogut wanpela man i go klostu long dispela diwai bilong givim laip.}}

{{LDL|tpi}}

[[ang:was]]
[[ast:was]]
[[az:was]]
[[br:was]]
[[cs:was]]
[[da:was]]
[[de:was]]
[[et:was]]
[[el:was]]
[[es:was]]
[[eu:was]]
[[fa:was]]
[[fr:was]]
[[ko:was]]
[[hy:was]]
[[hr:was]]
[[io:was]]
[[id:was]]
[[it:was]]
[[ka:was]]
[[kk:was]]
[[ku:was]]
[[la:was]]
[[lv:was]]
[[li:was]]
[[hu:was]]
[[mg:was]]
[[ml:was]]
[[my:was]]
[[fj:was]]
[[nl:was]]
[[ja:was]]
[[no:was]]
[[pa:was]]
[[nds:was]]
[[pl:was]]
[[pt:was]]
[[ru:was]]
[[simple:was]]
[[fi:was]]
[[sv:was]]
[[tl:was]]
[[ta:was]]
[[te:was]]
[[th:was]]
[[chr:was]]
[[tr:was]]
[[uk:was]]
[[vi:was]]
[[zh:was]]