{{wikipedia|dab=Wash}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|ang}} {{term|wæscan||lang=ang}} (cognate with Dutch {{term|wassen||lang=nl}} and German {{term|waschen||lang=de}})

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/wɒʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/wQS/}}
** {{audio|En-uk-to wash.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/wɑʃ/}}, {{SAMPA|/wAS/}}
** {{audio|en-us-wash.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{a|STL}} {{IPA|[wɔɹʃ]}}
* {{rhymes|ɒʃ}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|wash|es}}

# To clean with [[water]].
# To move by the force of water in motion (as in ''the flood washed away houses'').
# {{mining}} To separate valuable material (such as gold) from worthless material by the action of flowing water.
# (intransitive) To clean oneself with water.
# (intransitive) To be eroded or carried away by the action of water.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from wash (verb)}}
* [[dishwasher]]
* [[jetwash]]
* [[wash away]]
* [[wash down]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[washer]]
* [[wash out]]
* [[wash over]]
* [[wash up]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to clean with water}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|lan|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|غسل|tr=ghasala}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|լվալ|tr=lval}}, {{t-|hy|լվանալ|tr=lvanal}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|мия|tr=mija}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[rentar]], {{t|ca|llavar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t-|cmn|洗|tr=xǐ|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|洗滌|sc=Hani}}, {{t-|cmn|洗涤|tr=xǐdí|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|沖洗|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|冲洗|tr=chōngxǐ|sc=Hani}}
* [[Classical Nahuatl]]: [[paca|pāca]]
* [[Crimean Tatar]]: [[yuvmaq]]
* Croatian: [[umiti]]
* Czech: [[mýt]] (''dishes''), [[prát]] (''laundry'')
* Danish: {{t-|da|vaske}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wassen}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|lavi|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pestä}}, {{t+|fi|tiskata}}, {{t+|fi|pyykätä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|laver}}
* [[Galician]]: {{t+|gl|lavar|xs=Galician}}
* German: {{t+|de|waschen}}, {{t+|de|spülen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|πλένω}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|רחץ|tr=rakháts}}, {{t|he|שטף|tr=shatáf}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|धोना|xs=Hindi}},  {{t|hi|धोना|tr=dhonā|sc=Deva}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|mos}}, {{t|hu|kimos}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|þvo}}
* [[Ido]]: {{t+|io|lavar|xs=Ido}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|nigh|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lavare}}
* Japanese: [[洗う]] (あらう, arau),  {{t|ja|洗う|tr=あらう, arau|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|세차|tr=secha|sc=Kore}}
* Kurdish:
*: [[Kurmanji]]: {{t+|ku|şûştin}} (شووشتن)
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|شوشتن|tr=şuştin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Latin: {{t-|la|lavo}}
* Norwegian: [[tvette]], [[vaske]]
* Old English: [[þwēan]]
* [[Old High German]]: [[dwahan]]
* Old Norse: [[þvó]], [[þvætta]]
* Persian: {{t+|fa|شستن|tr=shostan|xs=Persian}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|myć}}, {{qualifier|of clothes}} {{t+|pl|prać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|lavar}}
* [[Rohingya]]: [[dúo]]
* [[Romani]]: [[thovel]]
* Romanian: a [[spăla]]
* [[Romansch]]: {{t-|rm|lavar|xs=Romansch}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мыть|tr=myt’}}, {{qualifier|of clothes}} {{t|ru|стирать|tr=stirát’}},  {{t|ru|помыть|tr=pomýt'|sc=Cyrl}},  {{t|ru|постирать|tr=postirát'|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[nigh#Irish|nigh]]
* [[Sicilian]]: {{t+|scn|lavari|xs=Sicilian}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|lavar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tvätta}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|కడుగు}} (kaDugu) ''[[non-clothing]]'', {{t|te|ఉతుకు}} (utuku) ''[[clothes]]''
* Thai: {{t|th|ซัก|tr=sák|sc=Thai}},  {{qualifier|of clothes}} {{t|th|ล้าง|tr=láang|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yıkamak}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|мити|tr=mýty|xs=Ukrainian}}, {{qualifier|of clothes}} {{t-|uk|прати|tr=práty|xs=Ukrainian}}
* Urdu: {{t-|ur|دھونا|tr=dhona|xs=Urdu}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|rửa}},  {{t|vi|giặt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move by the force of water in motion}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huuhtoa}}
* German: [[wegspülen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|elmos}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to separate valuable material}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huuhtoa}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to clean oneself}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|լվացվել|tr=lvac'vel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|peseytyä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|se laver}}
* German: {{t|de|sich waschen}}
* Greek: [[πλένομαι]]
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|mosakszik}}, {{t|hu|megmosakszik}}
* Irish: {{t-|ga|nigh|xs=Irish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|lavarsi}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|洗面する|tr=senmen suru}}
* Kurdish:
*: Sorani: {{t|ku|خۆ شوشتن|tr=kho shoshtin|sc=ku-Arab}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|خودشویی|tr=xodšōyi|xs=Persian}}
* [[Telugu]]: {{t|te|కడుక్కొను}} (kaDukkonu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to be eroded}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huuhtoutua}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|فرسودن|tr=farsōdan|xs=Persian}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|washes}}

# The process or an instance of washing or being washed by water or other liquid.
# A liquid used for washing.
# The quantity of clothes washed at a time.
# The sound of breaking of the seas, e.g., on the shore.
# The [[wake]] of a moving ship.
# The [[turbulence]] left in the air by a moving airplane.
# A [[lotion]] or other liquid with medicinal or [[hygienic]] properties.
# Ground washed away to the sea or a river.
# A shallow body of water.
# In arid and semi-arid regions, the normally dry bed of an intermittent or ephemeral stream; an [[arroyo]]; [[wadi]]
#* '''1997''', Stanley Desmond Smith, et al. Physiological Ecology of North American Desert Plants, ''Nature''
#*: In some desert-'''wash''' systems (which have been termed “xero-riparian”)
#* '''1999''', Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum, ''A Natural History of the Sonoran Desert''
#*: ''...''though the '''wash''' may carry surface water for only a few hours a year.
#* '''2005''', Le Hayes, ''Pilgrims in the Desert: The Early History of the East Mojave Desert''
#*: Rock Spring '''Wash''' continues a short distance then joins Watson '''Wash'''. Water from Rock Spring comes out of the boulder strewn '''wash''' and disappears into the sand
# A lack of [[progress]] or [[regress]]; no [[change]]
#: ''His first week at the new job was a '''wash''', since he spent so much time learning the system instead of using it.''

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|terms derived from wash (noun)}}
* [[come out in the wash]]
* [[car wash]]
* [[mouthwash]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[wash and brushup]]
* [[wash sale]]
* [[whitewash]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|process or an instance of washing or being washed by water}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pesu}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|clothes washed at a time}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|pyykki}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sound of breaking seas}}
* Finnish: ([[aalto|aaltojen]]) [[kohina]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|wake of a ship}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|vanavesi}}, {{t-|fi|peräaalto}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|turbulence left by airplane}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|jättöpyörre}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lotion}}
* Finnish: -[[vesi]] (e.g. [[suuvesi]])
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|ground washed away to the sea or a river}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|huuhtouma}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|shallow body of water}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|matalikko}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|the normally dry bed of an intermittent or ephemeral stream - a ''wadi''}}
* French: [[oeud]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|lack of progress}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|ahsw}}
* [[haws#English|haws]]
* [[shaw#English|shaw]], [[Shaw#English|Shaw]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Liquids]]

[[ar:wash]]
[[de:wash]]
[[es:wash]]
[[fa:wash]]
[[fr:wash]]
[[ko:wash]]
[[hr:wash]]
[[io:wash]]
[[id:wash]]
[[it:wash]]
[[kn:wash]]
[[kk:wash]]
[[lo:wash]]
[[li:wash]]
[[hu:wash]]
[[ml:wash]]
[[nl:wash]]
[[ja:wash]]
[[oc:wash]]
[[pl:wash]]
[[pt:wash]]
[[simple:wash]]
[[fi:wash]]
[[sv:wash]]
[[ta:wash]]
[[te:wash]]
[[th:wash]]
[[tr:wash]]
[[uk:wash]]
[[vi:wash]]
[[zh:wash]]