==English==
{{was wotd|2015|December|31}}
{{wikipedia|Watchnight}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[Watch Night]]
* [[watch-night]]
* [[watchnight]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|Christianity|historical|lang=en}} A monthly religious service participated in by [[Methodist]]s which extended past [[midnight]].
#* {{quote-journal|author=John Reacher|title=The End of the Year, and its Watchnight|journal=The Christian Miscellany, and Family Visiter. For the Year 1861|location=London|publisher=Published by John Mason, 27, City-Road; sold at 66, {{w|Paternoster-Row}}|month=December|year=1861|volume=VII, 2nd series|page=370|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=LTQEAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA370|oclc=633552483|passage=We offer no apology for the Methodist '''watchnight''' service. It needs none. In the first days of Methodism, indeed, this service was misrepresented and reviled by those who sought occasion against us; {{...}} The Wesleyan '''watchnight''' dates from the earliest times of the United Societies. We have this account of its origin by [William] Myles, in his "Chronological History:"—"The custom was begun at Kingswood by the colliers there, who, before their conversion, used to spend every Saturday-night at the ale-house. After they were taught better, they spent that night in prayer. Mr. Wesley, hearing of it, ordered it first to be once a month, at the full of the moon; then once a quarter, and recommended it to all his Societies."}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Frank Baker|title=From Wesley to Asbury: Studies in Early American Methodism|location=Durham, N.C.|publisher={{w|Duke University Press}}|year=1976|page=|isbn=978-0-8223-0359-6|passage=[Joseph] Pilmore conducted the first '''watchnight''' in Virginia, lasting from 8:00 p.m. until midnight, on Sunday, April 25, 1773. Like the love-feast, the '''watchnight''' often formed one of the more public features of the quarterly meetings {{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book|author=John J. Dunphy|title=From Christmas to Twelfth Night in Southern Illinois|location=Charleston, S.C.|publisher=The History Press|year=2010|page=112|isbn=978-1-59629-913-9|passage=The practice actually began with the [[w:Moravian Church|Moravians]], a small Christian denomination, in Europe. Scholars believe that the first '''Watch Night''' service was held in 1733 on the estate of a German count. {{w|John Wesley}}, the founder of Methodism, incorporated the '''Watch Night''' service into his denomination, where it took root. These early '''Watch Night''' services were not New Year's Eve events, however. They were held once a month and on full moons. The first '''Watch Night''' service in the United States was held in 1770 at Old St. George's Church in Philadelphia.}}
# {{context|Christianity|lang=en}} A religious service involving a review of the year passed and preparation for the year ahead participated in by Methodists and members of other Christian [[denomination]]s which starts late on [[New Year's Eve]] and ends after midnight on [[New Year's Day]]; ''hence'', the night that begins on [[December]] 31 and ends on [[January]] 1.
#* {{quote-book|author=L[uke] Tyerman|title=The Life and Times of the Rev. John Wesley, M.A., Founder of the Methodists. [...] In Three Volumes|location=New York, N.Y.|publisher=[[w:Harper (publisher)|Harper & Brothers]]|year=1872|volume=I|page=333|pageurl=https://books.google.com/books?id=BI0ZAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA333|oclc=640072647|passage=This was the first '''watchnight''' meeting among the Methodist. The people met at half-past eight; the house was filled from end to end; and "we concluded the year," says Wesley, "wrestling with God in prayer, and praising Him for the wonderful work which He had already wrought upon the earth."}}
#* {{quote-book|title=Wesleyan Methodist Twentieth Century Celebration|location=London; Aylesbury|publisher={{w|Hazell, Watson and Viney}}|year=[1901]|section=cover title|oclc=11510571|passage=Wesleyan Methodist Twentieth Century Celebration: Order of '''Watchnight''' Service to be Held in Every Wesleyan-Methodist Place of Worship in Great Britain on the Night of Monday, 31st December, 1900, Being the Last Night of the Nineteenth Century}}
#* {{quote-news|title=Watch Night Services|work={{w|The New York Times}}|date=1 January 1901|page=2|passage=The first '''watch night''' services ever held in Grace Protestant Episcopal Church were but poorly attended, {{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book|author=R. Mark Liebenow|title=And Everyone Shall Praise: Resources for Multicultural Worship|location=Cleveland, Oh.|publisher=United Church Press|year=1999|page=77|isbn=978-0-8298-1318-0|passage='''Watchnight'''. December 31 This is a midnight service that summarizes the past year. In recent centuries, the Moravians and early Methodists have celebrated it as a vigil service focusing on newness, the spiritual life, and covenants.}}
# {{context|West African|lang=en}} A [[night watchman]].
#* {{quote-book|author=Isobel Ryan|title=Black Man's Palaver|location=London|publisher={{w|Jonathan Cape}}|year=1958|page=62|oclc=460038569|passage=Next morning a flustered '''watchnight''' waited for Bill. 'What is this t'ing?' he indignantly demanded. 'In the night I sit watching, then Madam come and pour a bucket of water on me. Next a t'ief-man come. I fight him but he too strong and he take my bicycle&nbsp;...{{nb...}}[']}}
#* {{quote-book|author=Niyi Oniororo|title=Persevere Dear Brother|edition=2nd|location=Ibadan, Nigeria|publisher=Printed at Ayo-olu Finery Press|year=1969|page=39|passage=He gave the '''watchnight''' a big sum of money to tell the court that he saw Ayo carrying those drugs into his room. He also induced the chemist to give evidence against Ayo that he was not buying those drugs for patients.}}

====Related terms====
* [[New Year's Eve]] {{qualifier|not identical to ''watch night''&nbsp;– New Year's Eve is the entire day before New Year's Day, whereas watch night is the night that begins at sundown on New Year's Eve and ends with sunrise on New Year's Day}}

===Anagrams===
* [[night watch#English|night watch]]

[[Category:West African English]]

[[et:watch night]]
[[ku:watch night]]