{{rfv|nonce?  Over one year in published sources?}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{suffix|wave|oid}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|s}}

# A person who believes (often [[fervently]]) that Wave Systems Corp. will be a financial success.

===Quotations===
* '''2007''', Danny Hakim, [http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/business/yourmoney/04wave.html "That Ship Will Come In, Right?"] ''New York Times'', The New York Times Co., March 4, 2007 ed.
*: The '''Wavoids''' say they believe that Wave’s moment has finally come — of course, they have always believed that Wave’s moment has finally come.
* '''2004''', Danny Hakim, [http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C00E2D7163EF932A1575BC0A9629C8B63 "For a Reformed Wavoid, The Play's the Thing,"] ''New York Times'', The New York Times Co., August 14, 2004 ed.
*: At the height of the technology bubble, Wave Systems attracted a devoted throng of investors from across the country who called themselves '''Wavoids'''.
* '''2004''', Scott Kirsner, [http://www.boston.com/business/technology/articles/2004/06/14/after_16_years_of_struggle_wave_awaits_its_big_break?mode=PF "After 16 years of struggle, Wave awaits its big break,"] ''Boston Globe'', The New York Times Co., June 14, 2004 ed.
*: Through the boom and bust, when Wave's stock sold for $50 a share and when it sold for less than a buck, when the company was delisted from the Nasdaq in 1997 and then reinstated in 1999, the '''Wavoids''' have been predicting that Wave will be bigger than Intel, AOL, or Yahoo -- and searching for clues that Wave's software is about to become the gold standard of trusted computing, an indispensable part of the 150 million PCs shipped yearly.
* '''2003''', Noam Scheiber, [http://www.tnr.com/doc.mhtml?i=20031117&s=scheiber111703 "Organization Man: Joe Trippi Reinvents Campaigning,"] ''New Republic'', The New Republic, November 17, 2003 ed.
*: Joe Trippi--username "random1"--was also a '''Wavoid'''.
* '''2000''', Danny Hakim, [http://www.smartmoney.com/stockwatch/index.cfm?story=200002281 "Who Wants to Marry a Wavoid Multimillionaire?"] ''SmartMoney'', SmartMoney (a joint venture between Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and Hearst Partnership), February 28, 2000 ed.
*: The '''Wavoids''' and Raging Bull's WAVX board are at the frontier of a still-evolving manifestation of modern investing life: the financial message board.
* '''1999''', Danny Hakim, [http://www.smartmoney.com/stockwatch/index.cfm?story=199912132 "Catching the Wave,"] ''SmartMoney'', SmartMoney (a joint venture between Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and Hearst Partnership), December 13, 1999 ed.
*: He created WAVX 101, an online "course" for fledgling '''Wavoids''' that is quite literally the book on Wave.