==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|weder|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*wedrą}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*wedʰrom}} (={{m|ine-pro|*we-dʰrom}}). Cognate wer|lang=nds}}, German {{term|Wetter|l*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|време|n|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|sh|вријем
* Sinhalese: {{t|si|කාලගුණය|tr=kālagūṇaya|sc=Sinh}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|počasie|n}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|vreme|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|tiempo|m}}
* Swahili: {{tàat}}, {{t+|th|อากาศ|tr=aagàat|sc=Thai}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|གནམ་གཤིས|sc=Tibt}}
* Tigrinya: {{t|ti|ኩነታት ኣየር|sc=Ethi}}, {{t|ti|ተጻወረ|sc=Ethi}}
* Timugon Murut: {{t|tih|baal}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|hava}}
* Turkmen: {{t|tk|howa}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|пого́да|f}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|موسم|m|tr=mausam}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|ھاۋا رايى|sc=ug-Arab}}, {{t|ug|ھاۋا|sc=ug-Arab}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|ob-havo}}, {{t+|uz|havo}}
* Venetian: {{t|vec|tenpo|m}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|thời tiết}} ({{t|vi|時節}})
* Welsh: {{t|cy|tywydd|m}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|waar|n}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|װעטער|n|sc=Hebr}}
* Zulu: {{t|zu|izulu|c5}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unpleasant or destructive atmospheric conditions}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sää|p|alt=säät}}
* French: {{t+|fr|intempéries|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|καιρός|m}}, {{t+|el|στοιχεία|n-p}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|időjárás}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|непо́года|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|[[mau]] [[tempo]]|m}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|intemperii|f-p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|непого́да|f}}, {{t+|ru|нена́стье|n}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|väder|n}}, {{t|sv|väder och vind}}, {{t|sv|vädrets makter|n-p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: windward side of a ship}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|luv|c}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ylähanka}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|[[наветренный|наве́тренная]] [[сторона́]]|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|lovart}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|situation}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Afrikaans: {{t-check|af|weer}}
* Albanian: {{t-check|sq|mot|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+check|ca|temps|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|weer|n}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|temps|m}}
* West Frisian: {{t-check|fy|waar|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t-check|he|מזג אוויר|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t-check|hi|ऋतु|m|sc=Deva}}
* Ido: {{t+check|io|vetero}}
* Indonesian: {{t+check|id|cuaca}}
* Interlingua: {{t+check|ia|tempore}}, {{t-check|ia|climate}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+check|it|tempo|m}}, {{t+check|it|clima|m}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+check|lt|oras|m}}
* Maltese: {{t-check|mt|temp|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+check|ro|vreme|f}}, {{t+check|ro|timp|n}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-check|sh|pogoda|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+check|sl|vreme|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|tiempo|m}}
* Telugu: {{t+check|te|వాతావరణం|sc=Telu}} (1)
* Turkish: {{t+check|tr|hava}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[expose]] to the weather, or show the [[effect]]s of such exposure, or to [[withstand]] such effects.
#* H. Miller
#*: The organisms {{...}} seem indestructible, while the hard matrix in which they are embedded has '''weathered''' from around them.
#* Spenser
#*: [An eagle] soaring through his wide empire of the air / To '''weather''' his broad sails.
# {{context|by extension|lang=en}} To sustain the trying effect of; to bear up against and overcome; to endure; to resist.
#* Longfellow
#*: For I can '''weather''' the roughest gale.
#* F. W. Robertson
#*: You will '''weather''' the difficulties yet.
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To pass to [[windward]] in a vessel, especially to [[beat]] 'round.
#: ''to '''weather''' a cape; to '''weather''' another ship''
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} To [[endure]] or [[survive]] an event or action without [[undue]] [[damage]].
#: ''Joshua '''weathered''' a collision with a freighter near South Africa.''
# {{context|falconry|lang=en}} To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air.
#: {{rfquotek|Encyc. Brit.}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''weather'' (verb)}}
* [[weather the storm]]
{{rel-mid3}}
{{rel-mid3}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to expose to weather}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|[[nechat]] [[zvětrat]]}}, {{t|cs|zvětrat}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|바래다|tr=baraeda}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|meteorizar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|pröva}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to pass to windward}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|nostaa tuuleen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to endure an event}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|přečkat}}, {{t|cs|přestát}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[selvitä]] (jostakin)}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t|de|überstehen}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|乗り切る|tr=norikiru}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|uthärda}}, {{t|sv|utstå}}, {{t|sv|genomlida}}, {{t+|sv|övervara}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[weareth#English|weareth]], [[whate'er#English|whate'er]], [[wheater#English|wheater]], [[whereat#English|whereat]], [[wreathe#English|wreathe]]

[[Category:English terms with homophones]]
[[Category:en:Weather]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:weather]]
[[ar:weather]]
[[ast:weather]]
[[zh-min-nan:weather]]
[[cs:weather]]
[[da:weather]]
[[de:weather]]
[[et:weather]]
[[el:weather]]
[[es:weather]]
[[eo:weather]]
[[eu:weather]]
[[fa:weather]]
[[fr:weather]]
[[fy:weather]]
[[ko:weather]]
[[hy:weather]]
[[io:weather]]
[[id:weather]]
[[ia:weather]]
[[it:weather]]
[[kn:weather]]
[[csb:weather]]
[[kk:weather]]
[[ku:weather]]
[[lo:weather]]
[[lv:weather]]
[[lt:weather]]
[[li:weather]]
[[hu:weather]]
[[mk:weather]]
[[mg:weather]]
[[ml:weather]]
[[my:weather]]
[[fj:weather]]
[[nl:weather]]
[[ja:weather]]
[[no:weather]]
[[nn:weather]]
[[oc:weather]]
[[pl:weather]]
[[pt:weather]]
[[ru:weather]]
[[simple:weather]]
[[fi:weather]]
[[sv:weather]]
[[ta:weather]]
[[te:weather]]
[[th:weather]]
[[chr:weather]]
[[tr:weather]]
[[uk:weather]]
[[vi:weather]]
[[zh:weather]]