{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width=100% style="border:2px solid #B8C7D9; padding:0px;"
|-
| colspan="2" style="background:#CEDFF2; text-align:center; padding:2px; border-bottom:1px #B8C7D9 solid;" |
<h2 style="margin:.5em; margin-top:.1em; border-bottom:0; font-weight:bold;">
_Webceleb_</h2>
|-
| valign="top" style="padding:8px 8px 0px 8px; background:#FFFFFF;" | 

<h2 style="margin:.2em; margin-top:.1em; text-align:center; border-bottom:0; font-weight:italic;">
''(wěb-sə-lěb') - noun''</h2>
<br>

__NOEDITSECTION__ {{TOCright}}
<br>
==Origins & Pioneers==
===Technological Accessibility===

The current state of our ever-developing technological dependency has created a bridge between privacy and availability.  In a world of location-aware technology, people are constantly becoming more readily available. This promotes the ability to deliver content, which is a major constituent in becoming a webceleb.  Utilizing these advancements facilitates the means with which people are broadcasting themselves online.

Two prime examples are handheld “Bodyware” and more immobile  “Roomware”.  

1) Bodyware such as: [[laptops]], [[PDAs]], BlackBerrys, [[iPhone]], [[wireless network interface cards]], as well as any other handheld data communication devices- are always communicating with computer [[servers]] and [[cellular frequencies]]. Each of these devices provides individuals with an indispensable utility- the ability to access wireless networks from varying geographic locations.

2) Roomware, or homeware, devices are primarily aimed at enabling similar capabilities as bodyware- minus the luxury of mobility.  These devices are employed in the comfort of your home and a few examples are: [[desktop computers]], internet connections, digital media devices ([[cameras]], [[camcorders]], [[webcams]], etc), and modems. <ref>{{cite news | url=http://www.wired.com/techbiz/it/magazine/15-07/local#1 | title=Dispatches from the Hyperlocal Future | author=Harvey FeldSpar | publisher=wired.com | date=[[2007-07-10]] | accessdate = 2007-09-16}}</ref>

===Hyperlocal Phenomena===

The internet enables normal people to elevate their status to webceleb super stardom, almost overnight.  Without it, many of these aspiring social entrepreneurs may have never captivated an audience.  Having access to this scope of an audience rivals the attention more conventional Hollywood stars and prime time athletes receive.

[[YouTube]] has become a prominent, viable outlet for spawning these [[internet celebrities]].


Examples of Wecelebs:




==References==
<div class="references-small">
<references/>
</div>


==See also==
*[[Internet Celebrities]] 
*[]


[[Category: Webceleb|*]]
[[Category: Celebrity]]
[[Category:Mass media]]
[[Category: Internet]]