==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈwɛdəd/}}
* {{audio|en|En-us-wedded.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɛdəd|s=2}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|of a couple}} Joined in [[marriage]].
# Joined as if in a marriage.
#: {{ux|en|She was too '''wedded''' to the first thought that came into her mind to see that her second idea was better.}}
#* {{quote-journal|en|year=1960|month=November|author=P. Ransome-Wallis|title=Modern motive power of the German Federal Railway: Part Three|journal=Trains Illustrated|page=677|text=The future policy of the Bundesbahn in diesel traction is firmly '''wedded''' to high-speed engines with hydraulic transmissions, and has standardised on four&mdash;possibly five&mdash;types.}}
#*{{quote-web|en|September 22 2021|url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/58643421|author={{w|Guillem Balagué}}|work=BBC Sport|title=Barcelona: The toxic battle ripping apart a European giant|passage=So instead what we have now is a marriage of inconvenience - and it's fair to say that since then, the two haven't exactly walked hand in hand into the sunset to enjoy a life of '''wedded''' bliss.}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|weddedness}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Joined in marriage}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Joined as if in a marriage}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|wed}}
#* '''15th c.''', [1997], [[w:Thomas Malory|Thomas Malory]], Eugène Vinaver ed.
#*: And kynge Lott of Lowthean and of Orkenay thenne '''wedded''' Margawse that was Gaweyns moder, and kynge Nentres of the land of Garlot '''wedded''' Elayne: al this was done at the request of kynge Uther.
#* '''1911''' [1990], T. W. Rolleston, ''Celtic Myths and Legends'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=OcbAOkX1uRYC&pg=PA181&lpg=PA181&sig=55jgL7lmh-RoSHLCFwUE9Ak9TTM]
#*: Ross the Red, it is said, '''wedded''' a Danaan woman, Maga, daughter of Angus Ōg.
#* '''1976''' [2004], J. E. A. Tyler, ''The Complete Tolkien Companion'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=lII4lt_MAmQC&pg=PA328&lpg=PA328&sig=1Xrj5Ba8WNVeXzclh60oQtpM3lE]
#*: Húrin '''wedded''' Morwen Eledhwen of the First House — and ''their'' children were Túrin and Nienor.
#* '''a. 1911''' 1986, Howard Pyle, ''The Story of King Arthur and His Knights'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=vALiAcRyBcwC&pg=PA380&lpg=PA380&sig=hOThAAm-raql5gJhpMZzbU1P-T8]
#*: But when he shall have '''wedded''' himself unto that duty so that he hath made it one with him as a bridegroom maketh himself one with his bride, then doth that duty become of a sudden very beautiful unto him and unto others.
#* '''1986,''' St. John Chrysostom, ''On Marriage and Family Life,'' Catherine P. Roth & David Anderson tr. [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=hbMtKk-kiLMC&pg=PA112&lpg=PA112&sig=GVHA-ol3fLhiSzro9HX7X4Rs4hE]
#*: She was '''wedded''' wearing no golden robe but chastity, piety, generosity, and every other virtue.
#* '''2004''' Maureen O’Hara, ''’Tis Herself'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=_xBMo-UNCgMC&pg=PA36&lpg=PA36&sig=NfvJnZ59cPHM1_x5_61cDx1BVjg]
#*: “Who would have thought she’d already been '''wedded''' and bedded?”