{{wikipedia|dab=weight (disambiguation)|weight}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[wiht]]'', ''ġewiht''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/weɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-weight.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|eɪt}}

====Homophones====
* [[wait]]

===Noun===
{{wikipedia|weight}}
{{en-noun}}

# The [[force]] on an object due to the gravitational attraction between it and the Earth.
# An object used to make something heavier.
# A [[standardized]] block of [[metal]] used in a [[balance]] to measure the [[mass]] of another object.
# {{weightlifting}} A [[disc]] of [[iron]], [[dumbbell]], or [[barbell]] used for training the [[muscle]]s.
# {{physics}} [[mass|Mass]] ([[net weight]], [[atomic weight]], [[molecular weight]], [[troy weight]], [[carat weight]], etc.).
# {{statistics}} A variable which multiplies a value for ease of statistical manipulation.
# {{topology}} The smallest cardinality of a base.
# {{typography}} The [[boldness]] of a [[font]]; the relative thickness of its [[stroke]]s.
# ((aesthetics)) The [[illusion]] of [[mass]].
# ((aesthetics)) The [[thickness]] and [[opacity]] of [[paint]].

: ''Compare to'' [[mass]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|force due to gravity}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կշիռ|sc=Armn|tr=kšiṙ}}
* Chinese (Simplified): [[重量]] (zhòng liàng)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gewicht}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|kaal}}
* [[Ewe]]: [[kpekpeme]] {{n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paino}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poids}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gewicht|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|súly}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|peso|m}}
* Japanese: [[重さ]] (omosa), [[重量]] (jūryō) ''general''; [[体重]] (taijū) ''animals incl. person''
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|peso}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|greutate|f}}
* Russian: [[вес]] (v'es) {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tyngd|c}}, {{t+|sv|vikt|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[భారము]] (bhaaramu)
* Ukrainian: [[вага]] (wah'''a''') {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|object to make something heavier}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|բեռ|sc=Armn|tr=beṙ}}
* Chinese (Simplified): [[配重]] (pèi zhòng)
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gewicht}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paino}}
* French: {{t+|fr|poids}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gewicht|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|súly}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|peso|m}}
* Japanese: [[重り]] ([[おもり]], omori)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|peso}}
* Romanian: {{t-|ro|greutate|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|груз|m|tr=gruz|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vikt|c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[బరువు]] (baruvu)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|measuring weights}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կշռաքար|sc=Armn|tr=kšṙak'ar}}
* Chinese (Simplified): [[砝码]] (fá mǎ)
* Estonian: {{t|et|kaaluma}}
* Finnish: [[punnus]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|súly}}
* Japanese: [[分銅]] (fundō)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|гиря|f|tr=gír'a|sc=Cyrl}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vikt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|sport device}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paino}}, {{t-|fi|puntti}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gewicht|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|súly}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|peso|m}}
* Japanese: [[重り]] (omori)
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: [[блин]] (blin) {{m}} ''disc'', [[гиря]] (gír'a) {{f}} ''dumbbell'', [[гантель]] (gantél') {{f}} ''barbell''
* Spanish: {{t-|es|pesa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vikt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|physics: mass}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|զանգված|sc=Armn|tr=zangvaç}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|váha|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|paino}}
* French: {{t+|fr|masse}}
* German: {{t+|de|Masse|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|tömeg}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|massa|f}}
* Japanese: [[重さ]] (omosa), [[重量]] (jūryō), [[荷重]] (kajū)
* Russian: [[вес]] (v'es) {{m}}, [[масса]] (mássa) {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|masa|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|massa|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|statistics: statistical value}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|կշիռ|sc=Armn|tr=kšiṙ}}
* Chinese (Simplified): [[权重]] (quán zhòng)
* Finnish: [[painoarvo]], [[painokerroin]], [[paino]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[重さ]] (omosa), [[重み]] (omomi)
* Russian: [[вес]] (v'es) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|Ido}} : [[pezo]]
* {{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[berat]]
* {{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[peso]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[weigh]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[add]] weight to something, in order to make it [[heavier]].
# {{transitive}} To [[load]], [[burden]] or [[oppress]] someone.
# {{context|transitive|mathematics}} To [[assign]] weights to individual [[statistic]]s.
# {{transitive}} To [[bias]] something; to [[slant]].
# {{context|transitive|horse racing}} To [[handicap]] a [[horse]] with a specified weight.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|add weight}}
* French: {{t+|fr|alourdir}}
* German: {{t+|de|beschweren}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: [[göra tyngre]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|oppress}}
* Swedish: [[tynga]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in mathematics}}
* French: {{t+|fr|pondérer}}
* German: [[gewichten]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Romanian: [[a pondera]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vikta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to bias, to slant}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to handicap a horse}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:Mechanics]]

[[ar:weight]]
[[zh-min-nan:weight]]
[[de:weight]]
[[et:weight]]
[[es:weight]]
[[fa:weight]]
[[fr:weight]]
[[io:weight]]
[[id:weight]]
[[it:weight]]
[[kk:weight]]
[[ku:weight]]
[[lo:weight]]
[[hu:weight]]
[[ml:weight]]
[[nl:weight]]
[[ja:weight]]
[[oc:weight]]
[[pl:weight]]
[[ru:weight]]
[[simple:weight]]
[[fi:weight]]
[[sv:weight]]
[[ta:weight]]
[[te:weight]]
[[vi:weight]]
[[tr:weight]]
[[uk:weight]]
[[zh:weight]]