{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|up|your|any|59|what|do|has|could}}

===Pronunciation===
{|class=wikitable
|-
|||[[w:IPA chart for English|IPA]]||[[w:X-SAMPA|SAMPA]]||[[w:American Heritage Dictionary|AHD]]
|-
||[[w:British English|UK]]||{{IPAchar|/wɒt/}}, {{IPAchar|/ʍɒt/}}||/wQt/, /WQt/||wŏt, hwŏt
|-
||[[w:General American English|US]]||{{IPAchar|/wʌt/}}, {{IPAchar|/ʍʌt/}}||/wVt/, /WVt/||wŭt, hwŭt
|-
||[[w:Australian English phonology|AusE]]||{{IPAchar|/wɔt/}}||/wOt/||wŏt
|-
|}
* {{audio|en-us-what.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɒt}}

===Homophones===
*[[w:Watt|Watt]] (''in accents with the [[wine-whine merger]]'')
*[[watt]] (''in accents with the wine-whine merger'')
*[[wot]] (''in accents with the wine-whine merger'')

===Etymology===
{{ME.}} < {{OE.}} [[hwæt]] < Proto-Germanic < Proto-Indo-European base ''*kwos, *kwod'' (which also gave us ‘[[who]]’).

{{rfc-header|Interrogative determiner}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English determiners]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

----

==Exclamatory==
'''what!'''

# an expression of surprise or disbelief.
#:'''''What'''! That’s amazing.''
# [mostly British colloquialism]: is that not true?
#:''It’s a nice day, '''what'''?'' (sometimes repeated, e.g.: '''''What'''-'''what'''?'')
# [mostly British colloquialism]: greeting (archaic).
#:'''''What''' ho, Frobisher!''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[какво]]! (kakvo)
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: [[dar]]!
*Czech: [[co#Czech|co]]!
*Dutch: [[wat]]!
*Estonian: [[mida]]?, [[mis]]?, [[misasja]]?, [[kuidas]]?
*Finnish: [[mikä|mitä]]! (1)
*French: [[quoi]]&nbsp;!, [[comment]]&nbsp;!
*German: [[was#German|was]]!
*Hebrew: [[מה]]? (ma)
*Hungarian: [[mi]]? (1)
*Indonesian: [[apa]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[何]] (なに, náni)
*Polish: [[co#Polish|co]]!
*Portuguese [[o quê?]]
*Russian: [[как]]! (kak); [[что ли]]? (što li)
*Slovak: [[čo]]
*Spanish: ¡[[qué]]! ¿[[no]]?
*Swedish: [[va#Swedish|va!]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Interrogative==

===Pronoun===
'''what?'''

# which thing
#:'''''What''' is that?''
#:'''''What''' happened?''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[ç']]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ماذا]]}} (māðā)
*:Egyptian: {{ARchar|[[إيه]]}} (ʔee)
*:Palestinian: {{ARchar|[[إيش]]}} (ʔeeš)
*:Syrian: {{ARchar|[[شو]]}} (šū)
*Armenian: [[ի՞նչ]] (inč‘)
*[[Balinese]]: [[apa]]
*[[Basque]]: [[zer]]
*Bengali: [[কি]] (ki)
*[[Bikol]]: [[ano]]
*Bulgarian: [[какво]] (kakvo)
*[[Butuanon]]: [[ngan]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[què]]
*[[Cebuano]]: [[unsa]]
*Chinese:
*:Cantonese: [[乜嘢]] (mātyẹ́, mīyẹ́), [[咩]] (mẹ́)
*:Mandarin: [[什麼]], [[什么]] (shénme), [[啥]] (shá), [[何]] (hé)
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: [[pandra]], [[pyth]]
*Croatian: [[šta]], [[što]]
*Czech: [[co]]
*Danish: [[hvad]]
*Dutch: [[wat]]
*Esperanto: [[kio]]
*Estonian: [[mis]], [[mida]]
*Finnish: [[mikä]], [[mitä]]
*French: [[quoi]]
*[[Gamilaraay]]: [[minya]]
*German: [[was#German|was]]
*Greek: [[τι]] (ti)
*Hawaiian: [[aha]]
*Hebrew: [[מה]] (ma)
*[[Hiligaynon]]: [[ano]]
*Hindi: [[क्या]] (kyā)
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[mi#Hungarian|mi]]
*[[Ibanag]]: [[anni]]
*Icelandic: [[hvað]]
*[[Ido]]: [[quo]]
*Ilocano: [[ania]]
*Indonesian: [[apa]]
*Irish: [[cad#Irish|cad]]
*Italian: [[che cosa]], [[cosa]]
*Japanese: [[何]] ([[なに]], náni [''when used alone'']; [[なん]] nan [''when used with another word''])
*[[Kapampangan]]: [[nanu]]
*Korean: [[무엇]] (mueot)
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[چی]]}}
*Latin: [[quod]]
*Maori: [[aha]]
*Norwegian: [[hva]]
*[[Pangasinan]]: [[anto]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[چه|چِه]]}} (če), {{FAchar|[[چی]]}} (či)
*Polish: [[co#Polish|co]]
*Portuguese: [[o que#Portuguese|o que]]
*Romanian: [[ce#Romanian|ce]]
*Russian: [[что]] (što)
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[dè]]
*Scots: [[whit]]
*Slovak: [[čo]]
*Slovene: [[kaj]]
*Spanish: [[qué]], [[cuál]]
*Swedish: [[vad]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[ano#Tagalog|ano]]
*[[Tausug]]: [[unu]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఏమిటి]] (aemiTi)
*Turkish: [[ne#Turkish|ne]]
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[كيا]]}} (kyā)
*[[Waray-Waray]]: ano
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''what?'''

# which; which kind of.
#:'''''What''' shirt are you going to wear?''
#: '''''What''' kind of car is that?''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: [[py]], [[pyneyl]] ''which of two''
*Czech: [[jaký]]
*Dutch: [[welk]]
*Esperanto: [[kiu]]
*Estonian: [[milline]]
*Finnish: [[mikä]] (1,2), [[millainen]] (2)
*French: [[quel]] {{m}}, [[quelle]] {{f}}, [[quels]] {{p}}, [[quelles]] ''f pl''
*German: [[welche|welche(r,s)]]
*Hindi: (kyun)
*Hungarian: [[milyen]] (1,2), [[melyik]] (1), [[micsoda]] (2), [[mekkora]] (2)
*Norwegian: [[hvilken]]
{{mid}}
*Oriya: (kana)
*Polish: [[który]] {{m}} (1), [[która]] {{f}} (1), [[które]] {{n}} (1), [[jaki]] {{m}} (2), [[jaka]] {{f}} (2) [[jakie]] {{n}} (2)
*Portuguese: [[qual]], [[que]]
*Romanian: [[ce#Romanian|ce]]
*Russian: [[который]]/[[которая]]/[[которое]] (kotóryj/kotóraja/kotóroje) ''m/f/n'' (1), [[какой]]/[[какая]]/[[какое]] (kakój/kakája/kakóje) ''m/f/n'' (2)
*Slovak: [[čo]]
*Spanish: [[qué]] (1), [[cuál]] (1), [[menudo]] (2)
*Swedish: [[vilken]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఏ]] (ae)
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''what?'''

# in what respect? to what degree? how?
#:'''''What''' does it matter''?
# [Obs.] why?

====Synonyms====
*[[such]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: (idiomatic)
*::''What does it matter?'' = pan goll eus awos henna? (literally ''what loss is-there because-of that?'')
{{bottom}}

----

==Nonstandard usage==

===Relative pronoun===
'''what'''

# [[that]]; [[which]]
#*'''1902,''' [[w:J. M. Barrie|J. M. Barrie]], ''[[w:The Admirable Crichton|The Admirable Crichton]]''
#*:That’s her; that’s the thing '''what''' has stole his heart from me.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[der]] {{m}}, [[die]] {{f}}, [[das]] {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[mi]], [[ami]], [[mit]] ''accusative'', [[amit]] ''accusative''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[som]]
{{bottom}}
{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|Translations to be checked}}
*Cantonese: [[咁]] (gam), [[真係]]/[[真系]] (jān h<u>a</u>i), [[的確係]]/[[的确系]] (dīkkok h<u>a</u>i), [[真正係]]/[[真正系]] (jānjing h<u>a</u>i)
*Czech: [[co]] za, [[jaký]]
*Estonian: [[kui]], [[milline]], [[selline]] <!--[[taoline]]-->
*French: [[quel]]/[[quelle]] ''m/f''
*German: [[was für]], [[wie]], [[so#German|so]]
*Hebrew: [[איזה]]/[[איזו]] (eize/eizo) {{mf}}
*Hungarian: [[micsoda]], [[milyen]]
*Indonesian: [[apa]]
*Italian: [[che]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[何と]] (なんと, nanto)
*Latin: [[qui]] {{m}}, [[quae]] {{f}}, [[quod]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[que]]
*Russian: [[какой]]/[[какая]]/[[какое]] (kakój/kakája/kakóje) ''m/f/n'', [[что за]] (što za)
*Slovene: [[kako]], [[kaj]]
*Spanish: [[qué]]
*Swedish: [[vilken]] {{c}}, [[vilket]] {{n}}, [[vilka]] {{p}}
{{trans-bottom}}

----

==Relative==

===Pronoun===
'''what'''

# that which; those which; the thing that
#:''He knows '''what''' he wants.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Armenian: [[ինչ]] (inč‘)
*Bulgarian: [[какво]] (kakvo)
*[[Cornish]]: [[pyth]]
*Czech: [[co]]
*Dutch: [[wat]]
*Esperanto: [[ke]], [[kiu]]
*Estonian: [[mis#Estonian|mida]]
*Finnish: [[mikä]]
*French: [[ce que]], [[ce qui]]
*German: [[was#German|was]]
*Hungarian: [[mi]], [[mit]] ''accusative''
*Italian: [[ciò che]], [[quello che]], [[cosa]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: ''(no relative pronouns)''
*Norwegian: [[hva]]
*Polish: [[to#Polish|to]] [[co#Polish|co]]
*Portuguese: [[o que]]
*Romanian: [[care#Romanian|care]]
*Russian: [[что]] (što); [[то, что]] (to, što)
*Slovene: [[kaj]]
*Spanish: [[lo que]]
*Swedish: [[vad]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[ano]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''what'''

# ''the ... who/which/that''
#:''He didn't know '''what''' day it was''.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: [[py]]
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''what'''

# Such; this is; that is.
#:'''''What''' a pity''.
#:'''''What''' a beautiful day''!
# [Obs.] why?

====Synonyms====
*[[such]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Cornish]]:
*:Kernewek Kemmyn: (idiomatic)
*::''What a pity'' = tru! (literally ''alas!''); ass yw dihedh! (literally ''how it-is cause-for-regret'')
*::''What a beautiful day!'' = ass yw teg an jydh! (literally ''how it-is beautiful the day'')
{{bottom}}

[[es:what]]
[[fr:what]]
[[ko:what]]
[[io:what]]
[[it:what]]
[[kk:what]]
[[ku:what]]
[[hu:what]]
[[ja:what]]
[[pl:what]]
[[pt:what]]
[[ru:what]]
[[simple:what]]
[[fi:what]]
[[ta:what]]
[[tr:what]]
[[zh:what]]