==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{qualifier|UK}} [[what do you want, a biscuit]]?
* {{l|en|what do you want, a medal}}?

===Etymology===
{{rfe|lang=en}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈwɒt də ju ˈwɒnt {{!}} ə ˈkʊki/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|/ˈwʌt də jə ˈwɑnt {{!}} ə ˈkʊki/|/- ˈwʌnt -/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-au-what do you want, a cookie.ogg|Audio (AU)|lang=en}}

===Phrase===
{{en-phrase}}'''?'''

# {{lb|en|rhetorical question|sarcastic}} A phrase sometimes given as a retort to someone who has done something unsurprising or unimpressive and has seen fit to inform one of having done so.
#* '''1994''', R. Jeffrey Ringer, ''Queer Words, Queer Images: Communication and Construction of Homosexuality'' {{ISBN|0814774415}}, p.230
#*: "I was straight to the point - "Laurie, I'm gay." "Bernard, I've known that for a long time. So, '''what do you want, a cookie?''' Now deal the cards!"
#* '''2001''', Mary Rogers, ''Drop Your Webbings!'' (from ''Class Acts: High School Plays by High School Writers'' {{ISBN|0738847402}} by Randy Lee Hartwig), p.30
#*: DOLL. Buzzet attacked me last night. I have scars! Look at my arm! And my hair is flat too!
#*: SPIDER. '''What do you want a cookie?'''
#* '''2004''', James H. Taylor, ''Curiosity Killed the Chelsea Boy'' {{ISBN|1413440347}}, p.153
#*: "I wait for ju, five minute," He says. "Well '''what do you want, a cookie'''" I tell him and he looks at me like he does not understand."
#* '''2006''', Antonio Garza, ''The House with the Magic Cellar: Realm: I'' {{ISBN|0595392911}}, p.103
#*: "The way I see it, I'm already doing all the work, and I'm doing the spells and incantations," stated Bowolf. "So '''what do you want, a cookie?'''" laughed Prolok.

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|do you need an invitation}}

[[Category:English sentences]]