==English==

{{rank|George|influence|March|668|whatever|reach|secret|showed}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ʍɒtˈɛvə/}}
*{{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ʍɑtˈɛvɚ/}}
*{{audio|en-us-whatever.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{rhymes|ɛvə(r)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# [[unexceptional|Unexceptional]] or [[unimportant]].
#*'''2002''' August 28, Kirk Gregory Czuhai <lovekgc@altelco.net>, "SHEESSSESSE! here's your answer! IQ=very '''whatever'''!Re: Does that mean Czuhai that Clinton is also an 'accomplise' to murder? The man Clinton refused to stop from being put to death was RETARDED!", ''alt.impeach.bush'', Usenet.
#*'''2007''', [[w:Avril Lavigne|Avril Lavigne]], [[w:Girlfriend (Avril Lavigne song)|"Girlfriend"]], [[w:The Best Damn Thing|''The Best Damn Thing'']],
#*:She's like so '''whatever'''&nbsp;/ You can do so much better

===Determiner===
{{en-det}}

# No matter which; for any
#: '''''Whatever''' choice you make, there will be consequences.''
# {{context|relative}} Anything that.
#: '''''Whatever''' you say is fine with me.''

====Derived terms====
*[[whatever creams your twinkie]]
*[[whatever floats your boat]]
*[[whatever it takes]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|no matter which; for any}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|uanset}}
* Dutch: [[welke ... ook]]
* French: [[quel que soit]], [[n'importe quel]] {{m}}, n'importe quelle {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{ku-Arab|[[هه‌رچی]]}}
* Russian: [[какой бы ни]]; [[любой]]; [[какой бы то ни было]]
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|vad som helst}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|anything}}
* Danish: [[hvad end]], [[alt hvad]], [[hvad som helst]]
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|maakt niet uit}}
* French: {{t+|fr|quoi que}}
* German: [[was immer]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: [[cokolwiek]]
* Russian: [[всё, что]]; [[что бы ни]]; [[всё]]
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|vad som helst}}
* [[Ugaritic]]: {{tø|uga|𐎎𐎐𐎎|tr=mnm|sc=Ugar|xs=Ugaritic}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# A [[holophrastic]] expression used discourteously to indicate that the speaker does not consider the matter worthy of further discussion.
#:Parent: ''For the last time, clean up your room!''
#:Child: '''''Whatever'''.''

====Usage notes====
*Tone of voice is particularly important here in playing up or playing down the dismissive quality of the word.

====Synonyms====
*[[so what]]
*[[whoopee do]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|indicating the matter is not worthy of further discussion}}
* German: [[wie dem auch sei]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[karkoli]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron}}
# [[anything|Anything]]; used to indicate that the speaker does not care about options.
#:''I'll do '''whatever''' I can.''
#:''Do you want Chinese or Mexican for lunch today? &mdash; '''Whatever'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|anything}}
* Danish: [[hvad som helst]], (det er) [[ligegyldigt]]
* French: [[n'importe quoi]] (1), [[peu importe]] (2)
* German: {{t+|de|egal}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Slovene: [[karkoli]]
* Spanish: [[no importa]], [[da igual]]
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|vad som helst}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[however]]
*[[howsoever]]
*[[whatsoever]]
*[[whenever]]
*[[whensoever]]
*[[wherever]]
*[[wheresoever]]
*[[whichever]]
*[[whoever]]
*[[whomever]]
*[[whomsoever]]
*[[whosoever]]
*[[wherever]]
*[[whyever]]
*[[whysoever]]
*[[no matter what]]

[[et:whatever]]
[[es:whatever]]
[[fr:whatever]]
[[ko:whatever]]
[[it:whatever]]
[[ku:whatever]]
[[hu:whatever]]
[[no:whatever]]
[[oc:whatever]]
[[pl:whatever]]
[[simple:whatever]]
[[fi:whatever]]
[[ta:whatever]]
[[te:whatever]]
[[vi:whatever]]
[[zh:whatever]]