==English==
{{was wotd|2012|November|9}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|hwĕns}}, {{IPA|/ʍɛns/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/WEns/}}
* {{qualifier|in accents with the [[wine-whine merger]]}} {{enPR|wĕns}}, {{IPA|/wɛns/}}, {{X-SAMPA|/wEns/}}
* {{audio|en-us-whence.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɛns}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|whennes|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|hwanone|lang=ang}} (with adverbial genitive {{term|-s|lang=en}}), related to {{term|hwænne|lang=ang}}.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# From [[where]]; from which [[place]] or [[source]].
#: '''''Whence''' came I?''
#* '''1818''', {{w|Mary Shelley}}, {{w|Frankenstein|''Frankenstein''}}, Chapter 4:
#*: '''Whence''', I often asked myself, did the principle of life proceed?
#* '''1898''', {{w|J. Meade Falkner}}, {{w|Moonfleet|''Moonfleet''}}, Chapter 3:
#*: At first I could not tell what this new sound was, nor '''whence''' it came, and now it seemed a little noise close by, and now a great noise in the distance. And then it grew nearer and more defined, and in a moment I knew it was the sound of voices talking.

====Usage notes====
* This word is uncommon in modern usage; ''from where'' is now usually substituted (as in the example sentence: ''Where did I come from?'' or ''From where did I come?''). It is now chiefly encountered in older works, or in poetic or literary writing.
* ''From whence'' has a strong literary precedent, appearing in Shakespeare and the King James Bible as well as in the writings of numerous Victorian-era writers. In recent times, however, it has been criticized as redundant by usage commentators.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|From where; from which place or source}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|откъде|tr=otkădé|sc=Cyrl}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|odkud}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hvorfra}}, {{t|da|hvoraf}}, {{t|da|hveden}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waarvandaan}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|de kie}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mistä}}
* Fore: {{t|for|forrt}}, {{t|for|gerrt}}
* French: {{t+|fr|d'où}}, {{t|fr|d'oú}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|საიდან|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|woher}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αφού|tr=afoú}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|honnan}}, {{t+|hu|honnét}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hvaðan}}
* Italian: da dove
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|어디서|tr=eo-di-seo|sc=Kore}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|unde}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|од каде|tr=od káde|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|hvorfra}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|kvar ifrå}}, {{t|nn|kor ifrå}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|skąd}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|donde}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|de unde}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|откуда}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|odakle}}, {{t|sh|otkud}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|[[de]] [[donde]]}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|varifrån}}, {{t|sv|var i från}}, {{t+|sv|vadan}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Conjunction===
'''whence'''

# From where.
#* {{quote-book|year=1611|title=King James Bible|section=John 8:14|url=[s:Bible (King James)/John{{!}}Wikisource]|passage=Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true: for I know '''whence''' I came, and [[whither]] I go; but ye cannot tell '''whence''' I come, and [[whither]] I go.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1883|author=Robert Louis Stevenson|title=Treasure Island|chapter=The Sea-chest|url=[s:Treasure Island/Chapter 4{{!}}Wikisource]|passage=[W]hat greatly encouraged me, it was in an opposite direction from that '''whence''' the blind man had made his appearance and [[whither]] he had presumably returned.}}
# {{context|literary|poetic|lang=en}} From which.
#: ''From French, '''whence''' we get most of our modern cooking terms.''
#: ''I scored more than you in the exam, '''whence''' we can conclude that I am better at the subject than you are.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|From where}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hvorfra}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|el kie}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mistä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|d'où}}
* German: {{t+|de|woher}}
* Greek: {{t|el|από πού}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ahonnan}}, {{t+|hu|ahonnét}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|da dove}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|откаде|tr=ótkade|sc=Cyrl}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|de onde}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|de unde}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|откуда}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|varifrån}}, {{t|sv|var i från}}, {{t+|sv|vadan}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|From which}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hvorfra}}, {{t|da|hvoraf}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mistä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|d'où}}, {{t+|fr|duquel|m}}, {{t+|fr|desquels|m-p}}, {{t+|fr|de laquelle|f}}, {{t+|fr|desquelles|f-p}}, {{t+|fr|dont}}, {{t|fr|ce dont}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: [[από]] [[όπου]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ahonnan}}, {{t|hu|amiből}}
* Russian: [[откуда]], [[отсюда]], [[следовательно]], [[значит]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|varav}}, {{t|sv|var av}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[waarvandaan]], “[[waar]] … [[vandaan]]…”
* {{ttbc|de}}: [[woher]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: da dove (1); da cui (2)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
* [[whither]]

====Related terms====
* [[elsewhence]]
* [[thence]]
* [[hence]]
* [[whencever]]
* [[whencesoever]]
* [[whenceforth]]

[[Category:English conjunctions]]
[[Category:English interrogative adverbs]]

[[cs:whence]]
[[et:whence]]
[[es:whence]]
[[fr:whence]]
[[ko:whence]]
[[io:whence]]
[[it:whence]]
[[ku:whence]]
[[li:whence]]
[[hu:whence]]
[[ml:whence]]
[[my:whence]]
[[ja:whence]]
[[pl:whence]]
[[pt:whence]]
[[ro:whence]]
[[ru:whence]]
[[simple:whence]]
[[fi:whence]]
[[sv:whence]]
[[te:whence]]
[[chr:whence]]
[[vi:whence]]
[[zh:whence]]