==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|wâ(r)'fô(r)"}}, {{IPA|/ˈweə(ɹ)ˌfɔː(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{enPR|hwâ(r)'fô(r)"}}, {{IPA|/ˈʍeə(ɹ)ˌfɔː(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|where|fore|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|wherfor}}, {{m|enm|wherfore}}, {{m|enm|hwarfore}}, equivalent to {{compound|where|t1==what|for|lang=en}}. Compare {{cog|nl|waarvoor||what&nbsp;for, wherefore}}, {{cog|de|wofür||for&nbsp;what, what&nbsp;for, why}}, {{etyl|da|-}} and {{etyl|no|-}} {{m|da|hvorfor||wherefore, why}}, {{cog|sv|varför||wherefore, why}}. More at {{l|en|where}}, {{l|en|for}}.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{lb|en|conjunctive|archaic}} [[why|Why]], for what reason, because of what.
#* '''1920''', {{w|Herman Cyril McNeile}}, ''Bulldog Drummond'' Chapter 1
#*: "Good morning, Mrs. Denny," he said. "'''Wherefore''' this worried look on your face? Has that reprobate James been misbehaving himself?"
#* "Job", ''Holy Bible'' [[King James Version]], 21:7:
#*: '''Wherefore''' do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power?
#* '''1595''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[w:Romeo and Juliet|Romeo and Juliet]]''
#*: Romeo, O Romeo. '''Wherefore''' art thou Romeo?
# {{lb|en|conjunctive|archaic|or|formal}} [[therefore|Therefore]].

====Usage notes====
A common misconception is that '''wherefore''' means ''where''; it has even been used in that sense in cartoon depictions of Romeo and Juliet{{rfc-sense|en}}, often played for comedic effect. In ''Romeo and Juliet'', the meaning of “Wherefore art thou Romeo?” ([[s:The Tragedy of Romeo and Juliet#SCENE II. Capulet.27s orchard.|Act 2, scene 2, line 33]]) is not “''Where'' are you, Romeo?” but “''Why'' are you Romeo?” (i.e. “Why did you have to be a Montague?”).<ref>{{R:Phrase Finder|entry=O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?|url=http://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/O%20Romeo%2C%20Romeo%21%20wherefore%20art%20thou%20Romeo%3F.html|accessdate=26 February 2017}}</ref>

====See also====
* [[:Category:English pronominal adverbs]]

===Conjunction===
{{en-con}}

# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[because|Because]] of [[which]].
#:* ''Holy Bible'', '''''Wherefore''' thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon: <br>Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant.'' (Isaiah 30:12-13)
#:* {{quote-book
|year=1914
|year_published=2009
|edition=HTML
|editor=
|author=Edgar Rice Burroughs
|title=The Mucker
|chapter=
|url=http://www.gutenberg.org/files/331/331-h/331-h.htm
|genre=
|publisher=The Gutenberg Project
|isbn=
|page=
|passage='''Wherefore''' it was that by the time the authorities awoke to the fact that something had happened Billy Byrne was fifty miles west of Joliet, bowling along aboard a fast Santa Fe freight.
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|because of which}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|pročež}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hvorfor}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waarom}}, {{t+|nl|waarvoor}}
* French: {{t+|fr|d'où}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|რატომ}}, {{t|ka|რისთვის}}
* German: {{t+|de|warum}}, {{t+|de|weswegen}}, {{t+|de|wofür}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|γιατί|sc=Grek}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|למה|tr=lama}}, {{t+|he|מדוע|tr=madua}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|perché}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|何故|tr=naniyue|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|hvorfor}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|korfor}}, {{t+|nn|kvifor}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dlaczego}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|por quê}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|почему́}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|por qué}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|varför}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|niçin}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|paham}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|wêrom}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An intent or purpose; a [[why]].
#* {{quote-book|title=Good evening Mr. & Mrs. America, and all the ships at sea|page=72|author=Richard Bausch|year=1996|passage=They want their money without reference to the hows and '''wherefores'''.}}
#* '''1595''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[w:A Comedy of Errors|A Comedy of Errors]]''
#*: Every why hath a '''wherefore'''.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the adverb, conjunction, or noun ''wherefore''}}
* {{l|en|whys and wherefores}}
{{rel-mid}}
{{rel-bottom}}

===References===
<references/>

[[Category:English conjunctive adverbs]]
[[Category:English pronominal adverbs]]