==English==

===Etymology===
{{PIE root|en|kʷ}}
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|hwæþer}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*hwaþeraz}}, comparative form of {{m|gem-pro|*hwaz||who}}. Cognate with German {{m|de|weder||neither}}, Swedish {{m|sv|hvar}}, Icelandic {{m|is|hvorr||each}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|wĕ'''th''ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈwɛðə(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{enPR|hwĕ'''th''ə(r)}}, {{IPA|/ˈʍɛðə(ɹ)/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-whether.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛðə(ɹ)|lang=en}}
* {{hyphenation|wheth|er|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|weather|wether}} {{qualifier|both in accents with the [[wine-whine merger]]}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron}}

# {{label|en|obsolete}} [[which|Which]] of two. {{defdate|11th-19th c.}}
#* '''1526''', William Tyndale, trans. ''Bible'', Matthew XXVII:
#*: The debite answered and sayde unto them: '''whether''' of the twayne will ye that I lett loosse unto you?
#* Bible, Matthew xxi. 31
#*: '''Whether''' of them twain did the will of his father?

===Conjunction===
{{en-con}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} {{non-gloss definition|Introducing a direct [[interrogative]] question (often with correlative {{term|or}}) which indicates doubt between [[alternative]]s.}}
#* '''1526''', {{w|William Tyndale}}, trans. ''Bible'', Mark II:
#*: '''whether''' ys it easyer to saye to the sicke of the palsey, thy synnes ar forgeven the: or to saye, aryse, take uppe thy beed and walke?
#* '''1616''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|King John}}'', I.i:
#*: '''Whether''' hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge, [...] Or the reputed sonne of Cordelion?
# {{non-gloss definition|Used to introduce an indirect interrogative question that consists of multiple alternative possibilities (usually with correlative {{term|or}})}}.
#: {{ux|en|He chose the correct answer, but I don't know '''whether''' it was by luck or by skill.}}
#* {{RQ:Brmnghm Gsmr|I|01}}
#*: As a political system democracy seems to me extraordinarily foolish,{{nb...}}. My servant is, so far as I am concerned, welcome to as many votes as he can get.{{...}}I do not suppose that it matters much in reality '''whether''' laws are made by dukes or cornerboys, but I like, as far as possible, to associate with gentlemen in private life.
#* {{quote-journal|date=June 19, 2012|author=Phil McNulty|work=BBC Sport
|title=[http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/18181971 England 1-0 Ukraine]
|passage=The incident immediately revived the debate about goal-line technology, with a final decision on '''whether''' it is introduced expected to be taken in Zurich on 5 July.}}
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2013-07-20|volume=408|issue=8845|magazine={{w|The Economist}}
|title=[http://www.economist.com/news/science-and-technology/http://www.economist.com/news/science-and-technology/21581980-latest-research-suggests-humans-are-not-warriors-their-genes-after-all-old Old soldiers?]
|passage='''Whether''' modern, industrial man is less or more warlike than his hunter-gatherer ancestors is impossible to determine. The machine gun is so much more lethal than the bow and arrow that comparisons are meaningless. One thing that is true, though, is that murder rates have fallen over the centuries, as policing has spread and the routine carrying of weapons has diminished.}}
# {{non-gloss definition|Without a correlative, used to introduce a simple indirect question}}.
#: {{ux|en|Do you know '''whether''' he's coming?}}
# {{non-gloss definition|Used to introduce a disjunctive [[adverbial]] clause which qualifies the main clause of the sentence (with correlative {{term|or}}).}}
#: {{ux|en|He's coming, '''whether''' you like it or not.}}

====Usage notes====
* In traditional grammar, the clauses headed by ''whether'' in senses 2 and 3 are classified as noun clauses, and those headed by ''whether'' in sense 4 are classified as adverbial clauses.
* There is some overlap in usage between senses 2 and 3, in that a yes-or-no interrogative content clause can list the two possibilities explicitly in a number of ways: 
: ''Do you know whether he's coming or staying?''
: ''Do you know whether he's coming or not?''
: ''Do you know whether or not he's coming?''
: Further, in the first two of these examples, the "or staying" and "or not" may be added as an afterthought (sometimes indicated in writing with a comma before), such that the ''whether'' may be uttered in sense 3 and then amended to sense 2.
* The ''or not'' can be placed after ''whether'' or after the verb, although in senses 2 and 3, ''or not'' is not required. 
* Sense 4 does not have a counterpart that introduces only a single possibility and thus requires ''or not'' if no other possibilities are presented. For example, "He's coming, whether you like it" is ungrammatical. Grammatical versions are "He's coming, whether you like it or not" or "He's coming, whether you like it or dislike it".
* The main verb in adverbial clauses with ''whether'' is sometimes in the [[subjunctive]] mood, especially if the verb is ''be''. Furthermore, with ''be'', inversion can occur:
: ''I shall be glad to play any instrument, whether it be a violin or a trumpet.''
: ''I shall be glad to play any instrument, be it a violin or a trumpet.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|introducing indirect questions}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|إِذَا}}, {{t|ar|سَوَاء}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|чы|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|дали|tr=dalí|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: (usually not used), {{t+|cmn|是否|tr=shìfǒu|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zda}}, {{t|cs|zdali}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|of}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĉu}}
* Finnish: [[-ko]] / [[-kö]] (particle appended to the verb)
* French: {{t+|fr|si}}, {{t+|fr|que}}, {{t+|fr|soit}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|se}}
* German: {{t+|de|ob}}
* Greek:
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|πότερον}}, {{t|grc|πότερα}}, {{t|grc|εἰ}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|האם|tr=ha`ím}}, {{t+|he|אם|tr=ím}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|-e}}, {{t+|hu|vajon}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hvort}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|かどうか|tr=...ka dō ka}}, {{t+|ja|か|tr=ka}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|ar}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|xukau}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|дали|tr=dáli}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|om}}, {{t|no|hvorvidt}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|ob}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|se}}, {{t|oc|si}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|که|tr=ka}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|czy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|se|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|dacă}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ли}} {{qualifier|placed after the first word in the sentence or phrase}}
* Scottish Gaelic: (''uses question without any preceding conjunction'')
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|da li}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|si}}, {{t|es|si ... o}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|om}}, {{t+|sv|ifall}}, {{t+|sv|huruvida}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|чи|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|có ... không}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|if, whether or not}}
<!--These example sentence: He chose the correct answer, but whether by luck or by skill I don't know. I do not know whether he comes. -->
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|дали|tr=dalí|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|還是|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|还是|tr=háishi|sc=Hani}}, ...{{t+|cmn|不|tr=...bù...|sc=Hani}} ''(whether or not)''
* Czech: {{t+|cs|zda}}, {{t|cs|zdali}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|of}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ĉu}}
* Finnish: n/a (''different structure is used'')
* German: {{t+|de|ob}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|באם|tr=be`ím}}, {{t+|he|אם|tr=ím}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|-e}}, {{t+|hu|vajon}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hvort}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|か|tr=ka}}, {{t|ja|かどうか|tr=-ka dō ka}}, {{t|ja|か否か|tr=かいなか, -ka ina ka}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|지|tr=-ji}}, {{t|ko|지 어떤지|tr=-ji eotteonji}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Lojban: {{t|jbo|xukau}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|дали|tr=dáli}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|rānei ... rānei}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|enten}}, {{t|no|hvorvidt}}
* Novial: {{t|nov|ob}}
* Pashto: {{t|ps|چې که|tr=če ka}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|czy ... czy}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|se}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|и́ли}}, {{t|ru|и́ли ... и́ли}}
* Scottish Gaelic: (''uses question without any preceding conjunction'')
* Slovak: {{t|sk|či}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|si}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|om}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|dù ... hay}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|oft}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|introducing adverbial clause; no matter whether or not}}
<!-- This example sentence: He's coming, whether you like it or not. -->
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|是否|tr=shìfǒu|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ať}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|om}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|of}}
* French: {{t+|fr|que}}
* German: {{t+|de|ob}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|akár}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|-든지|tr=-deun ji}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: [[дали]]...[[или]] [[не]] (dáli...íli ne)
* Norwegian Bokmål: {{t+|nb|enten}}
* Pashto: {{t+|ps|که|tr=ka}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|quer}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|în orice caz}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ли}} {{qualifier|placed after the first word in the sentence or phrase}}, {{t+|ru|и́ли}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|co-dhiù}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|ya sea}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Indonesian: {{t-check|id|apakah ... atau tidak}}
* Italian: {{t-check|it|che ... no}}, {{t-check|it|se}}
* Lojban: {{t-check|jbo|xukau}}
{{trans-mid}}
* {{ttbc|ro}}: [[ori]]...ori, [[fie]]...[[sau]]
* Slovak: {{t-check|sk|či}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[whethersoever]]
* [[either]]
* [[neither]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|during|several|either|338|whether|city|held|help}}

[[Category:English interrogative pronouns]]
[[Category:English subordinating conjunctions]]

[[cs:whether]]
[[et:whether]]
[[es:whether]]
[[fa:whether]]
[[fr:whether]]
[[ko:whether]]
[[hy:whether]]
[[io:whether]]
[[it:whether]]
[[ku:whether]]
[[li:whether]]
[[jbo:whether]]
[[hu:whether]]
[[mg:whether]]
[[ml:whether]]
[[my:whether]]
[[fj:whether]]
[[nl:whether]]
[[ja:whether]]
[[pl:whether]]
[[pt:whether]]
[[ro:whether]]
[[ru:whether]]
[[simple:whether]]
[[fi:whether]]
[[sv:whether]]
[[ta:whether]]
[[te:whether]]
[[chr:whether]]
[[vi:whether]]
[[zh:whether]]