{{also|WHIP}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|wippen|w(h)ippen|flap violently}}, from {{etyl|dum|en}} {{m|dum|wippen||swing, leap, dance, oscillate}} and {{etyl|gml|en}} {{m|gml|wippe||quick movement}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*wipjan||to move back and forth}}. Some similarity to Sanskrit root {{term|वेपति|वेप्|sc=Deva|shake, flourish|tr=vep|lang=sa}}, {{etyl|la|en}} {{term|vibrō||I shake|lang=la}}. (See Swedish {{term|vippa|lang=sv}} and Danish {{term|vippe||to shake|lang=da}}).

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|wĭp}}, {{IPA|/wɪp/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪp|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-whip.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{enPR|hwĭp}}, {{IPA|/ʍɪp/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[lash]]; a [[pliant]], [[flexible]] instrument, such as a [[rod]] (commonly of [[cane]] or [[rattan]]) or a [[plait]]ed or [[braided]] [[rope]] or [[thong]] (commonly of leather) used to create a sharp "crack" sound for directing or herding animals.
#: ''I had to use the '''whip''' to get the sheep's attention.''
## The same instrument used to strike a person or animal for [[corporal punishment]] or [[torture]].
##: ''Once he ran out of appeals, he knew he would soon feel the sting of the '''whip'''.''
# {{context|hunting|lang=en}} A [[whipper-in]].
#* '''1928''', {{w|Siegfried Sassoon}}, ''Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man'', Penguin 2013, p. 27:
#*: From the far side of the wood came the long shrill screech […] which signifies that one of the '''whips''' has viewed the fox quitting the covert.
# {{context|politics|lang=en}} A member of a [[political]] [[party]] who is in charge of enforcing the party's [[policy|policies]] in [[vote]]s.
#: ''I was going to vote against the bill, but the party '''whip''' came to see me and made it clear I needed to vote for it.''
# Whipped cream.
#: ''Did you want to add some '''whip''' to your coffee, ma'am?''
# {{context|nautical|lang=en}} A [[purchase]] in which one [[block]] is used to gain a 2:1 [[mechanical advantage]].
# {{context|African American Vernacular English|lang=en}} A mode of personal [[motorized]] [[transportation]]; an [[automobile]], all makes and models including [[motorcycles]], excluding public transportation.
#: Come on, let's take my '''whip''' so we can get there in time.
# {{context|roller derby|lang=en}} A move in which one player transfers momentum to another.
# A whipping motion; a thrashing about.
#: ''I was startled by the '''whip''' of the rope when it finally snapped.''
# The quality of being whiplike or flexible; suppleness, as of the shaft of a golf club.
# Any of various pieces that operate with a quick vibratory motion, such as a spring in certain electrical devices for making a circuit, or a rocking certain piano actions.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|last for directing animals}} [[crop]] {{qualifier|especially for horses}}, [[dressage whip]] {{qualifier|especially for horses}}, [[driving whip]] {{qualifier|especially for horses}}, [[jumping bat]] {{qualifier|especially for horses}}, [[flail]], [[knout]], [[lash]], [[quirt]], [[scourge]], [[sjambok]] {{qualifier|South African}}, [[thong]]
* {{sense|lash for corporal punishment}} [[cat]] {{qualifier|nautical}}, <!-- a corporal punishment whip with [[multiple]] "[[tail]]s" commonly used in the [[British]] [[Royal Navy]]. --> [[flail]], [[knout]], [[lash]], [[quirt]], [[scourge]], [[sjambok]] {{qualifier|South African}}, [[thong]]
* {{sense|political party enforcer}} [[party whip]]

====Derived terms====
{{der3|bullock-whip|bullwhip|buggy whip|coachwhip|dogwhip|drafting whip|horsewhip|longe whip|party whip|[[signal whip]], [[signalwhip]]|[[snake whip]], [[snakewhip]]|stockwhip|whipcracking|whip snake|yard whip|lang=en}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|rod or rope}}
* Afrikaans: {{t|af|roer}}, {{t+|af|sweep}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|kamxhik}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|سَوْط|m}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|مشحاطة|f|tr=mšHâTa}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|մտրակ}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|llátigu|m}}
* Azeri: {{t+|az|çubuq}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|বেত|tr=betō|sc=Beng}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|бич|m|tr=bič|sc=Cyrl}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|fuet|m}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|ashpijka'chachi}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鞭子|tr=biānzi|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bič|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|pisk|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zweep}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|vipo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|piitsutama}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|píska}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiska}}, {{t+|fi|ruoska}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fouet|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|შოლტი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Peitsche|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαστίγιο|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|שׁוֹט|m|tr=shot|sc=Hebr}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|चाबुक|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|felhúzókötél}}, {{t+|hu|ostor}}, {{t+|hu|korbács}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|cambuk}}
* Inuktitut: {{t|iu|ᐃᐱᕋᐅᑕᖅ|sc=Cans}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|fuip}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|frusta|f}}, {{t+|it|nerbo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|鞭|tr=[[むち]], muchi|sc=Jpan}}
* Kalmyk: {{t|xal|шилвр}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|채찍|sc=Kore}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|pātaga}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|botagas}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|cambok}}, {{t|ms|cemeti}}
* Malayalam: {{t|ml|ചാട്ട|tr=chaatta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|wepu}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|ташуур|tr=tašuur|sc=Cyrl}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|bee atsxis}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|fouet|m}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|pisk}}
* Old Church Slavonic: {{t|cu|бичь|m|tr=bičĭ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Papiamentu: {{t|pap|zuip}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|شلاق|tr=šallâq|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|تازیانه|tr=tâziyâne}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|bat|m}}, {{t+|pl|bicz|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chicote|m}}, {{t+|pt|açoite|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|bici}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кнут|m}}, {{t+|ru|хлыст|m}}, {{t+|ru|бич|m}}, {{t+|ru|нага́йка|f}}, {{t+|ru|плеть|f}}, {{t+|ru|плётка|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|бич|m}}, {{t|sh|канџија|f}}, {{t|sh|корбач|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|bič|m}}, {{t|sh|kandžija|f}}, {{t|sh|korbač|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|bič|m}}, {{t|sk|korbáč|m}} {{qualifier|wicker whip}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|bič|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|fusta|f}}, {{t+|es|látigo|m}}, {{t+|es|flagelo|m}}
* Sranan Tongo: {{t|srn|krawasi}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|kambaa}} ''(nc 5/6)'', {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|piska|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|latiko}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|కొరడా|tr=koraDA}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|หวด|tr=hùat|sc=Thai}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kamçı}}, {{t+|tr|kırbaç}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|батіг|m|tr=batíh}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|qamcha}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|qamchi}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|roi}}
* Volapük: {{t-needed|vo}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|scoreye|f}}, {{t|wa|corijhe|f}}, {{t+|wa|scordjire}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|chwip}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|swipe}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|בײַטש|f|tr=baytsh|sc=Hebr}}
* Yucatec Maya: {{t|yua|hats'ik}}
* Yup'ik: {{t|esu|kulutaq}}
* ǃXóõ: {{t|nmn|ǁn̥a̰m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|party policy enforcer}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|piiskuri}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aoire|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|inpiskare|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|whipped cream}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|whipp}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[hit]] with a whip.
#: ''The rider '''whipped''' the horse.''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} By extension, to hit with any flexible object.
#: ''I '''whipped''' her with a newspaper.''
# {{context|transitive|slang|lang=en}} To [[defeat]], as in a contest or game.
#* '''2008''', Edward Keating, ''The Joy of Ex: A Novel''
#*: She '''whips''' me in the first game of pool, I do not even get a shot. Eight-balled from the break.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[mix]] in a rapid aerating fashion, especially [[food]].
#: ''to '''whip''' eggs or cream''
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[urge]] into action.
#: ''He whipped the department into shape.''
# {{context|transitive|nautical|lang=en}} To bind the end of a [[rope]] with [[twine]] or other [[small stuff]] to prevent its [[unlay]]ing: [[fraying]] or [[unravel]]ling.
#* Moxon
#*: Its string is firmly '''whipped''' about with small gut.
# {{context|transitive|nautical|lang=en}} To hoist or purchase by means of a whip.
# To [[sew]] lightly; specifically, to form (a fabric) into [[gather]]s by loosely [[overcast]]ing the rolled edge and drawing up the thread.
#: ''to '''whip''' a ruffle''
#* John Gay
#*: In half-'''whipped''' muslin needles useless lie.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[throw]] or [[kick]] an object at a high velocity.
#* ''He '''whipped''' the ball at me.''
#* {{quote-news
|year=2010
|date=December 29
|author=Chris Whyatt
|title=Chelsea 1 - 0 Bolton
|work=BBC
|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/9309542.stm
|page=
|passage=Composed play then saw Sam Ricketts nutmeg Ashley Cole before Taylor '''whipped''' a fine curling effort over Petr Cech's bar.}}
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[fish]] a body of [[water]] especially by making repeated [[cast]]s.
#* Emerson
#*: '''whipping''' their rough surface for a trout
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To snap back and forth like a whip.
#* ''The pennants '''whipped''' in the wind.''
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To move very fast.
#* ''The wind '''whipped''' through the valley.''
#* L'Estrange
#*: Two friends, travelling, met a bear upon the way; the one '''whips''' up a tree, and the other throws himself flat upon the ground.
#* '''1886''', {{w|Robert Louis Stevenson}}, {{w|Strange Case Of Dr Jekyll And Mr Hyde}}
#*: He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry, and '''whipped''' upstairs into the cabinet. It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon my head like quills.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To move (something) very fast; often with ''up'', ''out'', etc.
#* L'Estrange
#*: She, in a hurry, '''whips''' up her darling under her arm.
#* Walpole
#*: He '''whips''' out his pocketbook every moment, and writes descriptions of everything he sees.
# {{context|transitive|roller derby|lang=en}} To transfer momentum from one [[skater]] to another.
# {{context|figurative|lang=en}} To lash with sarcasm, abuse, etc.
#* Shakespeare
#*: They would '''whip''' me with their fine wits.
# To [[thrash]]; to beat out, as [[grain]], by striking.
#: ''to '''whip''' wheat''

====Synonyms====
{{checksense}}
* [[flail]]
* [[flog]]
* [[knout]]
* [[lash]]
* [[quirt]]
* [[scourge]]
* [[thrash]]
* [[thresh]]

====Derived terms====
{{der3|whip in|whip off|whipped vote|whipper|whip up|lang=en}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to hit with a whip}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يجلد بسوط}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|azotar}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|assotar}}, {{t+|ca|fuetejar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|鞭打|tr=biāndǎ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bičovat}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|piske}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|geselen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|vipi}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|ruoskia}}, {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|fouetter}}, {{t+|fr|flageller}}
* German: {{t|de|peitschen}}, {{t+|de|auspeitschen}}, {{t|de|anpeitschen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαστιγώνω}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ostoroz}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|knutagar}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mencambuk}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|failp}}
* Italian: {{t|it|sferzare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|むち打つ|tr=むちうつ, muchiutsu|sc=Jpan}}
* Kalmyk: {{t|xal|шилврдх}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|채찍질하다 |tr=chaejjikjil-hada|sc=Kore}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|wepu}}, {{t|mi|whiu}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|fouetter}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|chicotear}}, {{t+|pt|açoitar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поро́ть}}, {{t+|ru|стега́ть}}, {{t+|ru|сечь}}, {{t+|ru|хлеста́ть}}, {{t+|ru|бичева́ть}}
* Shan: {{t|shn|ၽတ်ႉ|tr=pʰat5}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|azotar}}, {{t+|es|fustigar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|piska}}
* Volapük: {{t-needed|vo}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|chwipio}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|by extension, to hit with any flexible object}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|piske}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|vipi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
* German: {{t|de|peitschen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|μαστιγώνω}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mencambuk}}, {{t+|id|cambuk}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|failp}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|açoitar}}, {{t+|pt|chicotear}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|azotar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|piska}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to defeat}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|piestä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|défaire}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mengalahkan}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|dar una paliza}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to mix food in a rapid aerating fashion}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|šlehat}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|piske}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|vatkata}}, {{t|fi|vispata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|battre}}, {{t+|fr|fouetter}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlagen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|χτυπάω}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mengaduk}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|coip}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakapāhukahuka}}, {{t|mi|kōheriheri}}, {{t|mi|tāwhiuwhiu}}
* Norman: {{t-check|nrf|fouetter}} {{qualifier|Jersey}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|bater}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|batir}}, {{t+|es|montar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vispa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to urge into action}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
* German: {{t|de|anpeitschen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|atosigar}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|mjeledi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|nautical: to bind the end of a rope with twine}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|rihmata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to throw at high velocity}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|paiskata}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|dar velocidad}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fish by making repeated casts}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to snap back and forth like a whip}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}} {{qualifier|transitive structure used in Finnish}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|balas membentak}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|batir}}, {{t|es|ondear}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to move very fast}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|piiskata}} {{qualifier|transitive structure used in Finnish}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|azotar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Esperanto: {{t-check|eo|vipi}}
* Spanish: {{t+check|es|azotar}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[ghost ride the whip]]

===References===
* Samuel Johnson, John Walker, Robert S. Jameson: 1828. A dictionary of the English language 2nd edition. Publisher: William Pickering, 1828. 831 pages. Page 818. Google Public Domain Books : [[http://books.google.com/books?id=z3kKAAAAIAAJ&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false]]

[[Category:en:Occupations]]

[[ar:whip]]
[[bg:whip]]
[[ca:whip]]
[[cs:whip]]
[[cy:whip]]
[[de:whip]]
[[et:whip]]
[[es:whip]]
[[eo:whip]]
[[fa:whip]]
[[fr:whip]]
[[ko:whip]]
[[hy:whip]]
[[io:whip]]
[[id:whip]]
[[it:whip]]
[[kn:whip]]
[[kk:whip]]
[[ku:whip]]
[[li:whip]]
[[hu:whip]]
[[mg:whip]]
[[ml:whip]]
[[my:whip]]
[[nl:whip]]
[[uz:whip]]
[[pl:whip]]
[[ru:whip]]
[[simple:whip]]
[[fi:whip]]
[[sv:whip]]
[[tl:whip]]
[[ta:whip]]
[[te:whip]]
[[chr:whip]]
[[tr:whip]]
[[uk:whip]]
[[vi:whip]]
[[wa:whip]]
[[zh:whip]]