==English==

===Etymology===
{{PIE root|en|kʷ}}
From {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|hwæder}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*hwaz|*hwi-}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|GenAm}} {{IPA|/ˈwɪðɚ/|/ˈʍɪðɚ/|lang=en}}; {{enPR|wĭ''th''ʹər|hwĭ''th''ʹər}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˈwɪðə/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-whither.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɪðə(ɹ)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|wither}} {{qualifier|some accents}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# {{lb|en|archaic|formal|or|literary}} To where.
#* {{quote-book|year=1611|title=King James Bible|section=John 8:14|url=[s:Bible (King James)/John{{!}}Wikisource]|passage=Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true: for I know [[whence]] I came, and '''whither''' I go; but ye cannot tell [[whence]] I come, and '''whither''' I go.}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1883|author=Robert Louis Stevenson|title=Treasure Island|chapter=The Sea-chest|url=[s:Treasure Island/Chapter 4{{!}}Wikisource]|passage=[W]hat greatly encouraged me, it was in an opposite direction from that [[whence]] the blind man had made his appearance and '''whither''' he had presumably returned.}}
#* '''1885''', [[w:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''[[w:The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde|The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde]]'', Penguin Red Classics, paperback edition, page 24
#*: And with the same grave countenance he hurried through his breakfast and drove to the police station, '''whither''' the body had been carried.
#* '''1918''', [[w:Willa Cather|Willa Cather]], ''[[w:My Antonia|My Antonia]]'', Mirado Modern Classics, paperback edition, page 8
#*: The wagon jolted on, carrying me I knew not '''whither'''.

====Usage notes====
* This word is unusual in modern usage; (to) ''[[where]]'' is much more common. It is more often encountered in older works, or when used poetically.
* Do not confuse with ''[[whether]]'' or ''[[wither]]''.
* Compare to the inanimate pronoun "[[whereto]]" which follows the pattern of "preposition + what" or "preposition + which".

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|Terms derived from whither}}
* {{l|en|anywhither}}
* {{l|en|elsewhither}}
* {{l|en|everywhither}}
* {{l|en|nowhither}}
{{rel-mid}}
* {{l|en|somewhither}}
* {{l|en|whitherever}}
* {{l|en|whithersoever}}
* {{l|en|whitherward}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|whence}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|hither}}
* {{l|en|thither}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to which place}}
* Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|ποῖ|sc=polytonic}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|إِلَى أَيْن}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|куды|tr=kudý|sc=Cyrl}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|накъде|tr=nakǎdé}}, {{t|bg|накъдето|tr=nakǎdéto}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|哪兒|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|哪儿|tr=nǎr|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|哪裡|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|哪里|tr=nǎlǐ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|kam}}
* Danish: {{t|da|hvorhen}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|waarheen}}, {{t|nl|werwaarts}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kien}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|hvagar}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|minne}}, {{t+|fi|jonne}}
* French: {{t+|fr|où}}
* German: {{t+|de|wohin}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|לְאָן|tr=leán}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|hová}}, {{t+|hu|hova}}, {{t+|hu|merrefelé}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|hvert}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|どこ|tr=doko-e|alt=どこへ|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|어디}}
* Kriol: {{t|rop|wijei}}
* Latin: {{t+|la|quō}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|kur}}, {{t|lv|kurp}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|каде|tr=káde}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|hvor}}, {{t|nb|hvor hen}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|kor}}, {{t|nn|kvar}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|dokąd}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|aonde}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|încotro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|куда́}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|куда}}, {{t|sh|камо}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|kuda}}, {{t+|sh|kamo}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|kam}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|kam}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|adónde}}, {{t+|es|onde}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vart}}, {{t+|sv|varthän}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|nereye}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|куди|tr=kudý|sc=Cyrl}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|đâu}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|kipladio}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|וווּהין}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete|dialectal}} To [[wuther]].

[[Category:English 2-syllable words]]
[[Category:English interrogative adverbs]]