==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[white]] [[Christmas]]|white Christmases}}

# A [[Christmas Day]] on which there is a ground [[covering]] of [[snow]].
#* '''1905''', [[w:Annie Fellows Johnston|Annie Fellows Johnston]], ''The Little Colonel′s Christmas Vacation'', ch. 8,
#*: “It′s like frozen thistle-down!” she cried. “I hope it will snow all day and all night until everything is covered. I never saw a '''white Christmas'''.”
#* '''1945''' December 31, ''The Big Snow'', ''[[w:Life (magazine)|Life]]'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=_0gEAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA23&dq=%22white+Christmas%22+slice&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wkK7UK_NHYeemQXJroHwDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22white%20Christmas%22%20slice&f=false page 23],
#*: In New York City 10,000 men struggled to clear away the heavy snow which promised New Yorkers their first '''white Christmas''' in 15 years,{{...}}.
#* '''2008''' December 18, David Bruser, “Thanks to more storms, Christmas may be white,” ''Toronto Star'', p. A2,
#*: At Environment Canada, senior climatologist David Phillips′ standard for a '''white Christmas''' calls for at least two centimeters of snow on the ground at 7 a.m. . . . “In England, if a weather guy sees a snowflake, they call it a '''white Christmas'''.” 
# {{Australia|food}} A [[sweet]] food item made from [[dried]] [[fruit]]s and [[nut]]s mixed with [[copha]] or [[white chocolate]] or similar sweet white [[binding]] and allowed to set in a tray to make [[slice]]s.
#* '''2005''' December 12, ''[http://www.abc.net.au/local/recipes/2005/12/12/1528891.htm '''White Christmas''' slice]'' (recipe), ''Australian Broadcasting Corporation - Radio - Mid North Coast New South Wales'', (retrieved 18 Dec. 2008),
#*: Combine rice bubbles, coconut, milk powder, dried fruit and cherries, mix well.
#* '''2006''', R.I.C. Publications, ''An Aussie Christmas'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=GDdpRTMWtC0C&pg=PA46&dq=%22white+Christmas%22+slice&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wkK7UK_NHYeemQXJroHwDQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22white%20Christmas%22%20slice&f=false page 46],
#*: This popular '''white Christmas''' slice has been given an Aussie flavour and named after the sulphur-crested cockatoo.
#* '''2008''', Lee-Ann Holmes, ''Rhymes for big rascals'', R.I.C. Publications, [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=8aIPzaiU70UC&pg=PA74&dq=%22white+Christmas%22+slice&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kmi7ULnKMaaImQWp7YHwCg&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=%22white%20Christmas%22%20slice&f=false page 74],
#*: Describe the changes Copha<sup>TM</sup> (a shortening agent derived from coconut flesh) makes to the mixture when making '''White Christmas''' slice.
#* '''2011''', Sally Wise, ''Leftover Makeovers: Quick and Fabulous Food From Your Fridge and Pantry'', [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=ykWn4QH45k4C&pg=PT72&dq=%22white+Christmas+slice%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=g227UK2rJujDmQW0moHIAQ&redir_esc=y unnumbered page],
#*: This version is richer and creamier than regular '''White Christmas''' slice.

[[Category:en:Christmas]]
[[Category:en:Sweets]]

[[fi:white Christmas]]