==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From {{m|en|white|}} + {{m|en|wash|}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈwaɪtwɒʃ/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|aɪtwɒʃ|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[lime]] and [[water]] [[mixture]] for [[painting]] walls and [[fence]]s [[bright]] [[white]].
#* '''1952''', L. F. Salzman, ''Building in England'', page 157:
#*: For walls plaster gave a smooth white surface; or if it was not sufficiently white, or had become discoloured, it could be brightened up with a coat of whitewash or paint.
# {{label|en|sports}} A complete [[victory]] or series of victories without suffering any [[loss]]es; a [[clean sweep]].
#* '''2010''', Andrew Miller, ''Cricinfo'':
#*: For the first time in a long time, Australia are being threatened with the prospect of a 5-0 '''whitewash'''
# {{label|en|obsolete}} Any liquid composition for [[whiten]]ing something, such as a wash for making the skin fair.
#: {{rfquotek|Addison}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|lime and water mixture}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|blanquejat|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|witkalk}}
* French: {{t+|fr|lait de chaux}}, {{t+|fr|badigeon|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Tünche|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ασβεστόνερο|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|calce|f}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|известко́вый раство́р|m}}, {{t+|ru|побе́лка|f}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|apog na pampinta}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|badana}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|victory}}
* German: {{t|de|Zu-null-Sieg|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cappotto|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t-check|sh|belilo|n}}, {{t-check|sh|kreč|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|es}}

# To paint over with a lime and water mixture so as to brighten up a wall or fence.
#: ''The houses looked very bright when they '''whitewashed''' the whole neighborhood''.
# {{label|en|idiomatic}} To cover over errors or bad actions.
#: ''In his sermon, the minister didn't try to '''whitewash''' over the sins of his church''.
# {{label|en|dated|transitive}} To [[repay]] the [[financial]] [[debt]]s of (another person).
#* {{Q|en|Dickens|The Pickwick Papers|43|quote=Meanwhile, Sam, having been formally introduced to the '''whitewashed''' gentleman and his friends, as the offspring of Mr. Weller, of the Belle Savage, was treated with marked distinction, and invited to regale himself with them in honour of the occasion—an invitation which he was by no means backward in accepting.}}
# {{label|en|baseball|slang|dated|late|19th century|archaic}} To prevent a team from scoring any runs.
# {{label|en|US|UK|slang}} In various games, to defeat (an opponent) so that they fail to score, or to reach a certain point in the game; to [[skunk]].
# {{label|en|acting}} To choose [[white]] film or television actors to portray characters that were Asian, African, or other races.
# {{label|en|pejorative}} To [[make over]] (an Asian, African, or person of another race, especially a woman) to look Caucasian.
# {{label|en|pejorative}} To use the features of the Caucasian ethnic group as a standard of beauty.
# {{label|en|pejorative}} To cover over the history or nature of (an event, etc) in which [[people of colour]] participated, so as to focus on only [[white]] participation in it; to rewrite (history) in a way that erases the contribution of people of colour.
#: <!--not durable and so doesn't count towards ATTEST, but is acceptable as a good illustration of use-->''[//www.huffingtonpost.com/ernest-owens/hollywood-dont-you-dare-w_b_7946860.html Hollywood, Don't You Dare Whitewash Stonewall]''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|paint}}
* French: {{t+|fr|badigeonner}}
* German: {{l|de|etwas}} {{l|de|weiß}} {{t+|de|anstreichen}}, {{t+|de|weißen}}, {{t+|de|weißeln}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ασπρίζω}}, {{t+|el|ασβεστώνω}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|meszel}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aol}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|imbiancare}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|hvitkalke}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|caiar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|бели́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|побели́ть|pf}}
* Sardinian:
*: Campidanese: {{t|sc|candéssiri}}, {{t|sc|scandèssiri}}, {{t|sc|imbarchinài}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|blanquear}}, {{t+|es|encalar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vitmena}}
* Turkish: {{l|tr|beyaza}} {{t+|tr|badanalamak}}/{{t+|tr|boyamak}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{trans-top|cover errors}}
* French: {{t+|fr|blanchir}}
* German: {{qualifier|sb.}} {{l|de|jemanden}} {{t+|de|reinwaschen}}, {{qualifier|sth.}} {{l|de|etwas}} {{t|de|schönfärben}}, {{qualifier|sth.}} {{l|de|etwas}} {{t+|de|beschönigen}}
* Greek: {{t|el|καλύπτω λάθη}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|tisztára mos}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|velizar}}
* Italian: {{t|it|lavare via}}, {{t+|it|cancellare}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t|nb|hvitvaske}}, {{t|nb|kvitvaske}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|kvitvaske}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|encobrir}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|обели́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|encubrir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vitmena}}
* Turkish: {{qualifier|sb.}} {{t+|tr|aklamak}}, {{qualifier|sth.}} {{t+|tr|temize çıkarmak}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|witten}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Related terms===
* {{l|en|bluewash}}
* {{l|en|greenwash}}
* {{l|en|pinkwash}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|blackwash}}

[[ca:whitewash]]
[[cy:whitewash]]
[[et:whitewash]]
[[es:whitewash]]
[[fa:whitewash]]
[[fr:whitewash]]
[[hy:whitewash]]
[[io:whitewash]]
[[kn:whitewash]]
[[ku:whitewash]]
[[hu:whitewash]]
[[mg:whitewash]]
[[ml:whitewash]]
[[my:whitewash]]
[[pl:whitewash]]
[[simple:whitewash]]
[[fi:whitewash]]
[[ta:whitewash]]
[[te:whitewash]]
[[vi:whitewash]]
[[zh:whitewash]]