==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Alternative forms===
* [[whome]] {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang}} ''[[hwam]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/huːm/}}, {{SAMPA|/hu:m/}}
* {{audio|en-us-whom.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Pronoun===
{{en-pron|the singular and plural [[objective case]] of|who}}

# {{context|formal}} What person or people; which person or people, as the object of a verb.
#: '''''Whom''' did you ask?''
#* {{RQ:Wodehouse Offing|XVIII|“Oh?” she said. “So you have decided to revise my guest list for me? You have the nerve, the – the –” I saw she needed helping out. “Audacity,” I said, throwing her the line. “The audacity to dictate to me who I shall have in my house.” It should have been “'''whom'''”, but I let it go. “You have the –” “Crust.” “– the immortal rind,” she amended, and I had to admit it was stronger, “to tell me '''whom'''” – she got it right that time – “I may entertain at Brinkley Court and who” – wrong again – “I may not.”}}
# {{context|formal}} What person or people; which person or people, as the object of a preposition.
#: ''To '''whom''' are you referring?''
#: ''With '''whom''' were you talking?''
#* {{RQ:Wodehouse Offing|I|“A very hearty pip-pip to you, old ancestor,” I said, well pleased, for she is a woman with '''whom''' it is always a privilege to chew the fat. “And a rousing toodle-oo to you, you young blot on the landscape,” she replied cordially.}}
# Him; her; them (used as a [[relative pronoun]] to refer to a previously mentioned person or people.)
#: ''He's a person with '''whom''' I work.''
#: ''We have ten employees, half of '''whom''' are carpenters.''
#* {{RQ:Wodehouse Offing|I|The eminent brain specialist to '''whom''' she alluded was a man I would not have cared to lunch with myself, our relations having been on the stiff side since the night at Lady Wickham's place in Hertfordshire when, acting on the advice of my hostess's daughter Roberta, I had punctured his hot-water bottle with a darning needle in the small hours of the morning. Quite unintentional, of course.}}

====Usage notes====
''whom'' is only used as an object, whereas ''who'' is always used where a subject is required.  In other words, ''whom'' may be thought of as being similar to ''us'', ''them'', etc, whereas ''who'' may be thought of as being similar to ''we'', ''they'', etc.

However, in both spoken and most written language, ''who'' is also often used as an object in place of ''whom''. This makes ''who'' similar to ''you'' and ''it'' which also use the same form for subjects and objects.

Some [[prescriptivist]]s regard such usage as incorrect, and insist on using ''whom'' to maintain a distinction between subjects and objects.  This makes the distinction between ''who'' and ''whom'' similar to the distinction between ''we'' and ''us'', or between ''they'' and ''them''.

To some speakers (especially in US English), the use of ''whom'' is characteristic of a formal style.  To some of these speakers, ''whom'' may sound [[stilted]] in informal conversation. ''Whom'' is more common in UK English, particularly after a [[preposition]] (''with whom'', ''from whom'', etc).

{{rel-top|Usage examples}}

Subject (always ''who''):
: '''''Who''' ate my sandwich?''
: ''There is the thief '''who''' ate my sandwich.''
:: i.e. '''''The thief''' ate my sandwich.''

Direct Object:
: '''''Who(m)''' did you see?''
: ''I saw an old friend '''who(m)''' I had not seen for years.''
:: i.e. ''I saw '''an old friend'''.''

Indirect Object:
: '''''Who(m)''' are you giving your apple to?''
: ''She is the angel '''who(m)''' I'm giving my apple to.''
:: or
: ''To '''whom''' are you giving your apple?'' (fronted prepositional phrase, almost always ''whom'')
: ''She is the angel to '''whom''' I'm giving my apple.''
:: i.e. ''I'm giving my apple to '''her'''.''
{{rel-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top}}
* [[to whom it may concern]]
* [[to whom this may concern]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[whomever]]
* [[whom're]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|what person; object of a verb (accusative)}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[wie]]
* Armenian: [[ում]] (um)
* Czech: {{t|cs|komu}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|hvem}}
* Esperanto: [[kiu]]n, [[kiu]]jn
* Finnish: {{t|fi|joka}}, {{t|fi|jonka}}
* French: {{t+|fr|qui}}
* German: {{t+|de|wem}}, {{t+|de|wen}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|kimoun}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|किस|tr=kis|sc=Deva}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|chi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|quem|m}}, {{t|la|quam|f}}
* [[Mari]]: [[кӧм]]
* Portuguese: {{t-|pt|o que}}, {{qualifier|for nonhumans}} {{t-|pt|o quê}}, {{qualifier|for humans}} {{t+|pt|quem}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кого|tr=kogó}} (''read:'' kovó), {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кому|tr=komú}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кем|tr=kem}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=ком|tr=kom}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|quién}}, {{t-|es|quiénes}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vem|s}}, {{t+|sv|vilka|p}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|kimi}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|pwy}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|what person or people, object of a preposition (dative)}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[met]] [[wie]], [[van]] [[wie]], etc.
* Armenian: [[ում]] (um)
* Danish: {{t+|da|hvem}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kiu|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t+|eo|kiu|alt=kiuj|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t+|eo|kiu|alt=kiun|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t+|eo|kiu|alt=kiujn|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|qui}}
* German: {{t+|de|wem}}, {{t+|de|wen}}
* [[Haitian Creole]]: {{tø|ht|kimoun}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|chi}}
* Latin: {{t|la|cui}}
* Portuguese: [[o que]], [[o quê]] (for nonhumans), [[quem]] (for humans)
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кого|tr=kogó}} (''read:'' kovó), {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кому|tr=komú}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кем|tr=kem}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=ком|tr=kom}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|quién}}, {{t-|es|quiénes}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vem|s}}, {{t+|sv|vilka|p}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|kime}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|relative pronoun}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[waarmee]], [[waarvan]], etc.
* Armenian: [[ում]] (um)
* Danish: {{t+|da|hvem}}, {{t-|da|hvilken}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|kiu|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|kiuj|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|kiun|xs=Esperanto}}, {{t-|eo|kiujn|xs=Esperanto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|qui}}
* German: {{t+|de|dem|m}}, {{t+|de|der|f}}, {{t+|de|den|m}}, {{t+|de|die|f}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|जिस|tr=jis|sc=Deva}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|cui}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|quam|f}}, {{t|la|quem|m}}, {{t|la|quod|n}}, {{t|la| cui|tr=dative}}
* Portuguese: [[quem]] (for human beings), [[que]], [[o qual]] {{m}}, [[a qual]] {{f}}, [[os quais]] {{p}}, [[as quais]] {{f|p}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кого|tr=kogó}} (''read:'' kovó), {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кому|tr=komú}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=кем|tr=kem}}, {{t+|ru|кто|alt=ком|tr=kom}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|quien}}, {{t-|es|quienes}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vilken|s}}, {{t+|sv|vilka|p}}, {{t|sv|som}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|y}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|sh}}: [[koga]] (1); [[s kim]] {{m}}, [[s kojom]] {{f}}, [[s kojim]] {{m}} (1: with whom); [[kome]] {{m}}, [[kojem]] {{m}}, [[kojoj]] {{f}}, [[kojim]] {{m}} (2: to whom, about whom)
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[die]] (1), [[wie]] (1), [[waarmee]] (2), [[waarvan]] (2), [[waaronder]] (2)
* {{ttbc|id}}: [[yang]], [[yang]] [[mana]]
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[qui]]
* {{ttbc|sh}}:
*: Cyrillic: [[кога]] (1); [[с ким]] {{m}}, [[с којом]] {{f}}, [[с којим]] {{m}} (1: with whom); [[коме]] {{m}}, [[којем]] {{m}}, [[којој]] {{f}}, [[којим]] {{m}} (2: to whom, about whom)
*: Roman: [[koga]] (1); [[s kim]] {{m}}, [[s kojom]] {{f}}, [[s kojim]] {{m}} (1: with whom); [[kome]] {{m}}, [[kojem]] {{m}}, [[kojoj]] {{f}}, [[kojim]] {{m}} (2: to whom, about whom)

===Statistics===
* {{rank|tell|because|few|178|whom|love|far|seemed}}

[[Category:English interrogative pronouns]]
[[Category:English relative pronouns]]

[[et:whom]]
[[es:whom]]
[[fa:whom]]
[[fr:whom]]
[[ko:whom]]
[[hr:whom]]
[[io:whom]]
[[it:whom]]
[[ku:whom]]
[[hu:whom]]
[[mg:whom]]
[[ml:whom]]
[[my:whom]]
[[ja:whom]]
[[pl:whom]]
[[simple:whom]]
[[fi:whom]]
[[sv:whom]]
[[ta:whom]]
[[te:whom]]
[[tr:whom]]
[[zh:whom]]