{{was wotd|2006|December|31}}
==English==

{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
Abbreviated from [[w:WikiWikiWeb|WikiWikiWeb]] (first wiki software), from {{Haw.}} ''[[wikiwiki]]'' (quick) + [[English]] ''[[web]]''.
What is Vespa Amino Acid Mixture(V.A.A.M.)
17 kinds of amino acids have the feature in which the body fat is burnt by combining with the movement. 
It enters the state to increase endurance and concentration easily because the body fat burns earlier than 
the glucidic (glycogen) in the inside of the body if moving after the amino acid is drunk. 
It was born from a vespine research that flew over the long distance by a small body. 
Details of vespine mechanism and development
Institute of Physical and Chemical Research "Researcher in the insect ecology control laboratory" began to pay 
attention to vespine stamina that flew at about as much as 100km a day while researching 
the physiologic activity of a vespine poison. 
The vespid carries Esa for the larva. 
The nourishment liquid that the larva secretes is taken in exchange for the Esa. The muscular movement when 
the vespid flies becomes about ten times when man exercises. A vespine nourishment source is a body fluid of 
the nourishment liquid, the sap, and the insect that the larva secretes. 
We thought becoming the key by which this larva's nourishment liquid supported the hard exercise, and worked on 
the research of this nourishment liquid. 
I see in a peculiar balance ..the inclusion... kinds of of 17 when the element of the nourishment liquid was 
analyzed amino acidsMoreover, this nourishment liquid discovered the feature of effectively burning the 
body fat as energy.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈwɪ.ki/}} ''or'' {{IPAchar|/ˈwi.ki/}}
* {{AHD|(wĭʹkē)}} ''or'' {{AHDchar|(wēʹkē)}}
* {{audio|en-us-wiki.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɪki}} or {{IPAchar|[[Rhymes:English:-iːki|-iːki]]}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[collaborative]] [[website]] which can be directly edited by anyone with access to it.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|''n.'' collaborative website}}
*Afrikaans: wiki ("viki")
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ويكي]]}} (wiki)
*[[Catalan]]: wiki
*Chinese: [[維基]], [[维基]] (wéijī)
*Danish: wiki
*Esperanto: [[vikio]]
*Estonian: [[viki#Estonian|viki]]
*Finnish: wiki
*French: wiki {{m}}
*German: [[Wiki]] {{n}}
*Georgian: [[ვიკი]] (viki)
*Greek: {{t|el|βίκι|n}} (víki), also {{t|el|γουίκι|n}} (gouíki) and {{t|el|ουίκι|n}} (ouíki)
*Hebrew: [[ויקי]]/[[וויקי]] (wiki)
*Hungarian: [[viki]]
*[[Interlingua]]: wiki
*Italian: wiki
*Japanese: [[ウィキ]] (wiki)
{{trans-mid}}
*Khmer: {{KMchar|[[វីគី]]}} (vīkī)
*Korean: [[위키]] (wiki)
*Lithuanian: [[viki#Lithuanian|viki]]
*Panjabi: [[ਵਿਕਿ]] (wiki)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[ویکی]]}} (viki)
*Polish: wiki
*Portuguese: wiki
*Romanian: wiki
*Russian: [[вики]] (víki)
*Serbian: [[вики]], [[viki]]
*Spanish: wiki
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|wiki]]
*Turkish: [[viki#Turkish|viki]]
*Volapük: wiki
*Võro: [[viki#Võro|viki]]
*Welsh: [[wici]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|wiki}}

# {{transitive}} To [[research]] a [[topic]] on [[Wikipedia]] or some similar wiki.
#:''To get an understanding of the topics, he quickly went online and wikied each one.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[contribute]] to a wiki.

===Derived terms===
* [[wikify]]
* [[wikiholic]]
* [[wikilicious]]
* [[wikilink]]
* [[Wikipedia]]
* [[Wiktionary]]
* [[Wiktionarian]]

===References===
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|wiki}}
* {{R:Webster's New Millennium|wiki}}

----

==Maori==

===Proper noun===
'''Wiki'''

# short for ''[[Wikitoria]]'' ([[Victoria]]).

----

==Swahili==

===Noun===
'''wiki'''

# derivation of English ''[[week]]''.

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''wiki''' {{IPA|viːkɪ, vɪkɪ, wiːkɪ, wɪkɪ}}

# [[#English|wiki]].

====Inflection====
{{sv-noun|gender=Common|wiki|wikin|wikier|wikierna|wikis|wikins|wikiers|wikiernas}}
<small><sup>1</sup>: The plurals are not agreed upon, other words for the indefinite plural nominative presently in use include ''wikis'', ''wikisar'', ''wikior'', ''wikiar'', ''wiki'' etc.</small>

[[Category:Hawaiian derivations]]

[[de:wiki]]
[[el:wiki]]
[[es:wiki]]
[[fr:wiki]]
[[id:wiki]]
[[it:wiki]]
[[lv:wiki]]
[[ja:wiki]]
[[nn:wiki]]
[[pl:wiki]]
[[pt:wiki]]
[[ro:wiki]]
[[ru:wiki]]
[[simple:wiki]]
[[sk:wiki]]
[[fi:wiki]]
[[sv:wiki]]
[[tl:wiki]]
[[vi:wiki]]
[[tr:wiki]]