{{also|Will}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|Will|mul=Shall and will}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/wɪl/|[wɪɫ]}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-will.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪl|s=1}}

===Etymology 1===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*welh₁-}}
From {{inh|en|enm|willen}}, {{m|enm|wullen}}, {{m|enm|wollen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|willan||to want}}, from {{inh|en|gmw-pro|*willjan}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*wiljaną}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*welh₁-||to choose, wish}}.

Cognate with {{cog|nl|willen}}, {{cog|nds|willen}}, {{cog|de|wollen}}, {{cog|sv|-}} and {{cog|nn|vilja}}, {{cog|nb|ville}}, {{cog|la|velle||wish|pos=verb}} and {{cog|sq|vel||to satisfy, be stuffed}}. The verb is not always distinguishable from Etymology 3, below.

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|en|'ll||contraction}}
* {{alter|en|vill|weel||pronunciation spelling}}
* {{alter|en|wil|wille|woll|wyll||obsolete}}

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb|third-person singular simple present|will|present participle|willing|simple past|would|no past participle}}

# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} {{non-gloss definition|Used to express the future tense, sometimes with some implication of [[volition]] when used in the first person. Compare {{m|en|shall}}.}} {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|One of our salesmen '''will''' visit you tomorrow.}}
#: {{ux|en|I '''''will''''' pass this exam.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Twelfth Night|IV|text=Good fool, as ever thou '''wilt''' deserve well at my hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper : as I am a gentleman, I '''will''' live to be thankful to thee for’t.}}
#* '{{RQ:Dickens Tale of Two Cities|passage=“I '''will''', with your leave, relate to you, miss, the story of one of our customers.”|4}}
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} To be able to, to have the capacity to. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|Unfortunately, only one of these gloves '''will''' actually fit over my hand.}}
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} {{non-gloss definition|Expressing a present tense with some conditional or subjective weakening: "will turn out to", "must by inference".}} {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#: ''He '''will''' be home by now. He always gets home before 6 o'clock.''
#: I can't find my umbrella. ''I '''will''' have forgotten it home this morning.''
#* '''2007''', Edward Jesko, ''The Polish'':
#*: “That '''will''' be five zloty.” I reached into my pocket and came up with some coins.
#* '''2012''', Penny Freedman, ''All The Daughters'':
#*: Unless she diverted on the ten minute walk home, she'''’ll''' have got home at about half past.
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} To [[habitually]] do (a given action). {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#: ''Boys '''will''' be boys.''
#* '''1994''', Nelson Mandela, ''Long Walk to Freedom'', Abacus 2010, page 28:
#*: As young men '''will''', I did my best to appear suave and sophisticated.
#* '''2009''', Stephen Bayley, ''The Telegraph'', 24 Sep 09:
#*: How telling is it that many women '''will''' volunteer for temporary disablement by wearing high heeled shoes that hobble them?
#* '''2011''', "Connubial bliss in America", ''The Economist'':
#*: So far neither side has scored a decisive victory, though each '''will''' occasionally claim one.
# {{lb|en|auxiliary}} To [[choose]] or [[agree]] to (do something); {{ngd|used to express intention but without any temporal connotations (+ bare infinitive), often in questions and negation}}. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|'''Will''' you marry me?}}
#: {{ux|en|I’ve told him three times, but he '''won’t''' take his medicine.}}
# {{lb|en|now|uncommon|or|literary|transitive}} To [[wish]], [[desire]] (something). {{defdate|chiefly 9th|19th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|Do what you '''will'''.}}
#* '''c. 1450''', ''The Macro Plays'':
#*: If thou '''wilt''' fare well at meat and meal, come and follow me.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1601|author=William Shakespeare|title=Twelfth Night, or What You Will|passage=''Twelfe Night, Or what you '''will''''' (original spelling)}}
#* {{RQ:KJV|Matthew|8|2|text=And behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord if thou '''wilt''', thou canst make me clean.}}
#* '''1944''', FJ Sheed, translating St. Augustine, ''Confessions'':
#*: Grant what Thou dost command, and command what Thou '''wilt'''.
# {{lb|en|now|rare|intransitive}} To wish or desire (that something happen); to [[intend]] (that). {{defdate|9th|19th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Tyndale NT|Matthew|XXVI|text=the disciples cam to Jesus sayinge unto hym: where '''wylt''' thou that we prepare for the to eate the ester lambe?}}
#* {{RQ:Burton Melancholy|text=see God's goodwill toward men, hear how generally his grace is proposed, to him, and him, and them, each man in particular, and to all. 1 Tim. ii. 4. "God '''will''' that all men be saved, and come to the knowledge of the truth."}}
# {{lb|en|archaic}} Implying ''will go''.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Macbeth|text=I’'''ll''' to England.}}

=====Usage notes=====
* Historically, '''will''' was used in the simple future sense only in the second and third person, while ''shall'' was used in the first person. Today, that distinction is almost entirely lost, and the verb takes the same form in all persons and both numbers. Similarly, in the intent sense, '''will''' was historically used with the second and third person, while ''shall'' was reserved for the first person.
* The present tense is '''will''' and the past tense is '''[[would]]'''. Early Modern English had a past participle '''[[would]]''' which is now obsolete.
*: Malory: ‘Many tymes he myghte haue had her and he had wold’. John Done: ‘If hee had would, hee might easily [...] occupied the Monarchy.’
* Formerly, '''will''' could be used elliptically for "will go" &mdash; e.g. "I'll to her lodgings" (Marlowe).
* See the usage note at '''[[shall]]'''.
* The present participle does not apply to the uses of '''will''' as an auxiliary verb.
* The form of '''will''' with the enclitic {{m|en|-n’t}} (or the present tense negative form of ''will'' in the analysis in which {{m|en|-n’t}} is an inflectional suffix) is {{m|en|won’t||will not}} (rather than the form that would be expected based on a regular application of ''-n't'', {{m|en|willn’t}}), while the corresponding form of the past tense ''would'' is {{m|en|wouldn’t}}.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top-see|to wish or desire|wish#Verb|desire#Verb}}
* Ancient Greek: {{t|grc|ἐθέλω}}, {{t|grc|θέλω}} {{qualifier|later}}, {{t|grc|βούλομαι}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|ցանկանալ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|искам}}, {{t+|bg|желая}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|desitjar}}
* Cornish: {{t|kw|mynnes}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|willen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|voli}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|aikoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vouloir}}
* German: {{t+|de|wollen}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|akar}}, {{t+|hu|kíván}}, {{t+|hu|óhajt}}, {{t+|hu|rendel}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|volere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|望む|tr=のぞむ, nozomu}}, {{t+|ja|希望|tr=きぼうする, kibō suru|alt=希望する}}, {{t+|ja|願う|tr=ねがう, negau}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|посакува|impf}}, {{t|mk|посака|pf}}, {{t|mk|пожелува|impf}}, {{t|mk|пожели|pf}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ville}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|desejar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|жела́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|пожела́ть|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|desear}}, {{t+|es|anhelar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vilja}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|istek}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicating future action}}
* American Sign Language: {{t|ase|OpenB@NearSideNosehigh-FingerUp OpenB@SideNosehigh-FingerForward}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|سَوْفَ}} + ''present tense'', {{t+|ar|سَـ}} + ''present tense''
*: Egyptian Arabic: ''prefix'' {{t|arz|ح|alt=حـ|tr=ḥa-}} + ''present tense''
*: North Levantine Arabic: {{t|apc|رح|tr=raḥ}}
*: Tunisian Arabic: {{t|aeb|باش|tr=bēš}}
* Belarusian: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|be|быць}} + imperfective infinitive''
* Belizean Creole: {{t|bzj|wahn}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|ще}} {{qualifier|+ present form}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|နောင်}}, {{t+|my|မည်}}, {{t+|my|အံ့}}
* Chinese:
*: Cantonese: {{t|yue|會}}, {{t|yue|会|tr=wui5, wui3}}
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|將}}, {{t+|cmn|将|tr=jiāng}}, {{t+|cmn|要|tr=yào}}, {{t+|cmn|將要}}, {{t+|cmn|将要|tr=jiāngyào}}, {{t+|cmn|會}}, {{t+|cmn|会|tr=huì}}
* Czech: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|cs|být}} + imperfective infinitive''
* Danish: {{t|da|vil}}, {{t+|da|skal}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zullen}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|-os}} ''Use the future tense''
* Finnish: ''Use the present tense'', {{t+|fi|tulla}}, {{t+|fi|aikoa}}
* French: ''Use the future tense'' {{t|fr|-erai|alt=-rai, -ras, -ra, -rons, -rez, -ront}}, e.g. ''J’i'''rai''' au magasin.''; {{qualifier|colloquial}} {{t+|fr|aller}}
* German: {{t+|de|werden}}, ''present tense form is often used''
* Greek: ''Use [[θα]] + subjunctive verb form ([[future simple]]) or present verb form ([[future]] [[continuous]] e.g. [[θα]] [[δω]] or [[θα]] [[βλέπω]] ''
*: Ancient: ''Use the future tense''
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|עָתִיד|m|tr='atíd}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|होंगे}} (hoṅge)
* Hungarian: {{q|emphatically, cf. "going to"}} {{t+|hu|fog}}, {{q|the present tense may suffice when the meaning is clear}}
* Ido: ''suffix'' {{t|io|-os}} ''after verbal roots''
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|akan}}
* Italian: ''Use the future tense'' {{t|it|-erò|alt=-rò, -rai, -rà, -remo, -rete, -ranno}}, e.g. ''And'''rò''' al negozio.''
* Japanese: ''present/future tense form is usually used''
* Khmer: {{t+|km|នឹង}} {{qualifier|prefix}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|ᆯ 것이다}}, {{t|ko|ᆯ게}}
* Lao: {{t|lo|ຈະ}}, {{t|lo|ຈິ}}, {{t|lo|ຊິ}}, {{t|lo|ຈັກ}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}
* Latin: ''Use the future tense''
* Lithuanian: ''Use the future tense''
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|wäerten}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|ќе}} {{qualifier|+ present form}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|akan}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|dooleeł}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vil}}, {{t|nb|kommer til å}}, {{t+|nb|skal}}
* Old English: ''Use the present tense''; {{qualifier|more rarely}} {{t+|ang|willan}}, {{t|ang|sċulan}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|خواستن|tr=xâstan}}
* Polish: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|pl|być}} + imperfective infinitive''
* Portuguese: ''Use the future tense''; {{qualifier|colloquial}} ''use present indicative forms of {{t+|pt|ir}}''
* Russian: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|ru|быть}} + imperfective infinitive''
*: ''I will be going back and forth to the post office'' — Я [[быть|буду]] [[ходить|ходи́ть]] на по́чту
*: ''I will be going to the post office'' — Я [[быть|бу́ду]] [[идти|идти́]] на по́чту
*: ''I will go to the post office'' — Я [[пойти|пойду́]] на по́чту
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|хтети}}, {{t|sh|хтјети}}
*: Roman: {{t|sh|hteti}}, {{t+|sh|htjeti}}
* Slovak: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|sk|byť}} + imperfective infinitive''
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|biti}}
* Spanish: future tense, {{t|es|ir a}}
* Swahili: {{t|sw|-ta-}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|komma till att}}, {{t|sv|komma att}}, {{t+|sv|skola}}, {{t+|sv|vilja}}, {{t+|sv|tänka}}
*: ''I will go to the store'' — ''Jag ska gå till affären'' or ''Jag kommer att gå till affären''
* Thai: {{t+|th|จะ}}
* Turkish: (2): suffix for all verbs: [[-ecek]] (if the last vowel of a verb is e,i,ö or ü) or [[-acak]] (if the vowel is a,ı,o or u).
* Ukrainian: ''Use the future perfective'' or ''use the future of {{l|uk|бу́ти}} + imperfective infinitive''; special endings, e.g. "I will walk": {{lang|uk|ходи́тиму}} ({{l|uk|ходи́ти}} + {{lang|uk|иму}})
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|sẽ}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|sille}}, {{t+|fy|gean}}
* Yapese: {{t|yap|ra}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|וועלן}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====See also=====
* [[Appendix:English modal verbs]]
* [[Appendix:English tag questions]]

===Etymology 2===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*welh₁-}}
From {{inh|en|enm|wille}}, from {{inh|en|ang|willa}} (compare verb {{m|ang|willian}}), from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*wiljô||desire, will}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*welh₁-||to choose, wish}}. Cognate with {{cog|nl|wil}}, {{cog|de|Wille}}, {{cog|sv|vilja}}, {{cog|no|vilje}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{alt|en|wille||obsolete}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# One's independent faculty of [[choice]]; the ability to be able to exercise one's [[choice]] or [[intention]]. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|Of course, man's '''will''' is often regulated by his reason.}}
# The act of [[choosing]] to do something; a person’s conscious [[intent]] or [[volition]]. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|Most creatures have a '''will''' to live.}}
#* {{quote-journal
|en
|date=May 27, 2012
|author=Nathan Rabin
|title=TV: Review: THE SIMPSONS (CLASSIC): “New Kid On The Block” (season 4, episode 8; originally aired 11/12/1992)
|work=The Onion AV Club
|url=http://www.avclub.com/articles/new-kid-on-the-block,75341/
|page=
|passage=The episode’s unwillingness to fully commit to the pathos of the Bart-and-Laura subplot is all the more frustrating considering its laugh quota is more than filled by a rollicking B-story that finds Homer, he of the iron stomach and insatiable appetite, filing a lawsuit against The Frying Dutchman when he’s hauled out of the eatery against his '''will''' after consuming all of the restaurant’s shrimp (plus two plastic lobsters).}}
# One's [[intention]] or [[decision]]; someone's orders or commands. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|Eventually I submitted to my parents' '''will'''.}}
# [[firmity|Firmity]] of [[purpose]], [[fixity]] of [[intent]]
#: {{syn|en|determination|firmness|resoluteness|resolve}}
#* {{Q|en|John Skorupski|, Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy|, Mill, John Stuart (1806–73)|year=1998|quote=Thus Mill’s case for the claim that happiness is the sole human end, put more carefully, is this: ‘Whatever is desired otherwise than as a means to some end beyond itself, and ultimately to happiness, is desired as itself a part of happiness, and is not desired for itself until has become so’ (1861a: 237). Nothing here assumed Hume’s view that every action must ultimately flow from an underived desire. That is a quite separate issue, and Mill’s view of it is closer to that of Kant or Reid than to that of Hume. He insists ‘positively and emphatically’ that ''the '''will''' is a different thing from desire''; that a person of confirmed virtue, or any other person whose ''purposes are fixed'', carries out his purposes without any thought of the pleasure he has in contemplating them, or expects to derive from their fulfilment. (1861a: 238) ''This distinction between purpose and desire is central to Mill’s conception of the '''will'''. When we develop purposes we can will against mere likings or aversions'': ‘In the case of an habitual purpose, instead of willing the thing because we desire it, we often desire it only because we will it’ (1861a: 238). Every action is caused by a motive, but not every motive is a liking or aversion: When the will is said to be determined by motives, a motive does not mean always, or solely, the anticipation of a pleasure or of a pain…. ''A habit of willing is commonly called a purpose''; and among the causes of our volitions, and of the actions which flow from them, must be reckoned not only likings and aversions, but also purposes. (1843: 842) ''The formation of purposes from desires is the evolution of '''will'''; it is also the development of character''. Mill quotes Novalis: ‘a character is a completely fashioned will’ (1843: 843).}}
#* {{Q|en|Dr. Harlan K. Ullman|Huffington Post|31 May 2015|, "Winston Spencer Ghani"|year=2015|quote=...surely the link could not have been with Churchill the brilliant, gallant and steadfast wartime leader who, by dint of character, '''will''' and language, turned near defeat into victory.}}
# {{lb|en|law}} A formal declaration of one's intent concerning the disposal of one's property and holdings after death; the [[legal]] document stating such wishes. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#: {{syn|en|testament|last will|last will and testament}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1928|author=Lawrence R. Bourne
|title=Well Tackled!
|chapter=1|url=http://openlibrary.org/works/OL5387037W
|passage=“Uncle Barnaby was always father and mother to me,” Benson broke in; then after a pause his mind flew off at a tangent. “Is old Hannah all right—in the '''will''', I mean?”}}
# {{lb|en|archaic}} That which is desired; one's wish. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Spenser Faerie Queene|III|ii|passage=I auow by this most sacred head / Of my deare foster child, to ease thy griefe, / And win thy '''will''' [...].}}
# {{lb|en|archaic}} [[desire|Desire]], [[longing]]. (Now generally merged with later senses.) {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|He felt a great '''will''' to make a pilgrimage to the Holy Land.}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|one's independent faculty of choice}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ихтыяр}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|воля|f}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|lliure albir|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tahto}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wille|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|akarat}}
* Latin: {{t|la|arbitrium}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vilje|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wola|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arbítrio|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|во́ля|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|volja|f}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|ewyllys|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intention or decision}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|намерение|n}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|voluntat|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tahto}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wille|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szándék}}, {{t+|hu|döntés}}, {{t+|hu|kívánság}}, {{t+|hu|óhaj}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vilje|m}}, {{t|nb|krav|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wola|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|во́ля|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|volja|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|act of choosing to do something; conscious intent or volition}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|vullnet|m}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|رَغْبَة|f}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կամք}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|iradə}}, {{t+|az|ixtiyar}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ихтыяр}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|во́ля|f}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|во́ля|f}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|voluntat|f}}, {{t+|ca|albir|m}}
* Cebuano: {{t|ceb|buot}}, {{t|ceb|pagbuot}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|意志|tr=yìzhì}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vůle|f}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|voluntuot}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vilje|c}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wil|m}}, {{t+|nl|wens|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|volo}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|tahe}}
* Ewe: {{t|ee|lɔ̃lɔ̃nu}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|vilji|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tahto}}, {{t+|fi|halu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|volonté|f}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|volontât|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|vontade|f}}, {{t|gl|albidro|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ნება}}, {{t|ka|სურვილი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Wille|m}}
* Gothic: {{t|got|𐍅𐌹𐌻𐌾𐌰|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|βούληση|f}}, {{t+|el|θέληση|f}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|θέλημα|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|רָצוֹן|m|tr=ratsón}}, {{t+|he|אָבָה|tr=ava}}
* Hindi: {{t+|hi|इच्छा|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|szándék}}, {{t+|hu|akarat}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|hendak}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|deoin|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|volontà|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|意志|tr=いし, ishi}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|ерік}}, {{t|kk|ықтияр}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|의지(意志)}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|ыктыяр}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latin: {{t|la|voluntas}}
* Lithuanian: {{t|lt|valia}}, {{t+|lt|noras}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|Wëllen|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|волја|f}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|takune}}, {{t|mi|whakaaro}}, {{t|mi|e}} {{qualifier|before verb}}, {{t+|mi|ka}} {{qualifier|before verb}}
* Ngazidja Comorian: {{t|zdj|nyandzo|c9|c10}}
* Nogai: {{t|nog|эрк}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vilje|m}}, {{t+|nb|ønske|n}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|volontat}}
* Old Church Slavonic:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|cu|волꙗ|f}}
* Old Norse: {{t|non|vili|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آرزو|tr=ârezu}}, {{t+|fa|خواسته|tr=xâste}}, {{t+|fa|اختیار|tr=extiyâr}}
* Plautdietsch: {{t|pdt|Wellen|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wola|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vontade|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|voință|f}}
* Romansch: {{t|rm|voluntad}}, {{t|rm|volunted}}, {{t|rm|voluntà}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|во́ля|f}}
* Sanskrit: {{t+|sa|इच्छा|f}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|bolontade}}, {{t|sc|boluntadi}}, {{t|sc|volontade}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|во̏ља|f}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|vȍlja|f}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|vôľa|f}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|volja|f}}
* Sorbian:
*: Lower Sorbian: {{t|dsb|wóla|f}}
*: Upper Sorbian: {{t|hsb|wola|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|voluntad|f}}, {{t+|es|albedrío|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vilja|c}}, {{t+|sv|önskan|c}}
* Tajik: {{t+|tg|ихтиёр}}, {{t|tg|ирода}}, {{t+|tg|орзу}}
* Tatar: {{t+|tt|ихтыяр}}
* Tocharian A: {{t|xto|kri}}
* Ukrainian: {{t+|uk|во́ля|f}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|iroda}}, {{t+|uz|ixtiyor}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|ewyllys|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|legal document|testament}}

=====Collocations=====
{{sense|conscious intent or volition}}
* {{coi|en|a strong '''will'''}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{col3|en
|at will
|military will
|nuncupative will
|where there is a will there is a way
|[[wilful]], [[willful]]
|willpower
|will to power
|with a will
}}

=====Descendants=====
* {{desc|bn|উইল|bor=1}}

===Etymology 3===
From {{inh|en|enm|willen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|willian|t=to will}}, from {{inh|en|gmw-pro|*willjōn|t=to will}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*welh₁-|t=to choose, wish}}. Cognate with {{cog|nds-de|willen}}, {{cog|de|willen}}. The verb is not always distinguishable from Etymology 1, above.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|past2=would|past2_qual=rare}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|intransitive}} To [[instruct]] (that something be done) in one's will. {{defdate|from 9th c.}}
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[bequeath]] (something) to someone in one's will (legal document). {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|He '''willed''' his stamp collection to the local museum.}}
# {{senseid|en|enact intention}} {{lb|en|transitive}} To exert one's force of will (intention) in order to compel, or attempt to compel, something to happen or someone to do something. {{defdate|from 10th c.}}
#: {{ux|en|All the fans were '''willing''' their team to win the game.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Henry 8|III|i|passage=They '''willed''' me say so, madam.}}
#* {{RQ:Beaumont Fletcher Comedies and Tragedies|Love's Cure|1|2|passage=Send for music, / And '''will''' the cooks to use their best of cunning / To please the palate.}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|bequeath}} {{l|en|bequeath}}, {{l|en|leave}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to bequeath}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|կտակել}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|завещавам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|llegar}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|odkázat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|testamentere}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vermaken}}, {{t+|nl|nalaten}}, {{t+|nl|legateren}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|testamenti}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|testamentata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|léguer}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|სურს}}
* German: {{t+|de|vermachen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|([[örökül]]) [[hagy]]}}, {{t+|hu|ráhagy}}, {{t|hu|rátestál}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|legare}}, {{t|it|lasciare in eredità}}
* Luxembourgish: {{t|lb|verierwen}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|заветува}}, {{t|mk|остава во наследство}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|wira}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|testamentere}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|legar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|завеща́ть}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|zapustiti}}, {{t|sl|voliti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|legar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|testamentera}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
{{col4|en
|bequeath
|going to
|modal verb
|testament
|volition
|voluntary
}}

[[Category:English defective verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:English modal verbs]]
[[Category:en:Death]]
[[Category:en:Directives]]
[[Category:en:Property law]]

----

==Cahuilla==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|chl|azc-pro|*wip}}.

===Noun===
{{head|chl|noun|head=wíll}}

# [[fat]], [[grease]]

[[Category:chl:Foods]]
[[Category:chl:Materials]]

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|de|/vɪl/}}
* {{audio|de|De-will.ogg|Audio}}

===Verb===
{{head|de|verb form}}

# {{verb form of|de|wollen||1//3|s|pres}}

----

==Yola==

===Etymology===

===Verb===
{{head|yol|verb}}

# {{alt form|yol|woul||will}}
#* {{quote-book|yol|year=1867|title=GLOSSARY OF THE DIALECT OF FORTH AND BARGY|passage=Note '''will''' wee dra aaght to-die?|translation=I don't know '''will''' we draw any to-day?}}

===Noun===
{{head|yol|noun}}

# {{alt form|yol|woul||will}}
#* {{quote-book|yol|year=1867|chapter=ABOUT AN OLD SOW GOING TO BE KILLED|number=1|title=SONGS, ETC. IN THE DIALECT OF FORTH AND BARGY|passage=Ich aam goan maake mee '''will'''.|translation=I am going to make my '''will'''.}}

===References===
* {{R:Poole 1867|page=59}}