{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[whing]] (''obsolete'')

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|wĭng}}
*{{IPA|/wɪŋ/}}
*{{SAMPA|/wIN/}}
*{{audio|en-us-wing.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋ|-ɪŋ]]

===Etymology===
From {{ON.}} ''[[vængr]]''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[appendage]] of an [[animal]]'s (bird, bat, insect) body that enables it to fly.
# {{context|slang}} Human [[arm]].
# Part of an [[airplane]] that produces the lift for rising into the air.
# Part of a [[building]], an extension from the main building
# Part of a huge [[room]]. {{rfv-sense| Is this right? Could not find any proof. Hekaheka Jul 4, 2007}}
# A fraction of a [[political]] movement. Usually implies a position apart from the mainstream [[center]] position.
# A [[military]] [[air]] [[unit]], smaller than a [[division]] but larger than a [[group]] or [[squadron]].
# {{UK}} A panel of a car which encloses the wheel area, especially the front wheels.
# {{context|nautical}} A [[platform]] on either side of the [[bridge]] of a [[vessel]], normally found in pairs.
# {{context|hockey|football|icehockey}} A [[position]] in several field games on either side of the field.

====Synonyms====
*[[fender]] (''US'', panel of a car)
*[[guard]] (''Aus'', panel of a car)

====Related terms====
*[[left wing]]
*[[redwing]]
*[[right wing]]
*[[take under one's wing]]
*[[winged]]
*[[winger]]
*[[wingman]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|part of an animal}}
*Czech: [[křídlo]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[siipi]]
*Hebrew: [[אברה]] {{g|Hebrew}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[باڵ]]}}
*Russian: [[крыло]] (kryló) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|human arm}}
<!-- Only slang expressions that have some connection with a wing -->
*Finnish: [[siipi]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of an airplane}}
*Finnish: [[siipi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[крыло]] (kryló) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extension of a building}}
*Finnish: [[siipi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[крыло]] (kryló) {{n}}, [[флигель]] (flíg'el') {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|part of room}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|fraction of a political movement}}
*Finnish: [[siipi]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[крыло]] (kryló) {{n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|air force unit}}
*Finnish: [[lennosto]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|panel enclosing wheel area}}
*Finnish: [[lokasuoja]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|extension of a ship's bridge}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|position in hockey etc.}}
*Finnish: [[laitahyökkääjä]], [[laituri]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
{{trans-top|translations to be checked}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[krah]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[جناح|جَنَاح]]}} (janá:ħ) {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Armenian}}: [[թեւ]] (tev)
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[askell]] {{f}}, divaskell / eskell / iskilli {{p}} (1), [[askell]] {{f}}, askelloù {{p}} (2), [[kazel]] {{f}}, kazelioù {{p}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[крило]] (kriló) {{n}} (1,2,3), [[фланг]] (flang) {{m}} (6)
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[ala]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|CJKV Characters}}: [[翼]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[翼]], [[翅膀]] (chìbǎng), [[机翼]] (jīyì)
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[krilo]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[vleugel]] {{m}} (1,2,3,5)
*{{ttbc|Erzya}}: [[сёлмо]] (sjolmo)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[flugilo]] (1), [[planeo]] (2), [[ala]] (3,4,6)
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[tiib]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[aile]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Flügel]] {{m}} (1,2,3,5), [[Schwinge]]
*{{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[pepo]]
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[पंख]] (pankh) {{g|Hindi}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[szárny]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sayap]] (1-5)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[ala]] (1,2,3,5)
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[ala]] {{f}}, [[ali]] {{p}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[翼]] ([[つばさ]], tsubasa) (1,2,5), [[飛行大隊]] (ひこうだいたい, hikōdaitai) (6)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[날개]] (nalgae)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[ala]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Latvian}}: [[spārns]] {{m}} {{s}} (1,2,3,5)
*{{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[पंख]] (pankha)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[vinge]] {{c}}
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[fiðere]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[skrzydło]] {{n}} (1-5), [[dywizjon]] {{m}} (6)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[asa]] {{f}} (1,2,3); [[ala]] {{f}} (3,5)
*{{ttbc|Rohingya}}: [[fak]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[aripă]] {{f}} (1-5), [[bază aeriană]] (6)
*{{ttbc|Romany}}: [[phāk]]
*{{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[sgiath]] {{f}}, [[sgiathan]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[ala]] {{f}}, [[aleta]] {{f}} (7)
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[vinge]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[రెక్క]] (rekka) (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Tok Pisin}}: [[han]] [[bilong]] [[pisin]] (1)
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[kanat]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[injure]] slightly (as with a [[gunshot]]), especially in the arm.
# {{intransitive}} To [[fly]].
# {{intransitive}} '''[[wing it]]''': To act or speak [[extemporaneous]]ly; to [[improvise]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|To injure slightly}}
*Bulgarian: [[наранявам]] (naranjavam), [[прострелвам]] ([[ръка]]) (prostrelvam)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[ferir]], [[vulnerar]] ([[al]] [[bracio]])
{{trans-mid}}
*Portuguese: [[ferir]] ([[no#Portuguese|no]] [[braço]])
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To fly}}
*Bulgarian: [[летя]] (letja)
*German: [[fliegen]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[volar]]
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[فڕین]]}}
*Portuguese: [[voar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To be extemporaneous}}
*Bulgarian: [[импровизирам]] (improviziram)
*German: [[improvisieren]]
{{trans-mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[improvisar]]
*Portuguese: [[improvisar]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:wing]]
[[ar:wing]]
[[zh-min-nan:wing]]
[[es:wing]]
[[fa:wing]]
[[fr:wing]]
[[io:wing]]
[[id:wing]]
[[hu:wing]]
[[ja:wing]]
[[pl:wing]]
[[ru:wing]]
[[simple:wing]]
[[sr:wing]]
[[fi:wing]]
[[sv:wing]]
[[ta:wing]]
[[vi:wing]]
[[tr:wing]]
[[uk:wing]]
[[zh:wing]]