==English==
{{rft|Should it be expanded to "at one's wits' end"?}}

===Etymology===
[[wits]][[']] + [[end]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|head=[[wits]][[']] [[end]]}}

# {{context|idiomatic|lang=en}} Limit of one's [[sanity]] or mental capacity; point of [[desperation]].
#* '''1699''', [[w:Edward Taylor|Edward Taylor]], in ''The Poems of Edward Taylor'' (1989 edition), page 136:
#*: The Seamen they
#*: Bestir their stumps, and at '''wits end''' do weep.
#*: Wake, Jonas, who saith
#*: Heave me over deck.
#* '''1868''', [[w:Wilkie Collins|Wilkie Collins]], ''The Moonstone'', ch. 22:
#*: He was so eloquent in drawing the picture of his own neglected merits, and so pathetic in lamenting over it when it was done, that I felt quite at my '''wits' end''' how to console him.
#* {{RQ:Sinclair Jungle|18}}
#*: The frightened women were at their '''wits' end'''.
#* {{circa|1911}} [[w:John Muir|John Muir]], in John Muir and Michael P. Branch, ''John Muir's Last Journey: South to the Amazon and East to Africa'' (2002 edition), page 138:
#*: Our dozen cabin passengers sorely put to '''wits' end''' to pass yesterday without cards in observance of the Sabbath.
#* '''2010''' Dec. 10, Leo Cendrowicz, "[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2035733,00.html Talks on Iran's Nuclear Program Produce ... More Talks]," ''Time'':
#*: Yet years of talks, threats and sanctions have failed to halt the program, and officials are at their '''wits' end''' on how to wean Iran off its nuclear habit.

====Usage notes====
* Note that the [[apostrophe]] is placed after the ''s'' of {{term|wits|lang=en}} (meaning abilities), not after {{term|wit|lang=en}} (one's humour or intelligence).