==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{enPR|wōk}}
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/wəʊk/|lang=en}}
* {{a|GA}} {{IPA|/woʊk/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-woke.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|əʊk|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-past of|wake}}

===Etymology 2===
Shortened from {{m|en|woken up|woke(n up)}}.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-|more|er}}

# {{lb|en|dialect|AAVE|or|slang}} [[awake|Awake]]: conscious and not asleep.
# {{lb|en|US|Canada|slang}} [[alert|Alert]] and aware of what is going on, especially in [[social justice]] contexts. Well-informed.
#*'''1942''', J. Saunders Redding, ''Negro Digest'', Volume 01:
#*:“Waking up is a damn sight harder than going to sleep, but we’ll stay '''woke''' up longer.”
#*'''1962''', William Melvin Kelley, “If You’re '''Woke''' You Dig It”, ''{{W|The New York Times}}'' (May 20, 1962), p.&nbsp;45
#*'''1972''', ''Garvey Lives!'', {{W|Barry Beckham}}
#*:“I been sleeping all my life. And now that Mr.&nbsp;Garvey done woke me up, I’m gon stay '''woke'''. And I’m gon help him wake up other black folk.”
#* '''2008''', {{W|Erykah Badu}}, “Master Teacher” from the album ''{{w|New Amerykah Part One (4th World War)}}''
#*:“What if there was no niccas / Only master teachers? / I stay woke (dreams dreams)”
#* '''2014''', Lynn Sweeting, ''WomanSpeak, A Journal of Writing and Art by Caribbean Women'', volume 7:
#*: {{...}} stay '''woke'''[,] people of color,<br>let us occupy this dissent
#* '''2016''', Ross Douthat, "[http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/14/opinion/sunday/a-playboy-for-president.html A Playboy for President]," ''The New York Times'', 14 Aug.
#*: "But the cultural conflict between these two post-revolutionary styles&nbsp;— between frat guys and feminist [[bluestocking]]s, [[Gamergater]]s and the diversity police, [[alt-right]] provocateurs and '''woke''' [[dude-bro|dudebros]], the [[mouthbreather]]s who poured hate on the all-female 'Ghostbusters' and the [[tastemaker]]s who pretended it was good&nbsp;— is likely here to stay."

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|not asleep}} See [[Thesaurus:awake]]
* {{sense|alert and aware}} See [[Thesaurus:vigilant]]

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|get woke, go broke}}
* {{l|en|woke church}}
* {{l|en|wokeness}}
=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|alert of what is happening}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يَقِظ}}, {{t|ar|نَبِه}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|politically correct}} {{q|in conservative discourse, pejorative}}, {{l|en|right-on}} {{q|British}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=ekow|Ewok}}

----

==Middle English==

===Etymology 1===
Inherited from {{inh|enm|ang|wicu}}.

====Noun====
{{head|enm|noun}}

# {{alternative form of|lang=enm|weke|id=week|t=week}}

===Etymology 2===
Inherited from {{inh|enm|ang|wāc}}, from {{inh|enm|gem-pro|*waikwaz}}. {{doublet|enm|weyk}}.

====Alternative forms====
* {{alter|enm|wac|woc|wake|wok|wooc|woake|wokiest}}

====Pronunciation====
* {{IPA|lang=enm|/wɔːk/}}
* {{a|Northern ME|Early ME}} {{IPA|lang=enm|/wɑːk/}}

====Adjective====
{{enm-adj|woke|wakker|wakkest}}

# Weak or feeble; lacking, strength, might, or energy:
## Weak or feeble due to illness, affliction or aging.
## Lacking competency in combat or on the battlefield.
## Helpless; lacking, power, authority, or control.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Fruitless, barren; agriculturally useless or unusable.
# Lacking mental strength, force, power or endurance:
## Weak religiously; in danger of sinning or moral failure.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Fearing, afraid; lacking bravery, heart, or courage.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Unintelligent; lacking intelligence or mental willpower.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Indecisive, flightly; unable to commit or take action.
## {{lb|enm|rare}} Morally suspect or corrupt; selfish.
# Unimportant, valueless; of little value or import.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Bendable; able to be plied or flexed.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|enm|woclic}}
* {{l|enm|wocnesse}}
* {{l|enm|woken}}

=====Descendants=====
* {{desc|sco|wak}}, {{l|sco|wake}}, {{l|sco|waik}} (conflated with {{m|enm|weyk}})

=====References=====
* {{R:MED Online|entry=wōk (adj.)|id=MED53317|accessdate=2018-11-28}}

[[Category:enm:Body]]
[[Category:enm:Disease]]
[[Category:enm:Military]]
[[Category:enm:Mind]]
[[Category:enm:Sound]]