{{wikipedia|dab=woman (disambiguation)|woman}}
==English==

{{rank|enough|quite|brought|231|woman|want|home|whose}}

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} [[wifmann|wīfmann]], from [[wif|wīf]] (‘adult female’, [[Modern English]] [[wife]]) + [[mann]] (‘human being’).

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{IPA|/ˈwʊmən/}}, {{SAMPA|/"wUm@n/}}
* {{audio|en-us-woman.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Hyphenation: wom·an

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|women}}

# An [[adult]] [[female]] [[human being]].

====Antonyms====
* [[man]]
* [[girl]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|adult female human being}}
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[vrou]]
* [[Ainu]]: [[メノコ]] (menoko)
* Albanian: [[grua]], [[femër]]
* Apache:
*: Chiricahua: [[’isdzán]]
*: Jicarilla: [[ch’eekéé]]
*: Western Apache: [[isdzánhń]] (-[[’isdzą’]])
* Arabic: {{ARchar|[[امراة|امرأة]]}} (’ímra’a) {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[مراة|مرأة]]}} (már’a) {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[نساء]]}} {{p}}
* [[Aragonese]]: [[muller]] {{f}}
* [[Azeri]]: [[qadın]]
* [[Basque]]: [[andre]], [[emakume]]
* Bosnian: [[žena#Bosnian|žena]] {{f}}
* [[Breton]]: [[maouez]] {{f}} -ed {{p}}
* Bulgarian: [[жена#Bulgarian|жена]] (žena) {{f}}
* Belarusian: [[жанчына]] (žančyna)  {{f}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[dona]] {{f}} [[:ca:dona|^]]
* CJKV Characters: [[女]]
* Chinese: [[妇女]] (fùnǚ), [[女人]] (nǚrén)
*: Teochew: za1bhou2nang5, ze1nion5
* Croatian: [[žena#Croatian|žena]] {{f}}
* Czech: [[žena#Czech|žena]] {{f}}
* Danish: [[kvinde]] {{c}}
* Dutch: [[vrouw]] {{f}}
* Esperanto: [[virino]]
* Estonian: [[naine]]
* Faroese: [[kona]] {{f}}, [[kvinna]] {{f}}
* [[Fijian]]: [[marama]] ([[:fj:marama|^]])
* Finnish: [[nainen]]
* French: [[femme]] {{f}}
* [[Frisian]]: [[frou]]
* Georgian: [[ქალი]] (kali)
* German: [[Frau]] {{f}} [[:de:Frau|^]]
* Greek: [[γυναίκα]] (ɣinéka) {{f}}
* [[Guaraní]]: [[kuña]]
* Hebrew: [[אישה]] (išá) {{f}}
* Hindi: [[औरत]] (aurat) {{f}}, [[स्त्री]]
* Hungarian: [[nő]]
* Icelandic: [[kona]] {{f}}, [[kvenmaður]] {{m}}
* [[Ido]]: [[muliero]]
* Indonesian: [[perempuan]], [[wanita]]
*: [[Javanese]]: [[wadon]]
*: [[Sundanese]]: [[istri]] (polite)
* [[Interlingua]]: [[femina]]
* [[Inuktitut]]: [[ᐊᕐᓇᖅ]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: [[bean]] (''gen. sg. & nom. pl.'' [[mná]], ''gen. pl.'' [[ban#Irish|ban]])
* Italian: [[donna]] {{f}}
* Japanese: [[女性]] (じょせい, josei), [[女の人]] (おんなのひと, onná no hitó)
* Kazakh: [[қатын]] (qatın)
* Korean: [[계집]] (gyejip), [[여자]] ([[女子]], yeoja)
* Kurdish: [[jin]], [[pîrek]], [[afret]], [[kilfet]], {{KUchar|[[ژن]]}}, {{KUchar|[[ئافره‌ت]]}}
* Latin: [[femina]] {{f}}, [[mulier]] {{f}}
* Latvian: [[sieviete]] {{f}}
* Lithuanian: [[moteris]] {{f}}
* [[Lojban]]: [[ninmu]]
* Malay: [[wanita]]
* [[Malayalam]]: [[സ്ത്രീ]] (sthree), [[പെണ്ണ്]] (peNNu), [[വനിത]] (vanitha), [[മഹിള]] (mahiLa)
* Maltese: [[mara]]
* [[Manx]]: [[ben#Manx|ben]] {{f}}
* [[Marathi]]: [[बाइको]]
* [[Mi'kmaq]]: [[ebit]]
* Navajo: [[asdzáán]], [[asdzą́ą́]]
* Norwegian: [[kvinne]] {{c}}, [[dame ]] {{c}}
* [[Novial]]: [[fema]]
* Old English: [[wif|wīf]], [[wifmann|wīfmann]], [[ides]], [[freo|frēo]], [[cwen|cwēn]], [[cwene]]
* Persian: {{FAchar|[[زن|زَن]]}} (zæn)
* Polish: [[kobieta]] {{f}}
* Portuguese: [[mulher]] {{f}}
* [[Powhatan]]: [[krenepo]]
* Romanian: [[femeie]] {{f}}, [[muiere]] {{f}}
* Russian: [[женщина]] (žénščina) {{f}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[bean#Scottish Gaelic|bean]] {{f}} (''gen. sg. & nom. pl.'' [[mnathan]], ''gen. pl.'' [[bean#Scottish Gaelic|bean]])
* Serbian:
*: Cyrillic: [[жена#Serbian|жена]] {{f}}
*: Roman: [[žena#Serbian|žena]] {{f}}
* Setswana: mosadi
* Slovak [[žena]] {{f}}
* Slovene: [[ženska]] {{f}}, [[žena]] {{f}}
* Spanish: [[mujer]] {{f}}
* Swedish: [[kvinna]] {{c}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[ఆడది]] (aaDadi), [[స్త్రీ]] (stree), [[మహిళ]] (mahiLa)
* [[Tetum]]: [[feto]]
* [[Tok Pisin]]: [[meri]]
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[kunhã]]
* Turkish: [[kadın]]
* [[Tz'utujil]]: [[ixoq]]
* Ukrainian: [[жінка]] (žínka) {{f}}
* Urdu: {{URchar|[[عورت]]}} ('aurat) {{f}}
* Welsh: [[benyw]] {{f}}, [[dynes]] {{f}}
* Yiddish: [[froy]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top4|terms derived from woman}}
* [[cleaning woman]]
* [[firewoman]]
* [[gentlewoman]]
* [[little woman]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[medicine woman]]
* [[old woman]]
* [[other woman]]
{{rel-mid4}}
* [[policewoman]]
* [[womanish]]
* [[womanly]]
* [[womanhood]]
{{rel-mid4
* [[woman suffrage]]
* [[women]]
* [[womyn]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[female]]
* [[feminine]]
* [[femme]]
* [[gal]]
* [[girl]]
* [[lady]]
* [[womyn]]
* [[wikiSaurus:woman]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]
[[Category:Human]]

[[af:woman]]
[[ang:woman]]
[[ar:woman]]
[[as:woman]]
[[zh-min-nan:woman]]
[[br:woman]]
[[de:woman]]
[[et:woman]]
[[el:woman]]
[[es:woman]]
[[fa:woman]]
[[fr:woman]]
[[fy:woman]]
[[ko:woman]]
[[hy:woman]]
[[io:woman]]
[[id:woman]]
[[it:woman]]
[[kk:woman]]
[[rw:woman]]
[[ky:woman]]
[[ku:woman]]
[[hu:woman]]
[[nl:woman]]
[[ja:woman]]
[[pl:woman]]
[[pt:woman]]
[[ro:woman]]
[[ru:woman]]
[[simple:woman]]
[[sr:woman]]
[[fi:woman]]
[[sv:woman]]
[[ta:woman]]
[[te:woman]]
[[vi:woman]]
[[tr:woman]]
[[uk:woman]]
[[zh:woman]]