{{see|Wood}}
==English==

{{rank|higher|military|passage|892|wood|matters|physical|spring}}

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]], [[Australian English|AusE]] & [[GenAm]]:'' {{IPA|/wʊd/}}
*{{audio|en-us-wood.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{rhymes|ʊd}}

====Homophones====
*[[would]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[wudu]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A forested or wooded area, most often used in the plural: "he got lost in the woods beyond Seattle".
# {{uncountable}} The substance making up the central part of the [[trunk]] and [[branches]] of a [[tree]]. Used as a material for construction, to manufacture various items, etc. or as fuel.
# {{countable}} As the previous but referring to a particular wood, i.e. a wood that is recognized as such in the trade. "Teak is much used for outdoor benches, but a number of other woods are also suitable, such as ipé, redwood, etc".
# {{countable}} A type of [[golf club]] the [[head]] of which is frequently made of wood.
# {{slang}} an [[erection]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
*[[bentwood]]
*[[greasewood]]
*[[hardwood]]
*[[heartwood]]
*[[kingwood]]
*[[ironwood]]
*[[olivewood]]
*[[purplewood]]
{{mid2}}
*[[softwood]]
*[[whitewood]]
*[[woodchopper]]
*[[woodcock]]
*[[wooden]]
*[[woodpecker]]
*[[woody]]
{{bottom2}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|woodland}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|metsä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bois}}
* German: {{t-|de|Waldland|n}}, {{t-|de|Waldung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δάσος|n|sc=Grek}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[숲]] (sup), [[수풀]] (supul)
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|skog|m}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[bòsc]] {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|bosque|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skog|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|substance, timber}}
* Albanian: {{t-|sq|dru|xs=Albanian}}
* Arabic: {{t-|ar|خشب|tr=kháshab|sc=ARchar}}
* [[Basque]]: [[zur]]
* [[Blackfoot]]: [[mĭstcĭs]]
* [[Breton]]: [[koad]] {{m}}, koadeier / koadoù
* [[Catalan]]: [[fusta]] {{f}}
* Chinese: [[木]] (mù)
* Croatian: {{t-|hr|drvo|n}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dřevo|n}}
* Dutch: [[hout]] {{n}} (2), [[houtsoort]] {{f}} (3), [[woud]] {{n}} (1)
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|ligno|xs=Esperanto}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|puit}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puu}}
* French: {{t+|fr|bois|m}}
* [[Frisian]]: [[hout]] {{n}}
* German: [[Holz]] {{n}} (2,3), [[Wald]] (1){{n}}
* Greek: {{t-|el|ξύλο|n|sc=Grek}}, {{t-|el|ξυλεία|f|sc=Grek}}
* Greek (Classical): [[ξύλον]] (xýlon)
* [[Guarani]]: [[yvyra]]
* Hebrew [[עץ]] (‘ets), [[קרש]] (khorsh)
* Hindi: [[लक्डी]] (luckdee)
* [[Hopi]]: [[koho]]
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|fa}}
* [[Ilocano]]: [[kayo]]
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kayu|xs=Indonesian}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[ligno]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|legno|m}}, {{t+|it|bosco|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[木]], [[木材]] (もくざい, mokuzai)
* Korean: [[나무]] (namu), [[목재]] ([[木材]], mokjae)
* Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[دار]]}}
* [[Lakota]]: [[čą]]
* Latin: [[materia]] (2), [[lignum]] (2,3), [[silva]] (1)
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|medis|xs=Lithuanian}}
* [[Marathi]]: [[लाकुड]] (Lākud)
* [[Mingo]]: [[úwẽ'kææ']], [[uyêta']]
* [[Mohawk]]: [[oyente]]
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|tre|n}}, {{t-|no|treverk|n}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[fusta]]
* Old English: [[wudu]] (1,2,3)
* [[Ossetian]]: {{RUchar|[[хъæд]]}} (khaed)
* [[Piemontese]]: [[bosch]]
* Polish: {{t-|pl|drewno|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|madeira|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|lemn|n}}
* [[Romansch]]: [[lain]] {{m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|дерево|n|tr=dérevo|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Sardinian]]: [[linna]] {{f}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[fiodh]] {{m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|les|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|madera|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|trä}}
* [[Tatar]]: [[агач]] (agaç)
* [[Telugu]]: [[చిట్టడవి]] (ciTTaDavi) (1), [[కలప]] (kalapa) (2)
* [[Tupinambá]]: [[ybyrá]]
* Turkish: {{t-|tr|odun}}
* Welsh: {{t-|cy|coed|xs=Welsh}}
* [[Yucatec]] ([[Maya]]): [[čeʼ]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|pieces gathered to make fire}}
* [[Basque]]: [[egur]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[llenya]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puu|p|alt=puut}}, {{t-|fi|polttopuu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Korean: [[땔나무]] (ttael-namu)
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|ved|m}}
* [[Occitan]]: [[lenha]] {{f}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|leña|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ved|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|type of golf club}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Holz|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|an erection (slang)}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|stondis}}
* German: {{t+|de|Latte|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

# Made of wood.

=====Synonyms=====
*[[wooden]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|houten}}
* Finnish: [[puinen]], [[puu#Finnish|puu-]] (''prefix in a compound'')
* German: [[Holz]]-
{{mid}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[కలప]] (kalapa)
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To supply or cover with trees.
#:''He is down in the '''wooded''' dell.''

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[wod|wōd]].

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|er}}

# {{archaic}} [[mad]], [[insane]], [[crazed]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ar:wood]]
[[zh-min-nan:wood]]
[[da:wood]]
[[de:wood]]
[[fr:wood]]
[[ko:wood]]
[[hy:wood]]
[[io:wood]]
[[it:wood]]
[[kk:wood]]
[[ku:wood]]
[[hu:wood]]
[[ja:wood]]
[[ug:wood]]
[[pl:wood]]
[[pt:wood]]
[[ru:wood]]
[[simple:wood]]
[[fi:wood]]
[[ta:wood]]
[[te:wood]]
[[vi:wood]]
[[uk:wood]]
[[zh:wood]]