==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈwɜː(ɹ)ldli/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-worldly.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|worldly}}, {{m|enm|worldlich}}, from {{inh|en|ang|worldlīċ}}, {{m|ang|woruldlīċ}}, {{m|ang|weoroldlīċ|t=worldly; earthly; temporal; mundane; secular}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*weraldilīkaz}}, equivalent to {{suffix|en|world|ly}}. Cognate with {{cog|nl|wereldlijk|t=worldly; secular}}, {{cog|nds-de|weltlik|t=worldly}}, {{cog|de|weltlich|t=worldly}}, {{cog|da|verdslig|t=worldly}}, {{cog|sv|världslig|t=worldly}}, {{cog|is|veraldlegur|t=worldly; secular}}.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er|more}}

# Concerned with [[human]] or [[earthly]] matters, [[physical]] as opposed to [[spiritual]].
#* '''1868''', [[w:Louisa May Alcott|Louisa May Alcott]], ''[[s:Little Women/Chapter 24|Little Women]]'', Part Two, Chapter Twenty-four: Gossip,
#*: These attributes, in spite of poverty and the strict integrity which shut him out from the more '''worldly''' successes, attracted to him many admirable persons, as naturally as sweet herbs draw bees, and as naturally he gave them the honey into which fifty years of hard experience had distilled no bitter drop.
#* {{circa|1883-1896}} [[w:Vyasa|Vyasa]], [[w:Kisari Mohan Ganguli|Kisari Mohan Ganguli]] (translator), ''[[s:The Mahabharata/Book 1: Adi Parva/Section LXXXV|The Mahabharata]]'', Book 1: Adi Parva, Section LXXXV,
#*: Thirst of enjoyment, therefore, should be given up. Indeed, true happiness belongeth to them that have cast off their thirst for '''worldly''' objects--a thirst which is difficult to be thrown off by the wicked and the sinful, which faileth not with the failing life, and which is truly the fatal disease of man.
#* '''1889''', [[w:Leo Tolstoy|Leo Tolstoy]], [[w:Huntington Smith|Huntington Smith]] (translator), ''[[s:My Religion/Chapter VIII|My Religion]]'', Chapter VIII,
#*: The conviction that my personal, '''worldly''' life was something real and good constituted the misunderstanding, the obstacle, that prevented me from comprehending Jesus doctrine.
#* '''1910''', [[w:G. K. Chesterton|G. K. Chesterton]], ''[[s:What's Wrong with the World/Chapter1.3|What's Wrong with the World]]'', Chapter 1, part 3,
#*: We have actually contrived to invent a new kind of hypocrite. The old hypocrite, Tartuffe or Pecksniff, was a man whose aims were really '''worldly''' and practical, while he pretended that they were religious. The new hypocrite is one whose aims are really religious, while he pretends that they are '''worldly''' and practical.
# Concerned with [[secular]] rather than [[sacred]] matters.
# [[sophisticated|Sophisticated]], especially because of [[surfeit]]; [[versed]] in the ways of the world.
#* {{quote-journal
|date=Jan 24, 2016
|author=Les Chappell
|title=TV: Review: The Simpsons (Classic), “Natural Born Kissers” (season nine, episode 25, originally aired 05/17/1998)
|work=The Onion AV Club
|url=http://www.avclub.com/tvclub/uneven-season-simpsons-streaks-excellent-conclusio-230898
|page=
|passage=Homer and Marge have to try to explain things to children who are too '''worldly''' to fall for most excuses, the explanation trails off, and what could be a pleasant family outing to solve it all turns out to be yet another excuse for self-involvement when one public humiliation doesn’t outweigh the joys of getting busy in a windmill. }}
4. '''Experienced''', esp. in a practical way.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|concerned with the human, earthly or physical rather than spiritual}} {{l|en|material}}, {{l|en|mundane}}
* {{sense|concerned with the secular rather than sacred}} {{l|en|lay}}, {{l|en|profane}}
* {{sense|versed in the ways of the world}} {{l|en|sophisticated}}, {{l|en|street-smart}}

====Antonyms====
* {{sense|concerned with the human, earthly or physical rather than spiritual}} {{l|en|otherworldly}}, {{l|en|spiritual}}
* {{sense|concerned with the secular rather than sacred}} {{l|en|clerical}}, {{l|en|religious}}, {{l|en|sacred}}
* {{sense|versed in the ways of the world}} {{l|en|naive}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|concerned with the human, earthly or physical rather than spiritual}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|mundà}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|materieel}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maallinen}}, {{t+|fi|mainen}}
* German: {{t+|de|weltlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοσμικός|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|anyagias}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|domhanda}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|световен|m|tr=svétoven}}, {{t|mk|овоземски|m|tr=ovozémski}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|mundano}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|мирско́й}}, {{t+|ru|земно́й}}, {{t+|ru|су́етный}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|saoghalta}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|mundano}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|världslig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|concerned with the secular rather than sacred}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|mundà}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wereldlijk}}, {{t+|nl|seculier}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maallinen}}, {{t+|fi|sekulaarinen}}
* German: {{t+|de|weltlich}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοσμικός|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|világi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mondano}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|световен|m|tr=svétoven}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|świecki}}, {{t|pl|laicki}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|све́тский}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|saoghalta}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|världslig}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|versed in the ways of the world}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|wereldwijs}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|maallinen}}
* German: {{t|de|weltgewandt}}, {{t|de|weltmännisch}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|κοσμικός|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|светски|m|tr=svétski}}, {{t|mk|искусен|m|tr=ískusen}}, {{t|mk|ербап|tr=érbap}}, {{t|mk|способен|m|tr=spósoben}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|verdensvant}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|światowy}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|о́пытный}}, {{t+|ru|быва́лый}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|saoghalta}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# In a worldly manner.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|worldly-wise}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|In a worldly manner.}}
* Greek: {{t|el|κοσμικώς}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|mondanamente}}
{{trans-bottom}}