{{also|Worship}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|weorþscipe|lang=ang}}, corresponding to {{suffix|worth|ship}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈwəːʃɪp/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈwɝʃɪp/}}
* {{audio|en-us-worship.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-|s}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} The condition of being [[worthy]]; [[honour]], [[distinction]].
#* '''1485''', {{w|Thomas Malory}}, ''Le Morte Darthur'', Book I:
#*: whan the knyght sawe that, he alyghte, for hym thought no '''worship''' to haue a knyght at suche auaille he to be on horsback and he on foot {{...}}
#* '''1590''', {{w|Edmund Spenser}}, ''The Faerie Queene'', III.3:
#*: Then he forth on his journey did proceede, / To seeke adventures which mote him befall, / And win him '''worship''' through his warlike deed {{...}}
# The [[devotion]] accorded to a [[deity]] or to a [[sacred]] object.
# The [[religious]] [[ceremony|ceremonies]] that express this devotion.
#* Tillotson
#*: The '''worship''' of God is an eminent part of religion, and prayer is a chief part of religious worship.
# {{context|by extension|lang=en}} The [[ardent]] [[love]] of a something.
# An object of worship.
#* Longfellow
#*: In attitude and aspect formed to be / At once the artist's '''worship''' and despair.
# Honour; respect; civil deference.
#* Spenser
#*: of which great worth and '''worship''' may be won
#* Bible, Luke xiv. 10
#*: Then shalt thou have '''worship''' in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from ''worship''}}
* [[freedom of worship]]
* [[Her Worship]]
* [[His Worship]]
* [[house of worship]]
* [[place of worship]]
* [[Worship]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[worshipability]]
* [[worshipable]]
* [[worshipful]]
* [[Worshipful Master]]
* [[worshipfully]]
* [[worshipfulness]]
{{rel-mid3}}
* [[worshipped]]
* [[worshipping]]
* [[worshippingly]]
* [[worshipworthy]]
* [[Your Worship]]
{{rel-bottom}}

====Synonyms====
* [[adoration]]
* [[reverence]]
* [[idolatry]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|devotion accorded to a deity or to a sacred object}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|պաշտօն|tr=paštōn}}
*: Old Armenian: {{t|xcl|պաշտամունք|tr=paštamunkʿ|sc=Armn}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|adoració|f}}, {{t|ca|culte|m}}, {{t|ca|veneració|f}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|uctívání|n}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|palvonta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|culte|m}}, {{t+|fr|adoration}}, {{t+|fr|vénération}}
* German: {{t|de|Verehrung|f}}, {{t+|de|Anbetung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λατρεία|f|tr=latreia}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סגידה|f|tr=sgidá|sc=Hebr}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|adorazione|f}}, {{t|it|venerazione|f}}, {{t+|it|culto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Kurdish: {{t+|ku|peristin|f}}, {{t|ku|په‌رستن}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|adoração|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|adhradh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|adoración|f}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|abudu}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyrkan}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ibadet}}, {{t+|tr|tapınma}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|پوجا|f|tr=pūjā|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t|ur|عبادت|f|tr=ibādat|sc=ur-Arab}}, {{t|ur|پرستش|f|tr=parastiś|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The religious ceremonies that express this devotion}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|culte|m}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|bohoslužba|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|jumalanpalvelus}}, {{t|fi|palvontamenot|p}}
* French: {{t+|fr|culte|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gottesdienst|m}}, {{t|de|Verehrung|f}}, {{t+|de|Anbetung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λατρεία|f|tr=latreia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|culto|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|adhradh|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|abudu}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|tillbedjan|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ibadet}}, {{t+|tr|tapınma}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|پوجا|f|tr=pūjā|sc=ur-Arab}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The ardent love of a person}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|adoració|f}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|palvonta}}
* French: {{t+|fr|culte|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Verehrung|f}}, {{t+|de|Anbetung|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|λατρεία|f|tr=latreia}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|culto|m}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|abudu}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyrkan|c}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tapma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ar}}: {{t|ar|عِبَادَة|f|tr=`ibaadah|sc=Arab}}
* {{ttbc|it}}: {{t+|it|culto|m}}
* {{ttbc|ko}}: {{t|ko|우러르다|tr=ureoreuda|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|숭배하다|tr=sungbae-hada|sc=Kore}}
* {{ttbc|ku}}: {{t+|ku|perestîş|f}}
* {{ttbc|sk}}: {{t|sk|uctievanie|n}}
* {{ttbc|es}}: {{t+|es|culto|m}}, {{t+|es|alabanza|f}}
* {{ttbc|pt}}: {{t+|pt|adoração|f}}, {{t+|pt|culto|m}}
* {{ttbc|tr}}: {{t+|tr|ibadet}}, {{t+|tr|tapınma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|worships|{{qualifier|UK}} '''[[worshipping]]''' or {{qualifier|US}} '''[[worshiping]]'''|{{qualifier|UK}} '''[[worshipped]]''' or {{qualifier|US}} '''[[worshiped]]'''}}

# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To [[reverence]] (a deity, etc.) with supreme respect and veneration; to perform religious exercises in honour of.
#* Shakespeare
#*: God is to be '''worshipped'''.
#* Milton
#*: When all our fathers '''worshipped''' stocks and stones.
# {{context|transitive|lang=en}} To honour with [[extravagant]] [[love]] and extreme [[submission]], as a lover; to [[adore]]; to [[idolize]].
#* Carew
#*: With bended knees I daily '''worship''' her.
# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To [[participate]] in religious ceremonies.
#: ''We '''worship''' at the church down the road.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to honor and adore, especially as a deity}}
* Arabic: {{t+|ar|عبد|tr=`ábada}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|পূজা করা|sc=Beng}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|adorar}}, {{t+|ca|venerar}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|崇拜|tr=chóngbài|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|崇奉|tr=chóngfèng|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|uctívat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vereren}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|palvoa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vénérer}}, {{t+|fr|adorer}}
* German: {{t+|de|verehren}}, {{t+|de|anbeten}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|סגד|tr=sagád|sc=Hebr}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|imád}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|崇拝|alt=崇拝する|tr=すうはいする, sūhai-surú}}
* Kurdish: [[peristin]], {{t|ku|په‌رستن}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|czcić}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|închina}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|поклоняться|tr=poklonját'sja}} {{qualifier|+ dative case}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|slaviti}}, {{t|sh|obožavati}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|dyrka}}, {{t+|sv|tillbe}}
* Uzbek: {{t|uz|topinmoq}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|To participate in religious ceremonies}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|dèan adhradh}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swahili: {{t+|sw|abudu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: [[aanbidden]]
* {{ttbc|it}}: [[adorare]]
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[adorar]], [[venerar]]
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[adorar]], [[venerar]], [[alabar]]
* {{ttbc|tr}}: [[ibadet etmek, tapınmak]]
{{trans-bottom}}

[[cs:worship]]
[[cy:worship]]
[[de:worship]]
[[et:worship]]
[[el:worship]]
[[es:worship]]
[[fr:worship]]
[[gl:worship]]
[[ko:worship]]
[[io:worship]]
[[it:worship]]
[[kn:worship]]
[[sw:worship]]
[[ku:worship]]
[[lt:worship]]
[[li:worship]]
[[hu:worship]]
[[mg:worship]]
[[ml:worship]]
[[my:worship]]
[[nl:worship]]
[[ja:worship]]
[[pl:worship]]
[[pt:worship]]
[[ro:worship]]
[[ru:worship]]
[[sm:worship]]
[[simple:worship]]
[[fi:worship]]
[[sv:worship]]
[[tl:worship]]
[[ta:worship]]
[[te:worship]]
[[chr:worship]]
[[tr:worship]]
[[vi:worship]]
[[zh:worship]]