==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|wou'd}} {{qualifier|obsolete}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{qualifier|stressed}}
** {{a|UK|US|AusE}} {{IPA|en|/wʊd/}}
** {{audio|en|en-us-would.ogg|Audio (US)}}
** {{rhymes|en|ʊd}}
* {{qualifier|unstressed}}
** {{a|UK|US|AusE}} {{IPA|en|/wəd/|/əd/}}
* Homophones: [[wood]]

===Verb===
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{lb|en|heading}} ''As a past-tense form of {{m|en|will}}.''
## {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[wished|Wished]], [[desired]] (something). {{defdate|9<sup>th</sup>-19<sup>th</sup>c.}}
## {{lb|en|archaic}} [[wanted|Wanted]] to ( + bare infinitive). {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1852''', James Murdock, trans. Johann Lorenz Mosheim, ''Institutes of Ecclesiastical History'', II.7.iii:
##*: The Greeks, especially those who '''would''' be thought adepts in mystic theology, ran after fantastic allegories{{nb...}}.
## [[used|Used]] to; was or were habitually accustomed to ( + bare infinitive); {{n-g|indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly}}. {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* {{quote-book|en|year=1898|author={{w|Winston Churchill (novelist)|Winston Churchill}}| title={{w|The Celebrity}}|chapter=4| passage=No matter how early I came down, I '''would''' find him on the veranda, smoking cigarettes, or otherwise his man '''would''' be there with a message to say that his master would shortly join me if I would kindly wait.}}
##* '''2009''', "Soundtrack of my life", ''The Guardian'', 15 March:
##*: When we were kids we '''would''' sit by the radio with a tape recorder on a Sunday, listening out for the chart songs we wanted to have.
## {{n-g|Used with bare infinitive to form the "[[anterior future]]", indicating a futurity relative to a past time.}} {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1867''', {{w|Anthony Trollope}}, ''{{w|Chronicles of Barsetshire|Last Chronicle of Barset}}'', Ch.28:
##*: That her Lily should have been won and not worn, had been, and '''would''' be, a trouble to her for ever.
##* {{RQ:BLwnds TLdgr|I|0056}}
##*: Thanks to that penny he had just spent so recklessly [on a newspaper] he '''would''' pass a happy hour, taken, for once, out of his anxious, despondent, miserable self. It irritated him shrewdly to know that these moments of respite from carking care would not be shared with his poor wife, with careworn, troubled Ellen.
##* {{quote-journal|en|date=November 5, 2011|author=Phil Dawkes|work=BBC Sport
|title=[http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/15503963.stm QPR 2-3 Man City]
|passage=Toure '''would''' have the decisive say though, rising high to power a header past Kenny from Aleksandar Kolarov's cross.}}
## {{lb|en|archaic}} {{n-g|Used with [[ellipsis]] of the infinitive verb, or postponement to a relative clause, in various senses}}. {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1724''', {{w|Daniel Defoe}}, ''{{w|Roxana: The Fortunate Mistress|Roxana}}'', Penguin p.107:
##*: He sat as one astonish'd, a good-while, looking at me, without speaking a Word, till I came quite up to him, kneel'd on one Knee to him, and almost whether he '''would''' or no, kiss'd his Hand{{nb...}}.
##* '''1846''', "A New Sentimental Journey", ''Blackwoods Magazine'', vol.LX, no.372:
##*: If I could fly, I '''would''' away to those realms of light and warmth – far, far away in the southern clime{{nb...}}.
## Was [[determined]] to; loosely, could naturally have been expected to (given the tendencies of someone's character etc.). {{defdate|from 18<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1835''', {{w|Charles Dickens}}, ''{{w|Sketches by Boz}}'',&nbsp;V:
##*: Then he took to breeding silk-worms, which he '''''would''''' bring in two or three times a day, in little paper boxes, to show the old lady{{nb...}}.<!-- or is this the habitual sense? -->
##* '''2009''', "Is the era of free news over?", ''The Observer'', {{nowrap|10 May:}}
##*: The free access model, the media magnate said last week, was "malfunctioning". Well he '''would''', wouldn't he?
# {{lb|en|heading}} ''As a modal verb, the subjunctive of [[will]].''
## {{n-g|Used to give a conditional or potential "softening" to the present}}; [[might]], might [[wish]]. {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''2008''', Mark Cocker, "Country Diary", ''The Guardian'', 3 November:
##*: It's a piece of old folklore for which I '''would''' love to find hard proof.
## {{n-g|Used as the [[auxiliary]] of the simple [[conditional]] modality (with a bare infinitive); indicating an action or state that is conditional on another}}. {{defdate|from 9<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''2010''', ''The Guardian'', 26 February:
##*: Warnock admitted it '''would''' be the ideal scenario if he received a Carling Cup winners' medal as well as an England call-up{{nb...}}.
## {{lb|en|chiefly|archaic}} Might [[wish]] ( + verb in past subjunctive); {{n-g|often used in the first person (with or without {{m|en|that}}) in the sense of "[[if only]]". {{defdate|from 13<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1859''', {{w|John Bunyan}}, ''{{w|The Pilgrim's Progress}}'',
##*: I presently wished, '''would''' that I h}}ad been in their clothes! '''would''' that I had been born Peter! '''would''' that I had been born John!
##* '''1868''', Sir {{w|Walter Scott}}, ''{{w|Ivanhoe}}'', Ch.23:
##*: I '''would''' she had retained her original haughtiness of disposition, or that I had a larger share of Front-de-Bœuf's thrice-tempered hardness of heart!
##* '''1912''', {{w|Philostratus}}, ''{{w|Life of Apollonius of Tyana}}'', translated by {{w|F. C. Conybeare}} ({{w|Loeb Classical Library}}), 8.16:
##*: But as the youth increased their annoyance by declaring that the goddess was quite right, because the Emperor was Archon Eponym of the city of Athens, he said: "'''Would''' that he also presided the Panathenaic festival."
## {{n-g|Used to impart a sense of hesitancy or uncertainty to the present}}; [[might]] be [[inclined]] to. {{n-g|Now sometimes colloquially with ironic effect}}. {{defdate|from 15<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''2009''', Nick Snow, ''The Rocket's Trail'', p.112:
##*: “Those trials are being run by the American army so surely you must have access to the documents?” “Well, yeah, you'''’d''' think.”
##* '''2010''', {{w|Terry Pratchett}}, "My case for a euthanasia tribunal", ''The Guardian'', {{nowrap|2 February:}}
##*: Departing on schedule with the help of a friendly doctor was quite usual. Does that still apply? It '''would''' seem so.
## {{n-g|Used interrogatively to express a polite request}}; are (you) willing to&nbsp;…? {{defdate|from 15<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##: {{ux|en|'''Would''' you pass the salt, please?}}
## {{lb|en|chiefly|archaic|transitive|or|control verb}} Might [[desire]]; [[wish]] (something). {{defdate|from 15<sup>th</sup>c.}}
##* '''1608''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|King Lear}}'',&nbsp;I.4:
##*: What [[dost]] [[thou]] [[professe]]? What '''would’st''' thou with vs?

====Usage notes====
* As an [[auxiliary verb]], {{m|en||would}} is followed by the bare infinitive (without {{m|en|to}}):
*: ''John said he '''would''' have fish for dinner.''
* {{m|en||Would}} is frequently contracted to {{m|en|'d}}, especially after a pronoun (as in {{m|en|I'd}}, {{m|en|you'd}}, and so on).
* The term ''[[would-be]]'' retains the senses of both desire and potentiality (those of ''[[wannabe]]'' and ''[[might-be]]'', respectively).
* Indicating a wish, {{m|en||would}} takes a clause in the past subjunctive (irrealis) mood; this clause may or may not be introduced with {{m|en|that}}. Most commonly in modern usage, it is followed by the adverb ''[[rather]]'', as in ''I '''would''' rather that he go now''. A call to a deity or other higher power is sometimes interposed after {{m|en||would}} and before the subjunctive clause, as in '''''Would''' to God that {{...}}''; see [[Citations:would|the citations page]] for examples.
* When used, mainly archaically, in the sense of "if only", the first-person subject pronoun is often omitted.

====Synonyms====
* (''indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly''): [[used to]]
* (''used to express a polite request''): [[be so good as to]], [[kindly]], [[please]]

====Translations====
'''''Note''': many languages express some meanings of '''would''' using a [[mood]] or [[tense]] rather than by a particular word.''
{{trans-top|indicating an action or state that is conditional on another}}
* Assamese: {{t|as|হেঁতেন}}, {{t|as|হয়}}
* Bulgarian: {{t-needed|bg}}
* Catalan: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Estariem més calents si no haguessis obert la finestra!
* Dutch: [[zou]]/[[zouden]] (past tense of [[zullen]])
** ''It would be warmer here, if you had not opened the window.'' - Het zou hier warmer zijn, als je het venster niet had geopend/niet zou hebben geopend
* Esperanto: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Ni estus pli varmaj se vi ne malfermus la fenestron!
* Finnish: ''Use the conditional mood''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Meillä olisi lämpimämpää jos et olisi avannut ikkunaa!
* French: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Nous aurions plus chaud si vous n'aviez pas ouvert la fenêtre !
* Georgian: {{t-needed|ka}}
* German: ''Use the subjunctive mood or "würde + infinitive''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Uns wäre wärmer, wenn du das Fenster nicht geöffnet hättest!
* Greek:
*: Ancient: Use the optative mood + {{t|grc|ἄν}}
* Hungarian: ''Use the conditional tense'', [[-na]]/[[-ne]]/[[-ná]]/[[-né]]
** ''It would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Melegebb volna, ha nem nyitot'''tad volna''' ki az ablakot!
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Staremmo più al caldo se tu non avessi aperto la finestra!
* Latin: ''Use the imperfect subjunctive''
** ''We hoped (that) the slave would carry the wine.'' - Sperabamus ut servus vinum portaret.
* Old Assamese: {{t|as|হন্তে}}
* Polish: ''Use the conditional tense (-by-)'', {{t+|pl|by}}
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - '''Byłoby''' nam cieplej, '''gdybyś''' nie otworzył okna!
* Portuguese: ''use the conditional tense''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Teríamos mais calor se você não tivesse aberto a janela.
* Romanian: {{t-needed|ro}}
* Russian: ''Use the conditional tense (бы)''
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - '''Было бы''' теплее, '''если''' '''бы''' ты не открыл окно!
* Spanish: conditional tense
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - ¡Tendríamos más calor si no hubieras abierto la ventana!
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skulle}}
** ''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Vi skulle vara varmare om du inte hade öppnat fönstret!
* Turkish: {{t-needed|tr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicating a possible (but not definite) future action or state}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
* Dutch: [[zou]]/[[zouden]] (past tense of [[zullen]])
** ''We sat on the bench asking ourselves if the bus would be too late this time.'' - We zaten op de bank ons afvragend of de bus deze keer te laat '''zou''' zijn.
* Esperanto: ''Use the future tense''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Ni sidis sur la benko nin demandante, ĉu la buso malfruos ĉi tiun fojon.
* Finnish: ''Use the conditional mood''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Istuimme rannalla miettien, tulisiko linja-auto tämän kerran myöhässä.
* French: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Nous étions assis sur le banc, nous demandant si l'autobus serait en retard cette fois.
* German: ''Use the conjunctive mood''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Wir saßen auf der Bank und fragten uns, ob der Bus diesmal zu spät käme.
* Hungarian: ''Use the future or present tense with [[-e]]''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - A padon ültünk, és azon gondolkoztunk, hogy ezúttal elkésik'''-e''' a busz.
* Italian: ''Use the conditional perfect tense''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Ci siamo seduti sulla panchina, domandandoci se il bus sarebbe stato in ritardo questa volta.
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: ''Use the conditional tense (futuro do pretérito)''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Nos sentamos no banco, perguntando-nos se o ônibus chegaria tarde esta vez.
* Russian: ''Use the future tense with (ли)''
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Мы сидели на скамейке и гадали, опоздает '''ли''' автобус.
* Spanish: conditional tense
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Nos sentamos en el banco, preguntándonos si el autobús llegaría tarde esta vez
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skulle}}
** ''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Vi satt på bänken och undrade om bussen skulle bli sen den här gången.
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicating an action in the past that was planned or intended}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
* Dutch: [[zou]]/[[zouden]] (past tense of [[zullen]])
** ''The waiter said that he would be right back.'' - De ober zei dat hij meteen terug '''zou''' keren.
* Esperanto: ''Use the future tense''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - La kelnero diris, ke li tuj revenos.
* Finnish: ''Use the conditional mood''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Tarjoilija sanoi palaavansa pian. / Tarjoilija sanoi, että hän palaisi pian.
* French: ''Use the conditional tense''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Le garçon a dit qu'il reviendrait tout de suite.
* German: ''Use either the Subjunctive I or II form of the verb, or würde + infinitive''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Der Kellner sagte, er sei sofort wieder da.
* Hungarian: ''Use the future or present tense''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - A pincér azt mondta, hogy mindjárt visszajön.
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: ''Use the conditional perfect tense''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Il cameriere ha detto che sarebbe ritornato subito.
* Portuguese: ''Use the conditional tense (futuro do pretérito)''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - O garçom disse que voltaria logo.
* Russian: ''Use the future tense''
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Официант сказал, что скоро вернется.
* Spanish: conditional tense
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - El camarero ha dicho que volvería enseguida.
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|skulle}}
** ''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Kyparen sa att han strax skulle komma tillbaka.
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
* Dutch: ''Use the past tense''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - 's winters zaten we bij het gat in het bevroren meer en visten we urenlang.
* Esperanto: ''Use the past tense in the repetitive aspect''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En la vintroj, ni sidadis apud la truo sur la frostiĝinta lago kaj fiŝkaptadis dum horoj.
* Finnish: ''Use the conditional mood''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Istuisimme talvisin jäisessä järvessä olevan reiän vierelle ja kalastaisimme tuntien ajan.
* French: ''Use the imperfect tense''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En hiver, nous étions habituellement assis à côté du trou sur le lac gelé et nous pêchions pendant des heures.
* German: ''Use the preterite tense and ''immer ''for emphasis on the repetitive nature
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Im Winter saßen wir immer um ein Loch auf den gefrorenen See und angelten stundenlang.
* Greek:
*: Ancient: ''Use imperfect tense alone or past tense with'' {{t|grc|ἄν}}
* Hungarian: ''Use the past tense''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Minden télen órákat ül'''tünk''' a jégen a lyuk mellett, és halász'''tunk'''.
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: ''Use the imperfect tense''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - D'inverno ci sedevamo presso al buco sul lago ghiacciato e pescavamo per ore.
* Portuguese: ''Use the imperfect tense''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - No inverno, nos sentávamos perto do buraco do lago congelado e pescávamos por horas.
* Russian: ''Use the past tense with imperfective aspect''
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Зимой мы сидели у лунки на замерзшем озере и часами рыбачили.
* Spanish: conditional tense
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En invierno, nos sentábamos cerca del agujero que hay en el lago congelado y pescábamos durante horas
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|bruka}}
** ''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - På vintrarna '''brukade''' vi sitta vid vaken i den frusna sjön och fiska i flera timmar.
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|used to express a polite request}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
* Dutch: [[zou]]/[[zouden]] (past tense of [[zullen]]), [[gelieve]]
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - '''Zou''' u a.u.b. de TV kunnen uitzetten, '''Gelieve''' de TV uit te schakelen, a.u.b.
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|bonvoli}}
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Bonvolu malŝalti la televidon, mi petas?
* Finnish: ''Use the conditional''
** ''Would you please turn off the TV''? &mdash; [[sulkea|Sulk'''isi'''t]][[-ko|ko]] [[televisio]]n?
* French: {{t+|fr|vouloir}}, [[veuillez]] (''imperative'')
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Pourrais-tu éteindre la télé, s'il te plaît? {{qualifier|informal}}; Pourriez-vous / Veuillez éteindre la télévision, s'il vous plaît? {{qualifier|formal}}
* German: ''Use the conditional paraphrase employing ''würden
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Würden Sie bitte den Fernseher ausschalten?
* Hungarian: ''Use the conditional''
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' Kikapcsol'''nád''' a tv-t? / '''Megtennéd, hogy''' kikapcsolod a tv-t?
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|volere}}
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Vuoi spegnere la tivù, per favore? {{qualifier|infomal}}; Vuole spegnere la televisione, per favore? {{qualifier|formal}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|por favor}}
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Pode desligar a televisão, por favor? {{qualifier|informal}}; Poderia desligar a televisão, por favor? {{qualifier|formal}}; Me faria a gentileza de desligar a televisão, por favor? {{qualifier|very formal}}
* Russian: ''Use the conditional parafrase with negative or imperative with [[пожалуйста]]''
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - ''Телевизор не выключите?'', ''Выключите, пожалуйста, телевизор.''
* Spanish: {{t+|es|por favor}}
** ''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - ¿Podría apagar la televisión, por favor? {{qualifier|infomal}}; Me haría el favor de apagar la televisión? {{qualifier|very formal}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|will}} - present tense of would
* {{l|en|wouldn't}} - negative of would
* {{l|en|wouldst}} - archaic second person singular form of would
* {{l|en|would like}}
* {{l|en|would've}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Something that would happen, or would be the case, under different circumstances; a [[potentiality]].
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1996|author=Fred Shoemaker|title=Extraordinary Golf: The Art of the Possible|page=88|passage=When the golf ball is there, the whole self-interference package — the hopes, worries, and fears; the thoughts on how-to and how-not-to; the '''woulds''', the coulds, and the shoulds — is there too.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|year=2010|author=Shushona Novos|title=The Personal Universal: A Guidebook for Spiritual Evolution|page=395|passage=Shushona you must learn to rightfully prioritize all the '''woulds''', shoulds and coulds of your life.}}

==Adjective==
{{En-adj}}

# (archaic) past participle of [[will]].

===See also===
* {{l|en|could}}
* {{l|en|should}}
* {{l|en|Appendix:English modal verbs}}
* {{l|en|Appendix:English tag questions}}
* {{projectlink|wikipedia|Modal verbs}}

[[Category:English auxiliary verb forms]]
[[Category:English basic words]]
[[Category:English defective verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular simple past forms]]
[[Category:English modal verbs]]