==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|wryngen}}, {{m|enm|wringen}}, from {{inh|en|ang|wringan}}, from {{inh|en|gem-pro|*wringaną}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*wrenǵʰ-}}.

See also {{cog|fy|wringe}}, {{cog|nds|wringen}}, {{cog|nl|wringen}}, {{cog|de|ringen|t=to wrestle}}; also {{cog|lt|reñgtis||to bend down}}, {{cog|grc|ῥίμφα||fast}}, nasalized variant of {{m|ine-pro|*werǵʰ-}} ‘bind, squeeze’. More at {{l|en|worry}}.

====Pronunciation====
* {{enPR|rĭng}}, {{IPA|en|/ɹɪŋ/}}
** {{audio|en|en-us-ring.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{homophones|en|ring}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɪŋ|s=1}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|wrings|wringing|wrung|past2=wrang|past3=wringed|past3_qual=obsolete|past_ptc2=wringed|past_ptc2_qual=obsolete}}

# To [[squeeze]] or [[twist]] (something) tightly so that liquid is forced out. ''See also'' [[wring out]].
#: {{ux|en|I didn’t have a towel so I just '''wrung''' my hair dry.}}
#* '''1838''', {{w|Edgar Allan Poe}}, ''{{w|The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket}},'' London: Wiley and Putnam, Chapter{{nbsp}}13, p.{{nbsp}}152,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/narrativeofarthu00poeerich/page/152]</sup>
#*: {{...}} we contrived to satisfy the cravings of thirst by suffering the shirts to become saturated, and then '''wringing''' them so as to let the grateful fluid trickle into our mouths.
#* {{RQ:Orwell Down and Out|chapter=21|page=154|passage={{...}} he had sometimes '''wrung''' a dirty dishcloth into a customer’s soup before taking it in, just to be revenged upon a member of the bourgeoisie.}}
#* '''1988''', {{w|Anne Tyler}}, ''{{w|Breathing Lessons}},'' New York: Knopf, Part{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}1, p.{{nbsp}}15,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/breathinglessonstyle00tyle]</sup>
#*: “I feel I’ve been '''wrung''' through a wringer,” Maggie said.
# To [[extract]] (a liquid) from something [[wet]], especially [[cloth]], by squeezing and twisting it.
#: {{ux|en|Put the berries into a cheesecloth and '''wring''' the juice into a bowl.}}
#* {{RQ:KJV|Judges|6|38|text=He rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and '''wringed''' the dew out of the fleece.}}
#* '''1748''', {{w|Tobias Smollett}}, ''{{w|The Adventures of Roderick Random}},'' London: J. Osborn, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}14, p.{{nbsp}}107,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004833141.0001.001]</sup>
#*: [He] '''wrung''' the urine out of his [[periwig|perriwig]], and lifting up a large stone, flung it with such force against the street-door of that house from whence he had been [[bedew]]ed, that the lock giving way, it flew wide open,
#* '''1952''', {{w|Zora Neale Hurston}}, ''{{w|Dust Tracks on a Road}},'' New York: Arno Press and The New York Times, 1969, Chapter{{nbsp}}8, p.{{nbsp}}128,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/dusttracksonroad00hurs]</sup>
#*: Heinz could have '''wrung''' enough vinegar out of Cally’s look to run his pickle works.
#* '''1989''', {{w|John Irving}}, ''{{w|A Prayer for Owen Meany}},'' New York: William Morrow, Chapter{{nbsp}}8, p.{{nbsp}}381,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/prayerforowenmeairv00irvi]</sup>
#*: {{...}} he was thrilled by the spectacle of '''wringing''' his own blood from the sodden gauze pad into the sodden towel.
# To [[obtain]] (something ''from'' or ''out of'' someone or something) by [[force]].
#: {{ux|en|The police said they would '''wring''' the truth out of that [[heinous]] criminal.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Henry 6-3|III|1|text=No, Harry, Harry, ’tis no land of thine;<br>Thy place is fill’d, thy sceptre '''wrung''' from thee,}}
#* {{RQ:Richardson Pamela|volume=1|letter=31|page=268|text=Torture should not '''wring''' it from me, I assure you.}}
#* '''1910''', {{w|Emma Goldman}}, “Prisons: A Social Crime and Failure” in ''{{w|Anarchism and Other Essays}},'' New York: Mother Earth Publishing Association, pp.{{nbsp}}129-130,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/anarchismandoth00havegoog/page/n135]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the enormous profits thus '''wrung''' from convict labor are a constant incentive to the contractors to exact from their unhappy victims tasks altogether beyond their strength {{...}}
#* '''1931''', {{w|Pearl S. Buck}}, ''{{w|The Good Earth}},'' New York: John Day, Chapter{{nbsp}}3, p.{{nbsp}}35,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/goodearth00buck]</sup>
#*: He took his life from this earth; drop by drop by his sweat he '''wrung''' food from it and from the food, silver.
#* '''1970''', {{w|Robertson Davies}}, ''{{w|Fifth Business}},'' Toronto: Macmillan, Part{{nbsp}}6, Chapter{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}278,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/fifthbusinessnov0000davi]</sup>
#*: {{...}} his confidences were not '''wrung''' from him against his will but gushed like oil from a well
# To [[draw]] (something ''from'' or ''out of'' someone); to [[generate]] (something) as a [[response]].
#: {{syn|en|elicit|provoke}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing|V|1|text=Your over-kindness doth '''wring''' tears from me!}}
#* '''1846''', {{w|Charlotte Brontë}}, “Evening Solace” in ''{{w|Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell}},'' London: Smith, Elder, p.{{nbsp}}122,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/poemsbycurrerell00bron/page/122]</sup>
#*: And thoughts that once '''wrung''' groans of anguish,
#*: Now cause but some mild tears to flow.
#* {{RQ:Douglass Bondage|chapter=11|page=156|passage=Words like these, I observed, always troubled them; and I had no small satisfaction in '''wringing''' from the boys, occasionally, that fresh and bitter condemnation of slavery, that springs from nature, unseared and unperverted.}}
# To hold (something) tightly and [[press]] or [[twist]].
#: {{syn|en|strangle|throttle}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''wring''' one's hands (with worry, etc.)}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''wring''' someone's hand (i.e. [[shake hands]] with someone)}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''wring''' someone's / an animal's neck}}
#* {{RQ:KJV|Leviticus|1|15|passage=And the Priest shall bring it [a dove] vnto the altar, and '''wring''' off his head, and burne it on the altar: {{...}}}}
#* '''1855''', {{w|Elizabeth Gaskell}}, ''{{w|North and South (Gaskell novel)|North and South}},'' London: Chapman & Hall, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, p.{{nbsp}}195,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/northsouth01gask/page/194]</sup>
#*: Margaret could not speak for crying; but she '''wrung''' his hand at parting.
#* '''1915''', {{w|Lucy Maud Montgomery}}, ''{{w|Anne of the Island}},'' Boston: Page, Chapter{{nbsp}}40, p.{{nbsp}}316,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/anneofisland1920mont/page/316]</sup>
#*: The Haunted Wood was full of the groans of mighty trees '''wrung''' in the tempest,
#* '''1929''', {{w|William Faulkner}}, ''{{w|The Sound and the Fury}},'' New York: Vintage, 1956, “April Eighth, 1928,” p.{{nbsp}}379,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/soundfury00faul]</sup>
#*: Jason stood, slowly '''wringing''' the brim of his hat in his hands.
#* '''2008''', {{w|Aravind Adiga}}, ''{{w|The White Tiger}},'' London: Atlantic Books, p.{{nbsp}}202,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/isbn_9781843547204]</sup>
#*: {{...}} I had to '''wring''' your ears to make you do any work.
# To cause [[pain]] or [[distress]] to (someone / one's heart, soul, etc.).
#: {{syn|en|torment|torture}}
#* '''1622''', {{w|Francis Bacon}}, ''{{w|History of the Reign of King Henry VII|The Historie of the Raigne of King Henry the Seuenth}},'' London: Matthew Lownes and William Barret, p.{{nbsp}}37,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/historieofraigne00baco/page/37]</sup>
#*: {{...}} the King began to find where his Shooe did '''wring''' him, and that it was his depressing of the ''House'' of Y<small>ORKE</small>, that did ranckle and fester the affections of his People.
#* '''1702''', {{w|Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon}}, ''{{w|The History of the Rebellion|The History of the Rebellion and Civil Wars in England}},'' Oxford, 1707, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Part{{nbsp}}1, Book{{nbsp}}, p.{{nbsp}}60,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/historyofrebelli11clar/page/60]</sup>
#*: {{...}} too much griev’d, and '''wrung''' by an uneasy and streight Fortune;
#* {{RQ:Addison Cato|1|1|page=3|url=https://archive.org/details/catotragedyasiti00addi/page/2|text={{...}} didst thou taste but half the Griefs<br>That '''wring''' my Soul, thou cou’dst not talk thus coldly.}}
#* {{RQ:Stevenson Jekyll and Hyde|chapter=Henry Jekyll’s Full Statement of the Case|page=135|url=https://archive.org/details/strangecaseofdrj00stevrich/page/134|text={{...}} a stringent and profound slumber which not even the nightmares that '''wrung''' me could avail to break}}
#* '''1927''', {{w|Virginia Woolf}} ''{{w|To the Lighthouse}},'' London: The Hogarth Press, Part{{nbsp}}3, section{{nbsp}}6, p.{{nbsp}}275,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.176580/page/n265]</sup>
#*: And then to want and not to have—to want and want—how that '''wrung''' the heart, and '''wrung''' it again and again!
# To slide two [[ultraflat]] surfaces together such that their faces bond.
#* '''2010''', Mikhail Grishin, ''Advances in Solid State Lasers: Development and Applications'', BoD – Books on Demand ({{ISBN|9789537619800}}), page 186:
#*: The uncertainty of wringing effect is 6.9 nm, which can be determined by wringing  the same gauge block on the base plate repeatedly. The uncertainty of optical  components can be estimated by wave-front errors of each components, λ/10~&nbsp;...
#* '''2001''', Jennifer E. Decker, Nicholas Brown, Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, European Optical Society, Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Lasertechnik, ''Recent Developments in Traceable Dimensional Measurements: 20-21 June 2001, Munich, Germany'', Society of Photo Optical ({{ISBN|9780819440969}})
#*: The surface finish of the ceramic platen appears very similar to that of the gauge  block by eye . The pack experiment method to evaluate phase correction is  valuable in that the differences associated with wringing two different materials  and&nbsp;...
#* '''1997''', ''Bulletin of NRLM.''
#*: The number of optical wringing procedures performed for each gauge block was  five , and the number of measurements for each wringing procedure was eleven .  Figure 10 shows the dispersion of ( EGB + ESUB ) for gauge block GB - 100A&nbsp;...
#* '''1922''', Canada. Patent Office, ''The Canadian Patent Office Record and Register of Copyrights and Trade Marks''
#*: A gauge block provided with a flat surface adapted to have wringing engagement  with a similar surface of another block and having uniformly distributed  approximately straight scratches extending in all directions. 5. A gauge block  provided&nbsp;...
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[twist]], as if in [[pain]].
#: {{syn|en|writhe}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing|V|1|text={{...}} ’tis all men’s office to speak patience<br>To those that '''wring''' under the load of sorrow.}}
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To give an incorrect meaning to (words, teachings, etc.).
#: {{syn|en|distort|pervert|twist|wrest}}
#* '''1572''', {{w|John Whitgift}}, ''An Answere to a Certen Libel Intituled, An Admonition to the Parliament,'' London: Humfrey Toy, p.{{nbsp}}39,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A15127.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Lord how dare these men thus '''wring''' the scriptures?
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To subject (someone) to [[extortion]]; to [[afflict]] or [[oppress]] in order to [[enforce]] [[compliance]].
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Henry 6-2|V|1|text=To '''wring''' the widow from her custom’d right,}}
#* {{RQ:Hayward Edward 6|page=144|text={{...}} the Merchant aduenturers haue beene often wronged and '''wringed''' to the quicke,}}
# {{lb|en|nautical}} To bend or strain out of its position.
#: {{ux|en|to '''wring''' a [[mast]]}}

=====Derived terms=====
{{der4|en
|hand wringing
|wringable
|wringbolt
|wringer
|wringing wet
|wring out
|wring-stave
}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to squeeze or twist tightly so that liquid is forced out}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|քամել}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|һығыу}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|изстисквам}}, {{t|bg|изцеждам чрез извиване}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|esprémer}}, {{t+|ca|escórrer}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|擰|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|拧|tr=níng|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|絞|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|绞|tr=jiǎo|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|扭|tr=niǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ždímat}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vride}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|uitwringen}}
* Egyptian: {{t-egy|jꜥf|h=i-a:f}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|premtordi}}, {{t|eo|vringi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vääntää}}
* French: {{t+|fr|essorer}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|stuargi}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|espremer}}
* German: {{t+|de|wringen}}, {{t+|de|auswringen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|στείβω}}, {{t+|el|στραγγίζω}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|סחט|tr=sakhát}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|kinyom}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|peras}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|spremere}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|絞る|tr=しぼる, shiboru|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|griezt}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|faast}}
* Mongolian: {{t+|mn|мушгих|sc=Cyrl}}
* Norman: {{t|nrf|teurtre}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|vri}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|vri}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|چلاندن|tr=čelândan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|wyżymać|impf}}, {{t+|pl|wyżąć|pf}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|torcer}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|stoarce}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выжима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́жать|pf}}, {{t+|ru|выкру́чивать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́крутить|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|snìomh}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|исциједити}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|iscijediti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|exprimir}}, {{t+|es|retorcer}}, {{t+|es|escurrir}}, {{t+|es|retorcer}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|vrida ur}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|vắt}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to obtain by force}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|һығыу}}, {{t|ba|һығып алыу}}, {{t|ba|тартып алыу}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|изтръгвам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|esprémer}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|afpersen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|puristaa}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|espremer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|arrancar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выжима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́жать|pf}}, {{t+|ru|вымога́ть|impf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|exprimir}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tvinga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to hold tightly and press or twist}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|стискам}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|retòrcer}}, {{t+|ca|retorçar}}
* Danish: {{t|da|vride}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|wringen}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väännellä}} {{qualifier|hands}}, {{t|fi|[[vääntää]] [[niskat nurin]]}} {{qualifier|neck}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|retorcer}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|remas}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|torcer}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сжима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|сжать|pf}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|snìomh}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|retorcer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to kill an animal by breaking its neck by twisting}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|извивам врата}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|kōwiri}}, {{t|mi|tāwhiri}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|wringen}}, {{t+check|nl|uitwringen}}
* French: {{t+check|fr|tordre}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: {{t-check|ia|exprimer}}, {{t-check|ia|torquer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A powerful [[squeeze|squeezing]] or [[twist]]ing action.
#: ''I grasped his hand and gave it a grateful '''wring'''.''
#* '''1697''', {{w|John Vanbrugh}}, ''{{w|The Relapse}},'' London: Samuel Briscoe, Act{{nbsp}}III, p.{{nbsp}}45,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A65075.0001.001]</sup>
#*: ''Lo[ry].'' {{...}} I have been in a lamentable fright, Sir, ever since your Conscience had the Impudence to intrude into your Company.
#*: ''Y[oung] Fas[hion].'' Be at peace; it will come there no more: My Brother has given it a '''wring''' by the Nose, and I have kick’d it down Stairs.
#* '''1883''', {{w|Robert Louis Stevenson}}, ''{{w|Treasure Island}},'' London: Cassell, Part{{nbsp}}3, Chapter{{nbsp}}15, p.{{nbsp}}123,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/islandtreasure00stevrich/page/122]</sup>
#*: He was still holding me by the wrist, and at that he gave it quite a '''wring'''.
#* '''1919''', {{w|Henry Blake Fuller}}, ''{{w|Bertram Cope's Year|Bertram Cope’s Year}},'' Chicago: Ralph Fletcher Seymour, Chapter{{nbsp}}6, p.{{nbsp}}63,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/bertramcopes00fullrich/page/62]</sup>
#*: I tried not to give his poor hand too much of a '''wring''' (another of my bad habits); but he took all I gave and even seemed to hang on for a little more.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[pain|Pain]] or [[distress]].
#* '''1637''', {{w|Robert Monro}}, ''Monro His Expedition with the Worthy Scots Regiment,'' London, “The first Observation,” p.{{nbsp}}3,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A07628.0001.001]</sup>
#*: When we have good dayes we slight them, when they are gone, we sinke under the '''wring''' of sorrow, for their losse;

====References====
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|en|enm|wrynge|t=press}}, from {{inh|en|ang|wringe}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|archaic}} A device for [[pressing]] or [[compressing]], especially for [[cider]].
#: {{syn|en|press}}
#* {{quote-book|en|author=John Evelyn|title=Sylva, or, A discourse of forest-trees {{...}}|url=http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A38811.0001.001|location=London|publisher=Jo. Martyn and Ja. Allestry |year=1670|page=53|passage=A Friend of mine having made provision of Apples for Cider, whereof so great a part were found rotten when the time of grind∣ing them came, that they did, as 'twere wash the Room with their Juice, through which they were carried to the '''Wring'''.}}
#* {{quote-book|en|title=A treatise on cyder-making, with a catalogue of cyder-apples of character, in Herefordshire and Devonshire. To which is prefixed, A dissertation on cyder and cyder-fruit|author=Hugh Stafford|url=https://books.google.co.nz/books?id=w3AqcyOFlcIC|year=1753|page=48|passage=In order to avoid a great deal of trouble, and to perform the work more effectually, by diveſting the new made Cyder of what pummice and other impurities remain; after straining it through a hair ſieve, on its coming from the '''Wring''', or Preſs, it is neceſſary to be provided with a large open vat, keeve, or clive, which will contain a whole pounding, or making of Cyder{{...}}}}
#* {{quote-book|en|title=The Vintner's, Brewer's, Spirit Merchant's, and Licensed Victualler's Guide|url=https://books.google.co.nz/books?id=w3AqcyOFlcIC|location=London|publisher=W. Whetton|year=1826|page=216|passage=Take any quantity of cider that is old, strong, harsh, or of an inferior quality, and add to it the same quantity of cider from the '''wring''', or press; rouse it up well, and fix it in a warm place, or in the sun, which is certainly the best for its progress{{...}}}}
#* '''1891''', {{w|Thomas Hardy}}, ''{{w|Tess of the d'Urbervilles}},'' London: James R. Osgood, Volume{{nbsp}}2, Phase{{nbsp}}3, Chapter{{nbsp}}23, p.{{nbsp}}32,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/tessofdurbervill02hard/page/32]</sup>
#*: They tossed and turned on their little beds, and the cheese-'''wring''' dripped monotonously downstairs.

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|cider-wring}}
* {{l|en|wring-house}}

[[Category:English class 3 strong verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|nl|Nl-wring.ogg|Audio}}

===Verb===
{{head|nl|verb form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=1|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|wringen}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|wringen}}

----

==Middle English==

===Verb===
{{head|enm|verb}}

# {{alt form|enm|wryngen}}