==English==

===Verb===
{{en-verb|wrings out|wringing out|wrung out}} {{lb|en|transitive}}

# To [[squeeze]] (wet clothing or cloth), either by [[twist|twisting]] with one's hands, or by passing it through a [[wringer]], to [[remove]] the water.
# To [[force]] someone to give (something), usually [[truth]], or [[money]].
#: ''I couldn't help it. I had to tell him. He '''wrung''' it '''out''' of me.''
#: ''They '''wrung''' an extra $500 '''out''' of us for the transfer fees.''
# {{lb|en|aviation}} To push (an aircraft) to its performance limits; to [[push the envelope]].
#* '''1951''', Popular Science, March issue, [http://books.google.ru/books?id=JyEDAAAAMBAJ&lpg=RA1-PA46&ots=ygOwz-VwqE&dq=%22wring%20out%22%20the%20plane&hl=ru&pg=RA1-PA46#v=onepage&q=%22wring%20out%22%20the%20plane&f=false page 46]
#*: Another difficulty has been that autopilots are designed for ordinary flying. They can't "'''wring out'''" a plane, being limited to about 45° in bank and pitch. Aerobatics are an impossibility.
#* '''1983''', Flying Magazine, June issue, [http://books.google.ru/books?id=5rliW6onKxAC&lpg=PA94&ots=txkzgN4IP8&dq=%22wring%20out%22%20airplane&pg=PA94#v=onepage&q=%22wring%20out%22%20airplane&f=false page 94]
#*: Others listening to the conversation felt the same as I did, especially after having seen a local pilot really '''"wring" out''' the airplane at their local air show two weeks earlier.
#* '''2012''', ''When I Get To Heaven'', by Howard Brown, [http://books.google.ru/books?id=u1IVMDhJT68C&lpg=PA39&ots=2lyO3wr679&dq=%22wring%20out%22%20airplane&pg=PA39#v=onepage&q=%22wring%20out%22%20airplane&f=false page 39]
#*: I had no conception of what it meant to ”'''wring out'''" an airplane until I rode with that magnificent man, and I can't remember his name. After he had scorched the paint off that AT-6, he very quietly said, ”Okay, take her back to the field."

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|wring out one's sock}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to remove liquid by squeezing}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выжима́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|вы́жать|pf}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to force to give something}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|выжима́ть}}, {{t+|ru|вымога́ть}}, {{t+|ru|отжима́ть|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English phrasal verbs with particle (out)]]