{{wikipedia|dab=wrong (disambiguation)|wrong}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm}}, from {{etyl|ang}} {{term|wrang||wrong, twisted, uneven|lang=ang}}, of {{etyl|gmq}} origin, from {{etyl|non}} {{term|rangr|lang=non}}, *{{term||wrangr|crooked, wrong|lang=non}}, from {{proto|Germanic|wrangaz|crooked, twisted, turned awry|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|werk'-||werg'-||wrengh-|to twist, weave, tie together|lang=en}}, from {{proto|Indo-European|title=Proto-Indo-European base|wer-|to turn, bend|lang=en}}. Cognate with {{etyl|da|-}} {{term|vrang||wrong, crooked|lang=da}}, {{etyl|nl|-}} {{term|wrang||bitter, sour|lang=nl}}. More at {{l|en|wring}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ɹɒŋ/}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ɹɔŋ/|/ɹɑŋ/}}
* {{audio|En-ca-wrong.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
* {{audio|en-us-wrong.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{rhymes|ɒŋ}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|'''more wrong''' or '''[[wronger]]'''|'''most wrong''' or '''[[wrongest]]'''}}

# [[incorrect|Incorrect]] or [[untrue]].
#: ''Some of your answers were correct, and some were '''wrong'''.''
#* '''1592''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Richard III''; Act II, Scene I, line 54. &mdash; Among this princely heap, if any here By false intelligence or '''wrong''' surmise Hold me a foe...
# [[assert|Asserting]] something [[incorrect]] or [[untrue]].
#: ''You're '''wrong''': he's not Superman at all.''
# [[immoral|Immoral]], not good, [[bad]].
#: ''It is '''wrong''' to lie.''
# [[improper|Improper]]; [[unfit]]; [[unsuitable]].
#: ''A [[bikini]] is the '''wrong''' thing to wear on a cold day.''
# Not working; out of order.
#: ''Something is '''wrong''' with my [[cellphone]]''.
# [[design|Designed]] to be [[worn]] or [[place]]d [[inward]]; as, the '''wrong''' side of a [[garment]] or of a piece of [[cloth]]

====Usage notes====
* {{term||More '''wrong'''}} and {{term||most '''wrong'''}} are preferred in contemporary English. {{term|wronger|Wronger}} and {{term|wrongest}} are currently often used for comedic effect, but were used by Shakespeare in full earnest.

====Synonyms====
* [[injurious]]
* [[unjust]]
* [[faulty]]
* [[detrimental]]
* [[unfit]]
* [[unsuitable]]

====Derived terms====
* [[wrength]]
* [[wrongly]]
* [[wrongful]]

====Antonyms====
* [[right]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|incorrect}}
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{tø|ase|Y@Chin-PalmBack|xs=American Sign Language}}
* Arabic: [[خَطَأ]], {{t|ar|خطأ|tr=khaTa'|alt=خَطَأ|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t-|hy|սխալ|tr=sxal}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|zh|不對|sc=Hani}}, {{t|zh|不对|tr=bùduì|sc=Hani}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|pogrješan}},  {{t-|hr|kriv}}
* Danish: {{t-|da|forkert}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fout}}, {{t+|nl|verkeerd}}, {{t+|nl|onjuist}}, {{t+|nl|mis}}
* Esperanto: {{t-|eo|malĝusta|xs=Esperanto}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|faux}}, {{t+|fr|incorrect}}, {{t+|fr|mauvais}}
* German: [[falsch]], [[verkehrt]]
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|לא נכון|m|tr=lo nakhon}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ग़लत|tr=ġalat|sc=Deva}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|rangur}},  {{t|is|óréttur}}
* Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[incorrecte]], [[erronee]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|sbagliato}},  {{t+|it|errato}},  {{t+|it|erroneo}},  {{t+|it|scorretto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[間違い]] (まちがい, machigai), [[誤ち]](あやまち,ayamachi), {{t|ja|間違う|tr=まちがった, machigatta|alt=間違った|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|誤る|tr=あやまった, ayamatta|alt=誤った|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|違う|tr=ちがった, chigatta|alt=違った|sc=Jpan}}
* Lithuanian: [[neteisingas]], [[klaidingas]], [[blogas]], [[nekorektiškas]]
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|galt}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t+|ang|unriht|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|wrang|xs=Old English}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|błędny|m}},  {{t|pl|mylny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|errado}}, {{t+|pt|incorreto}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|неправильный|tr=n'eprávil'nyj}}, {{t|ru|неверный|tr=n'ev'érnnyj}}, {{t|ru|ошибочный|tr=ošíbočnyj|sc=Cyrl}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|wrang|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[ceàrr]]
* [[Sicilian]]: {{t+|scn|sbagghiatu|xs=Sicilian}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|incorrecto}}, {{t+|es|falso}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel}}, {{t+|sv|felaktig}}, {{t-|sv|inkorrekt}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[తప్పు]] (tappu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|yanlış}}, {{t+|tr|hatalı}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|غلط|tr=ġalat|sc=ur-Arab}}
* [[Volapük]]: {{t|vo|neverätik}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|asserting something incorrect}}
* French: {{t+|fr|tort|alt=avoir tort}} {{qualifier|to be wrong}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|hafa rangt fyrir sér}},  {{t|is|hafa á röngu að standa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|immoral}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|վատ|tr=vat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slecht}}, {{t+|nl|fout}}, {{t+|nl|verkeerd}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|immoral}}, {{t+|fr|mal}}
* German: {{t+|de|schlecht}}, {{t-|de|unrecht}}, {{t+|de|ungerecht}}, {{t-|de|unfair}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|ranglátur}},  {{t+|is|rangur}},  {{t|is|siðferðilega rangur}},  {{t|is|ósiðlegur}},  {{t|is|ósiðsamur}}
* Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[illicite]], [[immoral]], [[mal]]
* Japanese: [[悪]]い(わるい,warui), [[よくない]](yokunai)
{{trans-mid}}
* Lithuanian: [[nemoralus]], [[amoralus]], [[nedoras]], [[nedorovingas]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t+|ang|unriht|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|wrang|xs=Old English}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|errado}}, {{t+|pt|imoral}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|wrang|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[ceàrr]]
* Spanish: {{t+|es|malo}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[తప్పుడు]] (tappuDu)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kötü}}, {{t+|tr|yanlış}}, {{t+|tr|ahlaksız}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|improper}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|slecht}}, {{t+|nl|fout}}, {{t+|nl|verkeerd}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärä}}, {{t+|fi|huono}}, {{t-|fi|sopimaton}}
* French: {{t+|fr|impropre}}, {{t+|fr|mauvais}}
* Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[improprie]]
* Japanese: [[悪]]い(わるい,warui), [[よくない]](yokunai),[[不適当]]な(ふてきとうな,futekitō na),[[不適切]]な(ふてきせつな,futekisetsuna)
* Lithuanian: [[nepadorus]], [[nesąžiningas]], [[neprideramas]], [[netinkamas]]
* [[Old English]]: {{t+|ang|unriht|xs=Old English}}, {{t-|ang|wrang|xs=Old English}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|niewłaściwy|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|errado}}, {{t+|pt|impróprio}}, {{t+|pt|inadequado}}
* [[Scots]]: {{tø|sco|wrang|xs=Scots}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[ceàrr]]
* Spanish: {{t-|es|incorrecto}}, {{t+|es|falso}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[సరికాని]] (sarikaani)
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|uygunsuz}}, {{t+|tr|yanlış}}, {{t+|tr|yersiz}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not working}}
* Croatian: {{t|hr|neispravan}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fout}}, {{t+|nl|verkeerd}}, {{t+|nl|mis}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vika|alt=vialla}}, {{t+|fi|vika|alt=vikaa}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|vera að}}
* Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[a torto]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[具合が悪くて]] (ぐあいがわるくて,guai ga warukute),[[故障]]で(こしょうで, koshōde),[[調子]]が[[狂って]](ちょうしがくるって,chōshi ga kurutte)
* Lithuanian: [[nedirbantis]], [[neveikiantis]], [[sugedęs]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|errado}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel}}
* Turkish: [[hatalı]], [[bozuk]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|designed to be worn or placed inward}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|nurja}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|errado|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
* {{ttbc|Balinese}}: [[pelih]]

====Quotations====
* '''2007''' January 3, Ken Miller, “The Collapse of Intelligent Design: Will the next Monkey Trial be in Ohio?”, Case Western University, Strosacker Auditorium
*: <!--...-->that statement is wrong. Now that's not an incidental statement, that is the heart and soul of the Intelligent Design argument, and in this case it turns out to be wrong. Now it's even '''wronger''' than that [''laughter''] because it turns out that not only do these proteins make up the Type-III Secretory Apparatus but almost every protein in the bacerial flagellum is strongly homologous to proteins that have other functions elsewhere in the cell.

===Adverb===
{{en-adv}}

# In a way that isn't [[right]]; done [[incorrectly]]; [[wrongly]].
#: ''I spelled several names '''wrong''' in my address book.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|done incorrectly}}
* [[American Sign Language]]: {{tø|ase|Y@Chin-PalmBack|xs=American Sign Language}}, ''TH'' mouthing
* Czech: {{t-|cs|špatně}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|fout}}, {{t-|nl|foutief}}, {{t+|nl|verkeerd}}, {{t+|nl|onjuist}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|väärin}},  {{t-|fi|pieleen}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is| rangt}},  {{t|is|vitlaust}},  {{t|is|kolvitlaust}}
* [[Interlingua]]: [[incorrectemente]], [[erroneemente]], [[a torto]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|galt}}
* Portuguese: [[incorretamente]], [[erroneamente]], [[erradamente]]
* Russian: {{t|ru|неправильно|tr=neprávil’no}}, {{t|ru|не так|tr=ne ták}}
* [[Scots]]: [[wrang#Scots|wrang]]
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|ceàrr|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}
* Slovene: [[narobe]]
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# Something that is [[immoral]] or not good.
#: ''Injustice is a [[heinous]] '''wrong'''.''
# The [[incorrect]] or [[unjust]] [[position]] or [[opinion]]. (Or is it the wronged?)
#* '''1592''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry VI'', Part III, Act IV, Scene I, line 101. &mdash; I blame not her: she could say little less; She had the '''wrong'''.
# The [[opposite]] of [[right]]; something which is wrong, particularly [[injustice]].
#* '''1607''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Timon of Athens'', Act IV, Scene III, line 28. &mdash; Thus much of this will make Black white, foul fair, '''wrong''' right, Base noble, old young, coward valiant.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|wrength}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|something immoral}}
* Dutch: [[misstand]] {{m}}, [[wantoestand]] {{m}}, [[onrechtmatig]]e [[daad]] {{f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vääryys}}
* French: {{t+|fr|crime|m}}
* [[Old English]]: {{t+|ang|unriht|n|xs=Old English}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|eucoir|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t|gd|coire|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|crimen}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|incorrect opinion or position}}
* Finnish: [[väärä]] ([[mielipide]] / [[kanta]] / [[näkemys]])
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something incorrect, injustice}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|verkeerde|n}}, {{t+|nl|kwaad|n}}, {{t+|nl|onrecht|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vääryys}}, {{t+|fi|väärä}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|injúria|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Scottish Gaelic]]: {{t-|gd|eucoir|f|xs=Scottish Gaelic}}, {{t|gd|coire|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fel|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[injuria]], [[crimine]], [[peccato]], [[torto]]
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[crime]] {{m}}, [[pecado]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To treat [[unjustly]]; to [[injure]] or [[harm]].
#* ''The [[dealer]] '''wronged''' us by selling us this [[lemon]] of a [[car]].''
#* '''1591''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry VI'', Part I, Act II, Scene IV, line 109. &mdash; Thou dost then '''wrong''' me, as that slaughterer doth Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
# To [[deprive]] of some [[right]], or to [[withhold]] some act of [[justice]].
#* '''1597''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry IV'', Part II, Act IV, Scene I, line 121. &mdash; ... And might by no suit gain our audience. When we are '''wrong'd''' and would unfold our griefs, We are denied access unto his person Even by those men that most have done us wrong.
# To [[slander]]; to [[impute]] [[evil]] to unjustly.
#* '''1598''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Julius Caesar'', Act III, Scene II, line 121. &mdash; O masters! if I were dispos'd to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong, Who (you all know) are honorable men.  I will not do them wrong; I rather choose To '''wrong''' the dead, to '''wrong''' myself and you, Than I will '''wrong''' such honorable men.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|treat unjustly}}
* Dutch: [[benadelen]], [[onrecht]] [[doen]]/[[aandoen]]
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[väärin]], [[tehdä]] [[vääryys|vääryyttä]]
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t|fr|nuire}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|gera rangt til}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|deprive of a right}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[vääryys|vääryyttä]]
* French: {{t|fr|léser}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|beita ranglæti}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|slander or impute evil}}
* Dutch: [[onbillijk]] [[beoordelen]]
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[tehdä]] [[vääryys|vääryyttä]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|ia}}: [[prejudicar]], [[offender]]
* {{ttbc|pt}}: [[lesar]], [[prejudicar]], [[ofender]]
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{rel-top|Terms derived from the adjective, adverb, noun, or verb ''wrong''}}
* [[awrong]]
* [[bark up the wrong tree]]
* [[civil wrong]]
* [[go down the wrong way]]
* [[go wrong]]
* [[in the wrong]]
* [[my country, right or wrong]]
* [[not that there's anything wrong with that]]
* [[put a foot wrong]]
* [[rub somebody the wrong way]]
* [[self-wrong ]]
* [[start off on the wrong foot]]
* [[two wrongs don't make a right]]
* [[two wrongs make a right]]
* [[wrong side of bed]]
* [[wrong 'un]]
* [[wrongdoing]]
{{rel-mid}}
* [[wronger]]
* [[wrong-foot]]
* [[wrongful]]
* [[wrongfully]]
* [[wronghead]]
* [[wrong-headed]]
* [[wrongless]]
* [[wrongly]]
* [[wrongness]]
* [[wrong number]]
* [[wrongous]]
* [[wrong side of the tracks]]
* [[wrong side out]]
* [[wrong-timed]]
* [[wrong way]]
* [[wrong-way concurrency]]
{{rel-bottom}}

===See also===
* [[wrong'd]]
* [[wrung]]

===Statistics===
* {{rank|trouble|die|arm|645|wrong|afraid|merely|struck}}

===Anagrams===
* {{alphagram|gnorw}}
* [[grown#English|grown]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʋroŋ/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|nl-wrong.ogg|Audio (NL)}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|p=wrongen|dim=wrongetje|g=m}}

# {{heraldry|lang=nl}} [[wreath]], a ring made of two strips of cloth intertwined used on top of helmets to soften any blow

===Verb===
{{infl|nl}}

# {{nl-verb-form|n=sg|t=past|m=ind|wringen}}

[[ar:wrong]]
[[et:wrong]]
[[el:wrong]]
[[es:wrong]]
[[fa:wrong]]
[[fr:wrong]]
[[ko:wrong]]
[[hy:wrong]]
[[io:wrong]]
[[id:wrong]]
[[is:wrong]]
[[it:wrong]]
[[kn:wrong]]
[[ka:wrong]]
[[kk:wrong]]
[[ku:wrong]]
[[lo:wrong]]
[[lt:wrong]]
[[li:wrong]]
[[hu:wrong]]
[[ml:wrong]]
[[my:wrong]]
[[nl:wrong]]
[[ja:wrong]]
[[oc:wrong]]
[[pl:wrong]]
[[ru:wrong]]
[[simple:wrong]]
[[fi:wrong]]
[[sv:wrong]]
[[ta:wrong]]
[[te:wrong]]
[[th:wrong]]
[[tr:wrong]]
[[uk:wrong]]
[[vi:wrong]]
[[zh:wrong]]