'''WUBA''' is a multi-purpose acronym used by midshipmen at the [[United States Naval Academy]] in [[Annapolis]], [[Maryland]].  The acronym was originally created by the Academy to define "Working Uniform, Blue Alpha," or the everyday academic attire of midshipmen.  WUBA has since evolved into a derogatory term used to describe female midshipman since the inception of women into the [[Brigade of Midshipmen]] in 1977.  Its use has become an issue of great controversy at the Academy and has contributed to cases of sexual harassment.  

==Definitions==
The following have all come to define WUBA:

Woman Used By All - 
White Uniform, Big Ass - 
When Unfed Becomes Angry - 
Women with Unusually Big Asses -

While some female midshipmen have embraced the term itself in meaning and in behavior, others have countered its condescending definition, and in turn created their own:  Women Underestimated By Assholes

==Modern Context==
Recent Commandant of the Naval Academy RADM [[Charles J. Leidig]] made a speech to the Brigade  referencing the seriousness with which the Academy now takes sexual harassment and the extent to which WUBA has been integrated in Academy culture.  The word has become completely unacceptable to use in public conversation.

The latest example of a wuba, or what is sometimes also just called woob, was during Halloween of 2006. A male midshipman dressed as a tub of ice cream  was chased by an over weight female midshipman with spoon in hand and chocolate covering her mouth and face. Ben & Jerry's is a classical symbol of the wuba.

==External links==
*[http://www.usna.edu]
{{Uncategorized|date=April 2007}}

Of recent history, WUBA, amongst some weather afficianados, stands also for Weather Undergound Bloggers Anonymous, created in 2005 by a blogger known as SWFLsurvivor, or WUBAmama.  It was created right after Katrina devastated the gulf coast, and bloggers on the Wunderground.com site came together in support of the victims of Katrina.  WUBA remains an eclectic group of weather-watchers to this day.


Another usage of the "WUBA" term is the "WUBA chariot," otherwise known as an elliptical exercise machine.