{{wikipedia}}
{{also|Appendix:Variations of "o"|O}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/@U/}}
*: {{audio|en-uk-o.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/oʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/oU/}}
*: {{audio|en-us-o.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Letter===
{{en-noun|o's}}

# The fifteenth letter of the [[Appendix:Roman script|English alphabet]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|es}}
# The name of the letter O. Found in compounds such as ''[[kayo]]'' and ''[[okay]].''
# A [[zero]] {{i|used in reading out numbers}}.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|name of the letter O, o}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ó|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Interjection===
{{en-intj}}

# {{archaic}} (always capitalized) The English [[vocative]] [[particle]], used before a pronoun or the name of a person or persons to mark direct address.
#: '''''O''' foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you?'' -- Galatians 3:1 (King James version).
# Variant of [[oh]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|vocative particle to mark direct address}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|يا|tr=yaa|sc=Arab}},  {{t|ar|أيها|tr='ayyuhaa|sc=Arab}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|ああ|tr=ā|sc=Jpan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Mandarin: {{t|zh|噢|tr=ō|sc=Hani}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ó}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|о|tr=o|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''O'''

# {{IRC}} [[operator|Operator]]
# [[object|Object]], see [[SVO]]
# [[over|Over]]

===See also===
* {{pedialite|blood type}}
* [[O]]

----

==[[Aragonese]]==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|an}} {{term|illo|illō|lang=la}}, ablative form of {{term|ille||that|lang=la}}.

===Article===
{{infl|an|article|gender=m|definite singular}}

# [[the]]
#: '''''O''' río Ebro'' – "The Ebro River"

====Usage notes====
* Becomes {{term|l'|lang=an}} before many words beginning with a vowel.
* The form {{term|lo|lang=an}}, either pronounced as ''lo'' or ''ro'', can be found after words ending with an -o.
* Eastern dialects use the form {{term|el|lang=an}}.

----

==Asturian==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|ast}} {{term|aut|lang=la}}.

===Conjunction===
{{infl|ast|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

----

==Bosnian==

===Preposition===
{{bs-prep}}

# [[about]]
# [[against]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology 1===

====Noun====
{{ca-noun|f}}

# The letter [[O]] (lowercase [[o]]).

===Etymology 2===

====Conjunction====
{{infl|ca|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

[[Category:ca:Latin letters]]

----

==Crimean Tatar==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|crh|pronoun|personal}}

# [[he]], [[she]], [[it]]

===Pronoun===
{{infl|crh|pronoun|demonstrative}}

# [[that]]

====Synonyms====
* (in the northern dialect) [[anav]]

----

==Croatian==

===Preposition===
{{hr-prep}}

# [[about]]

----

==Czech==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Cs-o.ogg|audio}}

===Preposition===
{{cs-prep}}

# [[about]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/oː/|lang=nl}}

===Interjection===
{{infl|nl|interjection}}

# [[oh]]

===Letter===
{{infl|nl|letter|lower case||upper case|O}}

# The fifteenth letter of the [[Dutch alphabet]].

====See also====
* Previous letter: [[n#Dutch|n]]
* Next letter: [[p#Dutch|p]]

----

==Galician==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|gl}} {{term|ille||that|lang=la}}.

===Article===
{{infl|gl|article|g=m|g2=s|feminine singular|a|masculine plural|os|feminine plural|as}}

# {{context|definite}} [[the]]

====Usage notes====
The definite article ''o'' (in all its forms) regularly forms contractions when it follows the prepositions {{term|a||to|lang=gl}}, {{term|con||with|lang=gl}}, {{term|de||of, from|lang=gl}}, and {{term|en||in|lang=gl}}.  For example, ''con o'' ("with the") contracts to {{term|co|lang=gl}}, and ''en o'' ("in the") contracts to {{term|no|lang=gl}}.

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* {{l|gl|ao}}
* {{l|gl|co}}
* {{l|gl|do}}
{{mid2}}
* {{l|gl|no}}
* {{l|gl|ó}}
{{bottom}}

===Pronoun===
{{gl-pron|form=acconly|g=m|nom=el|obl=el|dat=lle}}

# [[him]] (''masculine singular third-person personal pronoun'')

====Usage notes====
The third-person [[direct object]] pronouns {{term|o|lang=gl}}, {{term|os|lang=gl}}, {{term|a|lang=gl}}, and {{term|as|lang=gl}}, have variant forms prefixed with ''l-'' or ''n-''.  These alternative forms appear depending on the ending of the preceding word.  The ''l-'' forms (e.g. {{term|lo|lang=gl}}) are used when the preceding word ends in ''-r'' or ''-s''. The ''n-'' forms (e.g. {{term|no|lang=gl}}) are used when the preceding word ends in a ''-u'' or a diphthong.  These alternative forms are then suffixed to the preceding word.

In all other situations, the standard forms of the pronouns are used ({{term|o|lang=gl}}, {{term|os|lang=gl}}, {{term|a|lang=gl}}, {{term|as|lang=gl}}) and are ''not'' suffixed to the preceding word.

These direct object pronouns also form contractions when they immediately follow an indirect object pronoun.  For example, ''Dou che o'' ("I gave you it.") contracts to ''Dou cho.''

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* {{l|gl|cho}}
* {{l|gl|llelo}}
* {{l|gl|llo}}
{{mid2}}
* {{l|gl|mo}}
* {{l|gl|nolo}}
* {{l|gl|volo}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|gl|a}}
* {{l|gl|os}}

====See also====
* [[Appendix:Galician pronouns]]
* {{l|gl|se}}
* {{l|gl|seu}}

----

==Italian==

===Alternative spellings===
* [[od]] {{i|used optionally before words beginning with a vowel}}

===Conjunction===
{{infl|it|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

===Verb===
{{infl|it|verb}}

# {{misspelling of|ho|lang=Italian}}

----

==Japanese==
{{ja-see-also|ō}}

===Noun===
{{ja-noun|r|hira=お}}

# {{ja-def|尾}} [[tail]]
# {{ja-def|苧}} [[hemp]], [[flax]]
# {{ja-def|緒}} [[cord]], [[strap]]
# {{ja-def|お}} [[hiragana]] character ''o''
# {{ja-def|オ}} [[katakana]] character ''o''

===Particle===
{{ja-pos|r|particle|hira=を}}

# [[direct object]] [[particle]]

===Prefix===
{{ja-pos|r|prefix|hira=お}}

# {{ja-def|御|お}} prefix indicating that the succeeding noun is honorific

----

==Latin==

===Interjection===
{{la-interj|Ō}}

# [[#English|o]]! (vocative particle)
# [[oh]]!

[[Category:Latin letters|O]]

----

==Lithuanian==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|lt|conjunction}}

# [[and]]

----

==Mandarin==

===Pinyin syllable===
'''o'''

# A transliteration of any of a number of Chinese characters properly represented as having one of three tones, [[ō]], [[ó]], or [[ò]].

====Usage notes====
English transcriptions of Chinese speech often fail to distinguish between the critical tonal differences employed in the Chinese language, using words such as this one without the appropriate indication of tone.

[[Category:Mandarin pinyin]]

----

==Polish==

===Preposition===
{{infl|pl|preposition|with|locative}}

# [[about]] (concerning)
#: ''Opowiedz mi '''o''' twojej pracy.''
#:: Tell me about your job.
#: ''Ta książka jest '''o''' potędze miłości.''
#:: This book is about the power of love.
# [[at]] (''telling the time'')
#: ''Spotkajmy się '''o''' piątej po południu.''
#:: Let's meet at five o'clock p.m.
# (''used in descriptions''); [[with]]
#: ''Była piękną kobietą '''o''' długich jasnych włosach.''
#:: She was a beautiful woman with long fair hair.
#: ''chłopiec '''o''' zielonych oczach''
#:: a boy with green eyes; a green-eyed boy

{{infl|pl|preposition|with|accusative}}
# [[against]]
#: ''Nie opierajcie się '''o''' te drzwi.''
#:: Don't lean against this door.
#: ''Dziewczynka uderzyło głową '''o''' stół.''
#:: The little girl hit her head against the table.
# [[for]]
#: ''Weronika poprosiła mnie wczoraj '''o''' pomoc.''
#:: Veronica asked me for help yesterday.
#: ''Walczyliśmy dzielnie '''o''' naszą wolność.''
#:: We were bravely fighting for our freedom.

----

==Portuguese==
{{Portuguese articles}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{hyphenation|o}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|pt}} {{term|ille|lang=la}}.

===Article===
{{infl|pt|article|gender=m|definite singular}}

# [[the]]
#: ''Lá vem '''o''' sol.'' — "Here comes the sun."

===Pronoun===
{{Template:Portuguese personal pronouns}}
{{infl|pt|pronoun|gender=m|personal|}}

# [[him]], [[it]] (''as a direct object; as an indirect object, see'' '''[[lhe]]'''; ''after prepositions, see'' '''[[ele]]''').
#: ''Encontrei-'''o''' na rua.'' – "I met him/it in the street."

====Usage notes====
* Becomes {{term|lo|-lo|lang=pt}} after verb forms ending in ''-r, -s'', or ''-z'', the pronouns {{term|nos|lang=pt}} and {{term|vos|lang=pt}}, and the adverb {{term|eis|lang=pt}}; the ending letter causing the change disappears.
*: After {{term|ver|lang=pt}}: ''Posso vê-'''lo'''?'' = "May I see him/it?"
*: After {{term|por|pôs|lang=pt}}: ''Quero pô-'''lo''' ali.'' = "I want to put him/it there."
*: After {{term|fazer|fiz|lang=pt}}: ''Fi-'''lo''' ficar contente.'' = "I made him/it become happy."
*: After {{term|nos|lang=pt}}: ''Deu-no-'''lo''' relutantemente.'' = "He gave him/it to us reluctantly."
*: After {{term|eis|lang=pt}}: ''Ei-'''lo'''!'' = "Behold him/it!"
* Becomes {{term|na|-na|lang=pt}} after a nasal diphthong: ''-ão, -am'' [ɐ̃w̃], ''-õe'' [õj̃], ''-em, -êm'' [ẽj̃].
*: ''Detêm-'''no''' como prisioneiro.'' = "They detain him/it as a prisoner."
* In Brazil it is being abandoned in favor of the nominative form {{term|ele|lang=pt}}.
*: ''Eu '''o''' vi.'' → ''Eu vi '''ele'''.'' = "I saw him/it."

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[o]|lang=ro}}

===Letter===
{{infl|ro|letter|cat=alphabet|lowercase||capital|O}}

# The eighteenth letter of the [[Romanian alphabet]] representing the phoneme /o/. Preceded by [[n]] and followed by [[p]].

====Usage notes====
See {{term|O|lang=ro}}.

===Article===
{{ro-indef-art}}
{{infl|ro|article|gender=f|indefinite article|}}

# [[a]]/[[an]]
#: '''''o''' [[clădire]] [[mare]]''
#:: a big building

{{-}}

===Interjection===
{{infl|ro|interjection|head=o!}}

# [[oh]]!

===Pronoun===
{{infl|ro|pronoun|unstresed accusative form of|ea}}

# [[her]]
#: '''''o''' cunoşti?''
#:: do you know her?

====Verb====
{{ro-aux|vrea|person=3s|tense=p}}

# (he/she) [[might]]

----

==Scots==

===Preposition===
{{sco-prep}}

# [[of]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

====Alternative forms====
* [[bho#Scottish Gaelic|bho]]

===Preposition===
{{gd-prep}}

# [[from]]

====Derived terms====
* The following prepositional pronouns:
{| class="wikitable"
| Combining
pronoun
| Prepositional
pronoun
| Prepositional
pronoun (emphatic)
|-
| [[mi#Scottish Gaelic|mi]]
| [[uam]]
| [[uamsa]]
|-
| [[tu#Scottish Gaelic|tu]]
| [[uat]]
| [[uatsa]]
|-
| [[e#Scottish Gaelic|e]]
| [[uaithe]]
| [[uaithesan]]
|-
| [[i#Scottish Gaelic|i]]
| [[uaipe]]
| [[uaipese]]
|-
| [[sinn#Scottish Gaelic|sinn]]
| [[uainn]]
| [[uainne]]
|-
| [[sibh#Scottish Gaelic|sibh]]
| [[uaibh]]
| [[uaibhse]]
|-
| [[iad#Scottish Gaelic|iad]]
| [[uapa]]
| [[uapasan]]
|}

----

==Serbian==

===Preposition===
{{sr-prep}}

# [[about]]
# [[against]]

====See also====
* [[о#Serbian|о]]

----

==Slovene==

===Preposition===
{{sl-prep}}

# [[about]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology 1===

====Letter====
'''o'''

# Tenth letter of the Spanish alphabet.

====Noun====
{{es-noun-f}}

# Name of the letter {{term|O}}.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|la|es}} {{term|aut|lang=es}}.

====Alternative spellings====
* [[ó]] (''used near numbers to avoid confusion with a zero:'' 2 ó 3)
* [[u]] (''used before words beginning with an ‘o’ sound:'' u otros, u hombre)

====Conjunction====
{{infl|es|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

----

==[[Tok Pisin]]==

===Conjunction===
{{infl|tpi|conjunction}}

# [[or]]

----

==Turkish==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|tr|pronoun|personal}}

# [[he]], [[she]]

====Related terms====
* [[onu]]
* [[ona]]
* [[onda]]
* [[ondan]]
* [[onlar]]

===Pronoun===
{{infl|tr|pronoun|demonstrative}}

# [[that]]

====See also====
* [[-i]]
* [[-ı]]
* [[-ü]]
* [[-u]]

----

==Welsh==

===Pronoun===
{{infl|cy|pronoun}}

# [[he]], [[him]].

====Usage notes====
''O'' is used predominantly in the north of Wales, while {{term|e|lang=cy}} is used in the south. {{term|fe|Fe|lang=cy}} and {{term|fo|lang=cy}} are variants of {{term|e|lang=cy}} and {{term|o|lang=cy}} respectively.

===Preposition===
{{infl|cy|preposition}}

# [[of]]
# [[from]]

[[ar:o]]
[[an:o]]
[[az:o]]
[[zh-min-nan:o]]
[[br:o]]
[[cs:o]]
[[co:o]]
[[de:o]]
[[et:o]]
[[el:o]]
[[es:o]]
[[eo:o]]
[[fa:o]]
[[fr:o]]
[[gl:o]]
[[ko:o]]
[[hr:o]]
[[io:o]]
[[ia:o]]
[[is:o]]
[[it:o]]
[[ku:o]]
[[la:o]]
[[lt:o]]
[[li:o]]
[[hu:o]]
[[ms:o]]
[[nl:o]]
[[ja:o]]
[[no:o]]
[[pl:o]]
[[pt:o]]
[[ru:o]]
[[st:o]]
[[tn:o]]
[[sq:o]]
[[scn:o]]
[[simple:o]]
[[sk:o]]
[[sl:o]]
[[fi:o]]
[[sv:o]]
[[th:o]]
[[tr:o]]
[[uk:o]]
[[vi:o]]
[[vo:o]]
[[zh:o]]