==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'əʊfeɪ/}}
* Homophones: [[au fait]]
*: {{rhymes|əʊfeɪ}}

===Etymology===
The term first appeared in print in the early 20th century, and may be older still.<ref>[http://www.bartleby.com/61/67/O0036700.html The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language: Fourth Edition.  2000.]</ref>  At least two possible derivations point to the Atlantic slave trade and [[Ivory Coast]]. Most have said the word may be [[pig Latin|Pig Latin]] for "[[foe]] During the 17th through 19th centuries, European traders established coastal ports in present-day Ivory Coast for their increasing traffic in slaves destined for the Americas.  Thus, "Ofay" might derive from the [[Ibibio]] word ''[[afia]],'' which means "Pale," and may have referred to European traders.  "Ofay" might also come from the [[Yoruba]] word ''[[ofe]],'' spoken in hopes of disappearing from danger such as that posed by European traders. Another likely source of the word is the French "[[au fait]]" (lit. "to the point"), a phrase commonly used in English, and sometimes facetiously used to describe a pompous person."

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{US|pejorative|slang}} a [[white]] person.
#* '''1997''': Don DeLillo, ''Underworld'':
#*: ''The rival, the foe, the '''ofay''', veins stretched and bulged between white knuckles.''

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{US|pejorative|slang}} [[white]], white-skinned.
#:* '''1984''': ‘Baby,’ April Elgar said, ‘you may be an uptight '''ofay''' milk-toast limey bastard, but you ain’t no fag.’ — Anthony Burgess, ''Enderby's Dark Lady''
#* '''1959.''' [[w:Lorraine Hansberry|Lorraine Hansberry]], ''[[w:A Raisin in the Sun|A Raisin in the Sun]]'':
#*: ''Everything is strictly peachy keen, as the '''ofay''' kids say.''

===References===
<references/>

[[ru:ofay]]
[[vi:ofay]]
[[zh:ofay]]