==English==

===Etymology===
From {{prefix|off|set|lang=en}}, used to construct the noun form of the verb {{m|en|set off|to set off}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{anchor|1}} Anything that acts as counterbalance; a [[compensating]] [[equivalent]].
#: ''Today's victory was an '''offset''' to yesterday's defeat.''
# {{anchor|2}} {{label|en|international trade}} A form of [[countertrade]] arrangement, in which the seller agrees to purchase within a set time frame products of a certain value from the buying country. This kind of agreement may be used in large international public sector contracts such as arms sales.
# {{anchor|3}} {{label|en|obsolete|c. 1555}} A [[time]] at which something [[begin]]s; [[outset]].
# {{anchor|4}} A [[printing]] method, in which [[ink]] is carried from a metal [[plate]] to a rubber [[blanket]] and from there to the printing surface.
# {{anchor|5}} {{label|en|programming}} The difference between a target memory address and a base address.
#: ''An array of bytes uses its index as the '''offset''', of words a multiple thereof.''
# {{label|en|signal analysis}} The displacement between the base level of a measurement and the signal's real base level.
#: ''The raw signal data was subjected to a baseline correction process to subtract the sensor's '''offset''' and drift variations.''
# {{anchor|6}} The [[distance]] by which one thing is out of [[alignment]] with another.
#: ''There is a small '''offset''' between the switch and the indicator which some users found confusing''.
# {{label|en|surveying}} A short distance measured at right angles from a line actually run to some point in an irregular boundary, or to some object.
# An abrupt [[bend]] in an object, such as a rod, by which one part is turned aside out of line, but nearly [[parallel]], with the rest; the part thus bent aside.
# {{label|en|botany}} A short [[prostrate]] [[shoot]] that takes root and produces a tuft of leaves, etc.
#* {{quote-journal|author=Charles Quest-Ritson|title=The Dutch garden where tulip bulbs live forever: Hortus Bulborum, a volunteer-run Dutch garden, is dedicated to conserving historic varieties before they vanish for good &#91;print version: Inspired by a living bulb archive, 27 September 2014, p.&nbsp;G5&#93;|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/gardening/gardenstovisit/11121226/The-Dutch-garden-where-tulip-bulbs-live-forever.html|work={{w|The Daily Telegraph}} (Gardening)|date=26 September 2014|passage={{...}} [I]nfected tulips are weakened by the viruses that cause the very patterns and swirls that fascinated horticulturists and investors in the first place. Such bulbs tend to dwindle away instead of fattening up and producing '''offsets'''.}}
# A [[spur]] from a [[range]] of hills or mountains.
# {{label|en|architecture}} A horizontal ledge on the face of a wall, formed by a diminution of its thickness, or by the weathering or upper surface of a part built out from it; a [[set-off]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|compensating equivalent}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|обезщетение|sc=Cyrl}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|compensatie}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|hyvitys}}, {{t+|fi|kompensaatio}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|compensation|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|compensação|f}}, {{t+|pt|contrapartida|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|компенса́ция|f}}, {{t+|ru|возмеще́ние|n}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ajuste}}, {{t+|es|descuento}}, {{t+|es|compensación}}, {{t+|es|reducción}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|countertrade arrangement}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|tegenpartij}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kompensaatiokauppa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|contrepartie|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|contropartita|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|time at which something begins}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|begin}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alku}}, {{t+|fi|aloitus}}
{{trans-mid}}
* French: {{t+|fr|début|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|inizio|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|início|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|offset printing}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|ofset|m}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|offsetdruk}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|offsetpaino}}
* French: {{t|fr|impression en offset|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Offsetdruck|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אופסט|tr=offset}}, {{t|he|הדפסת פסט}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ofszet}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|seach-chur|m}}
* Italian: {{t|it|stampa in offset|f}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|offsettrykk|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|offset|m}}, {{t+|pt|ofsete|m}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|офсе́тная печа́ть}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|leac-sgrìobhadh|m}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|impresión Offset}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|offsettryck|n}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|ofset}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|difference in memory addresses}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|offset}}
* German: {{t|de|Adressabstand|m}}, {{t|de|Offset|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|היסט|tr=hesset}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|offset|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|desplazamiento}}
* Turkish: {{qualifier|comp.}} {{t+|tr|öteleme}}, {{qualifier|comp.}} {{t+|tr|uzaklık}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|distance by which one thing is out of alignment with another}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|decalatge|m}}, {{t|ca|decalatges|m-p}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|sprong}}, {{t|nl|verspringing}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|siirros}}, {{t|fi|poikkeama}} ([[linja|linjasta]])
* French: {{t+|fr|décalage|m}}, {{t+|fr|décalages|m-p}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|discrepanza|f}}, {{t+|it|discrepanze|p}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|desalinhamento|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|отступ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|offsets|offsetting|offset|past2=offsetted}}

# To [[compensate]] for something.
#: ''I'll '''offset''' the time difference locally.''
#: ''to '''offset''' one charge against another''
# To form an offset in (a wall, rod, pipe, etc.).

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to compensate for something}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kompensoida}}, {{t+|fi|korvata}}
* French: {{t+|fr|compenser}}, {{t+|fr|contrebalancer}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|compensar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|компенси́ровать}}, {{t+|ru|возмеща́ть}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|compensar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|onset}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|set off}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

----

==Portuguese==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|pt|ofsete}}

===Noun===
{{pt-noun|m|s}}

# {{lb|pt|programming}} {{l|en|offset}} {{gloss|byte difference between memory addresses}}
# {{lb|pt|printing}} {{l|en|offset}} {{gloss|a printing method}}

[[ar:offset]]
[[et:offset]]
[[el:offset]]
[[eo:offset]]
[[fa:offset]]
[[fr:offset]]
[[ko:offset]]
[[hy:offset]]
[[io:offset]]
[[it:offset]]
[[kn:offset]]
[[ku:offset]]
[[hu:offset]]
[[ml:offset]]
[[my:offset]]
[[pl:offset]]
[[pt:offset]]
[[sa:offset]]
[[simple:offset]]
[[sh:offset]]
[[fi:offset]]
[[sv:offset]]
[[tl:offset]]
[[ta:offset]]
[[te:offset]]
[[chr:offset]]
[[vi:offset]]
[[zh:offset]]