{{also|OH|óh|öh|он|өн|애}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/əʊ/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/oʊ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|British oh.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang-en}}
* {{audio|en-us-oh-surprise.ogg|Audio (US) (surprise)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-oh-realization.ogg|Audio (US) (realization)|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|o|owe}}
* {{rhymes|əʊ|lang=en}}

===Interjection===
{{en-interj}}

# Expression of [[surprise]].
#: '''''Oh!'''  I didn't see you there.''
# Expression of [[wonder]], [[amazement]], or [[awe]].
#: '''''Oh''', wow! That's amazing.''
# Expression of [[understanding]], [[recognition]], or [[realization]].
#: '''''Oh''', so that's how it works.''
# A word to precede an [[offhand]] or annoyed remark.
#: '''''Oh''', leave me alone.''
# A word to precede an added or comment or [[afterthought]].
#: '''''Oh''', and don't forget your coat.''
# An invocation or address (similar to the [[vocative]] in languages with noun [[declension]]), often with a tern of endearment.
#: '''''Oh''', [[gosh]]''
#: '''''Oh''', baby''
# Exclamation for drama or emphasis (often poetic).
#: '''''Oh,''' when will it end?''
#* {{w|Sir Walter Raleigh}}
#*: '''Oh''', by what plots, by what forswearings, betrayings, oppressions, imprisonments, tortures, poisonings, and under what reasons of state and politic subtilty, have these forenamed kings {{...}} pulled the vengeance of God upon themselves {{...}}
# Expression of pain.  See [[ouch]].
#: '''''Oh!''' That hurt.''
{{quote-Fanny Hill|part=2
|"'''Oh'''! . . . '''oh'''! . . . I can't bear it . . . It is too much . . . I die . . . I am going . . ." were Polly's expressions of extasy}}
# Space filler or extra syllable, especially in (popular) music.
#: '''''oh, oh, oh'''''
# {{context|interrogative|lang=en}} Expression of mild [[scepticism]]
#: ''"You should watch where you're going!" "Oh?"

====Alternative forms====
Particularly in the context of internet conversations, "oh" is sometimes written with additional Os or Hs - for example, ''oooh'' or ''ohhh''.

====Related terms====
* [[ah]]
* [[o]]
* [[oh no]]
* [[ooh]]
* [[uh-oh]]
* [[oh my]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|expression of surprise}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|وا|tr=wā}}, {{t+|ar|يا|tr=yā}}, {{t|ar|أوه|tr=ʾū, ʾūh|sc=Arab}}
*: Egyptian Arabic: {{t|arz|لاااا|tr=laaa|sc=Arab}}, {{t|arz|ياااا|tr=yaaa|sc=Arab}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|ահ|sc=Armn}}, {{t|hy|օհ|sc=Armn}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|哎呀|tr=āiyā|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|哎哟|tr=āiyō|sc=Hani}}, {{qualifier|different tone expresses different level of surprise}} {{t+|cmn|哦|tr=o, ò, ó|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|呵|tr=hē|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|嗯|tr=ēn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ach}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|o}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|ho}}
* French: {{t+|fr|oh}}, {{t+|fr|ah}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ოჰ|tr=oh|sc=Geor}}, {{t|ka|ახ|tr=ax|sc=Geor}}
* German: {{t+|de|ach}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ω|tr=o|sc=Grek}}, {{t+|el|α|tr=a|sc=Grek}}
* Hiligaynon: {{t|hil|abao|alt=abáo}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|अरे|tr=are|sc=Deva}}, {{t|hi|हे|tr=he|sc=Deva}}, {{t+|hi|ओ|tr=o|sc=Deva}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|ó}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|あら|tr=ara}}, {{t+|ja|おや|tr=oya}}, {{t|ja|まあ|tr=maa}}, {{t+|ja|ああ|tr=aa}}, {{t|ja|へえ|tr=hee|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|お|tr=o|sc=Jpan}}, {{t+|ja|あ|tr=a|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|아|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|오|sc=Kore}}, {{t+|ko|어|sc=Kore}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|oi}}, {{t|ltg|ai}}, {{t|ltg|ek}}, {{t|ltg|a}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ak}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|oh}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|ugh}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|oi}}, {{t+|no|å}}, {{t+|no|ai}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|به|tr=ba|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|och}}, {{t+|pl|ach}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ó}}
* Romanian: {{t-needed|ro}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|о|tr=o}}, {{t+|ru|ой|tr=oj}}, {{t+|ru|ах|tr=ax}}, {{t+|ru|ох|tr=ox}}, {{t+|ru|ого|tr=ohó, ogó|sc=Cyrl}}
* Sanskrit: {{t|sa|अहो|tr=aho|sc=Deva}} {{qualifier|for joyful or painful surprise}}, {{t|sa|हा|tr=hā|sc=Deva}}, {{t|sa|ओ|tr=o|sc=Deva}} {{qualifier|in common speech, informally}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|oj}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|oh}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|åh}}, {{t+|sv|å}}, {{t+|sv|oj}}
* Tagalog: {{t+|tl|ay}}
* Turkish: {{t-needed|tr}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|ồ}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אָ!|sc=Hebr}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# the letter O, o (more commonly spelled [[o]])
# the digit [[0]] (especially in representations of speech)
#: ''My telephone number is four-double-three-two-'''oh'''-nine.''
# An utterance of [[oh]]; a spoken expression of surprise, acknowledgement, etc.
#* Seabert Parsons, ''The Lost Codex of Palenque'' (page 240)
#*: There were '''ohs''' and ahs, and the people twisted about as they looked for her. Then they began to applaud.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|intransitive|lang=en}} To utter the interjection [[oh]]; to express surprise, etc.
#* '''1852''', ''Merry's museum and Parley's magazine'' (volumes 23-24, page 46)
#*: A quarter of an hour elapsed, and then, after several rings at the door-bell, a smothered laugh, and a good deal of '''ohing''' and ahing, the door was thrown open, and one by one, as they were announced, in came the expected characters.

===Anagrams===
* [[ho#English|ho]] , [[Ho#English|Ho]], [[HO#English|HO]]

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/oː/|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-oh.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Interjection===
{{nl-interj}}

# [[#English|oh]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/o/|lang=fr}}
* {{rhymes|o|lang=fr}}

===Interjection===
{{head|fr|interjection}}

# [[#English|oh]]

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

----

==Hungarian==

===Interjection===
{{head|hu|interjection}}

# [[oh#English|oh]]!

[[Category:Hungarian two-letter words]]

----

==Spanish==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/o/|lang=es}}
* {{homophones|o|ó|lang=es}}

===Interjection===
{{es-intj}}

# [[#English|oh]] {{gloss|expression of awe, surprise, pain or realization}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|es|ah}}
* {{l|es|eh}}

[[de:oh]]
[[et:oh]]
[[el:oh]]
[[es:oh]]
[[fr:oh]]
[[ko:oh]]
[[io:oh]]
[[id:oh]]
[[it:oh]]
[[kn:oh]]
[[ku:oh]]
[[li:oh]]
[[hu:oh]]
[[mg:oh]]
[[nl:oh]]
[[ja:oh]]
[[oc:oh]]
[[uz:oh]]
[[pl:oh]]
[[pt:oh]]
[[ro:oh]]
[[sq:oh]]
[[fi:oh]]
[[sv:oh]]
[[ta:oh]]
[[chr:oh]]
[[tr:oh]]
[[vi:oh]]
[[zh:oh]]