{{also|Appendix:Variations of "om"}}
==English==
{{wikipedia|ॐ}}

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|aum}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|sa|en}} {{m|sa|ॐ|tr=oṁ}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ɒm/|/əʊm/|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|Hinduism|Buddhism}} A sacred, mystical syllable used in prayer and meditation.
#* '''1982''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''Constance'', Faber & Faber 2004 (''Avignon Quintet''), p. 800:
#*: In fact it sounded exactly like the voice of Livia, her vanished sister, and, like her, it was intoning the '''''Aum''''' just as she used once to do at the beginning of her yoga sessions.
#* '''2001''', Hazel Curry, ''The Guardian'', 20 Oct 2001:
#*: '''Om''' is pronounced "a-a-o-o-u-u-m-m" and is repeated slowly for as long as possible.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|om mani padme hun}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|sacred syllable}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|唵|sc=Hani|tr=ǎn}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|aum}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|옴|tr=唵, om}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ong}}
* Sanskrit: {{t+|sa|ॐ|tr=oṃ}}
* Tamil: {{t+|ta|ஓம்|sc=Taml}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|ཨོཾ}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|-mo|MO|Mo|m.o.|m/o|mo|mo'}}

[[Category:English two-letter words]]

----

==Aromanian==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|rup|la|homō}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[om]|lang=rup}}

===Noun===
{{head|rup|noun|g=m|plural|oaminj}}

# [[man]], [[person]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|rup|niom}}
* {{l|rup|omã}}, {{l|rup|oamã}}
* {{l|rup|uminilji}}
* {{l|rup|uminiri}}
* {{l|rup|uminescu}}

====See also====
* [[bãrbat]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|ca|la|ulmus}}.

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[elm]]

[[Category:ca:Trees]]

----

==Chickasaw==

===Adjective===
{{head|cic|adjective}}

# [[on]]

----

==Chuukese==

===Determiner===
{{head|chk|determiner}}

# {{alternative spelling of|omw|gloss=your|lang=chk}}

===Related terms===
{{chk-possessive determiners}}

----

==Danish==

===Adverb===
{{da-adv}}

# such that something changes orientation or has its orientation changed
# such that something moves or is moved to the far side of something
#* '''2015''', Karsten H Petersen, ''To mus på tur: en julekalender og en påskekalender'', BoD – Books on Demand (ISBN 9788771704129)
#*: De skal '''om''' på den mørke side af kirken.
#*:: They are going to the dark side of the church.
# such that something is surrounded
#* '''2016''', Ole Henrik Laub, ''Hovedrollen'', Lindhardt og Ringhof (ISBN 9788711701126)
#*: Vred kluden op, vaskede fingeren, viklede papir '''om''' og begyndte igen at skrælle kartofler.
#*:: Wringed the rag, washed the finger, wrapped paper '''around [it]''' and continued peeling potatoes.
# in changing, [[goal]]less directions
#* '''2017''', Hjalmar Söderberg (Translated by Jørgen Årup Hansen), ''Doktor Glas'', Gyldendal A/S (ISBN 9788702243574), page 28
#*: ... hvor længe skal jeg flakke '''om''' i denne gådernes og drømmenes og de uransagelige fænomeners verden?
#*:: ... for how long must I wander '''about''' in this world of the riddles, the dreams and the inscrutable phenomena?
# [[again]], returning to the beginning (whence {{m|da|ommer}}, {{m|da|om igen}}, {{m|da|tro om igen}})
#* '''2014''', [[w:Dennis Jürgensen|Dennis Jürgensen]], ''Måske'', Tellerup A/S (ISBN 9788758814599)
#*: „Nej. Hvis du tror jeg vil se passivt til, mens du ødelægger din mands og dit eget liv med dette martyrium, så må du tro om ...“
#*:: "No. If you think I intend to look on passively while you destroy your husband's and your own life with this martyrium, you will have to think '''again''' ..."
#* '''2016''', Terje Nordberg, ''Det må godt føles rart'', Lindhardt og Ringhof (ISBN 9788711586600)
#*: Jo, jeg har da haft mine nu&#39;er, men hvis jeg skulle gøre det hele om, ville jeg sørge for at have mange flere af dem.
#*:: Sure, I have had my nows, but if I had to do it all '''again''', I would make sure to have many more of them.
#* '''2017''', Morten Sabroe, ''Love Me Do'', Politikens Forlag (ISBN 9788740026726)
#*: Han skrev den '''om''' tre gange.
#*:: He '''re'''wrote it three times.
# such that something is changed (whence {{m|da|lave om}}
#* '''2017''', Sacha Batthyany (Translated by Uffe Gardel), ''Og hvad har det med mig at gøre'', Art People (ISBN 9788771599206)
#*: Men verdenskrisen i 1929 lukkede fabrikken, og indenrigsministeriet overtog den og byggede den '''om''' til et fængsel.
#*:: But the world crisis in 1929 closed down the factory, and the ministry of internal affairs took it and '''re'''built it into a prison.
# going forwards in a book or similar, [[reach]]ing some page
#* '''2014''', Lene Dybdahl, ''Nøglens Vogtere #2: Visigotens Hjelm'', Tellerup A/S (ISBN 9788758812564)
#*: Consuela bladrede langsomt '''om''' på indholdsfortegnelsen.
#*:: Slowly, Consuela turned the pages till she reached the table of contents.
# such that something [[rotate]]s or [[revolve]]s (either of its own accord or by external influence)
#: Ligesom solen drejer '''om''' jorden, således drejer universet '''om''' dig.
#:: Just as the sun revolves '''about''' the earth, so does the universe revolve '''about''' you.

===Conjunction===
{{da-con}}

# [[whether]]
#: Jeg skulle spørge '''om''' du havde fem minutter?
#:: I have been asked to ask [you] '''if''' you have five minutes?
# [[if]]
#: Fjern '''om''' nødvendigt jorden.
#:: '''If''' necessary, remove the dirt.
#: '''Om''' du bare ville lytte, skal jeg forklare alt.
#:: '''If''' only you would listen, I shall explain everything.
# [[if]] (conceding)
#: Hun var '''om''' ikke død, så i hvert fald stærkt såret.
#:: She was, '''if''' not dead, then at least seriously wounded.
# [[even if]]
#* '''2013''', Gyldendal, ''Breve hjem: Danske soldater i Første Verdenskrig'', Gyldendal A/S (ISBN 9788702152333)
#*: ... men du, jeg vil have den; før holder jeg ikke op, '''om''' så jeg skal med i en krig til.
#*:: ... but hey, I want [a medal]; I shall not stop before [getting it], '''even if''' I shall have to go to another war.
# introduces a [[desire]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|whether}} {{l|da|hvorvidt}}
* {{sense|if}} {{l|da|hvis}}
* {{sense|irrespective of}} {{l|da|selvom}}, {{l|da|uagtet}}, {{l|da|på trods af}}
* {{sense|desire}} {{l|da|bare}}, {{l|da|gid}}

===Preposition===
{{head|da|preposition}}

# [[about]]
#: Han viklede dem '''om''' sin lillefinger.
#:: He wrapped them '''around''' his pinky finger.

===References===
* {{R:Den Danske Ordbog}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=nl|/ɔm/}}
* {{audio|Nl-om.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|nl|dum|ombe}}, {{m|dum|omme}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|umbi}}, {{m|odt|umbe}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*umbi}}.

===Preposition===
{{nl-prep}}

# [[around]], [[about]]
# [[at]] (a time)

====Inflection====
{{nl-pronadv-table|om}}

===Adverb===
{{nl-adv}}

# [[around]], [[about]]
# around, [[over]] {{gloss|to another state}}
#: ''Hij zette de schakelaar '''om'''.''
#:: He turned the switch '''over'''.
# over, from an upright to a horizontal position {{gloss|as in "fall over"}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nl|andersom}}
* {{l|nl|omheen}}
* {{l|nl|omtrek}}
* {{l|nl|omweg}}

===Conjunction===
{{nl-con}}

# {{lb|nl|om {{l|nl|te}}}} in order to

===Adjective===
{{nl-adj|pred|-}}

# [[convinced]], [[persuaded]]
#: ''De rechter is '''om'''.''
#:: The judge has been '''persuaded'''.

----

==Friulian==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|fur|omp}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|fur|la|homō}}.

===Noun===
{{fur-noun|m|pl=oms}} or '''[[umign]]'''

# [[man]], [[person]]
# [[husband]]

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|husband}} {{l|fur|marît}}, {{l|fur|cristian}}

====See also====
* {{l|fur|femine}}

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
{{head|id|noun}}

# [[uncle]] {{gloss|The brother or brother-in-law of one’s parent}}
# [[uncle]] {{gloss|form of address to a man by young people or children}}

----

==Middle Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|lang=dum|/om/}}

===Preposition===
{{head|dum|preposition}}

# {{alternative form of|omme|lang=dum}}

===Adverb===
{{dum-adv}}

# {{alternative form of|omme|lang=dum}}

----

==Norwegian Bokmål==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|nb}} {{m|non|um}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɔm/|lang=nb}}

===Preposition===
{{head|nb|preposition}}

# [[around]]
#: ''Bind et rep '''om''' halsen hans!'' (Tie a rope '''around''' his neck!)
# {{lb|nb|when speaking of time}} [[in]] (after a period of time)
#: ''Jeg kommer '''om''' ti minutter.'' (I shall be there '''in''' ten minutes)
# [[about]]
#: ''Vi snakket nettopp '''om''' deg.'' (We were just talking '''about''' you)
# [[during]], in {{gloss|with words for seasons or times of the day}}
#: '''''om''' våren''
#:: '''during''' the spring, '''in''' the springtime
#: '''''om''' kvelden''
#:: '''in''' the evening

===Conjunction===
{{head|nb|conjunction}}

# [[whether]]
#: ''De spurte '''om''' jeg ville komme.'' (They asked whether I would come.)

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nb|selv om}}

===See also===
* {{l|nb|om-}}

===References===
* {{R:The Bokmål Dictionary}}

----

==Norwegian Nynorsk==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|nn}} {{m|non|um}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʊm/|lang=nn}} {{nn-pronu-note}}

===Preposition===
{{head|nn|preposition}}

# [[around]]
#: ''Bind eit reip '''om''' halsen på han!''
#:: Tie a rope '''around''' his neck!
# [[in]] {{qualifier|when speaking of time}} (after a period of time)
#: ''Eg kjem '''om''' ti minutt.''
#:: I shall be there '''in''' ten minutes
# [[in]], in {{qualifier|with words for seasons or times of the day}}
#: '''''om''' våren''
#:: '''in''' the spring, '''in''' the springtime
#: '''''om''' kvelden''
#:: '''in''' the evening
# [[about]]
#: ''Me snakka nettopp '''om''' deg.''
#:: We were just talking '''about''' you
# [[via]]
#: ''Me køyrde til Bergen '''om''' Hardanger''
#:: ''We drove to Bergen '''via''' Hardanger''

===See also===
* {{l|nn|om-}}

===References===
* {{R:The Nynorsk Dictionary}}

----

==Old French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɔm/|lang=fro}}

===Noun===
{{head|fro|noun form|g=m}}

# {{alternative form of|hom|lang=fro}}

----

==Old Provençal==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|pro|ome}}
* {{l|pro|omne}}

===Etymology===
From {{inh|pro|la|homō}}.

===Noun===
{{pro-noun|m}}

# [[man]] {{gloss|male adult human being}}

[[Category:pro:People]]

----

==Polish==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|pl|ohm}}

===Etymology===
Named after the German physicist [[w:Georg Ohm|Georg Ohm]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɔm/|lang=pl}}

===Noun===
{{pl-noun|m-in}}

# [[ohm]]

====Declension====
{{pl-decl-noun-masc-inani|o|m|a}}

[[Category:pl:Units of measure]]

----

==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[om]|lang=ro}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|ro|la|homō}}, from earlier {{m|la|hemō}}, from {{inh|ro|itc-pro|*hemō}}, from {{inh|ro|ine-pro|*ǵʰmṓ||earthling}}.
Compare {{cog|rup|om}}, {{cog|ca|home}}, {{cog|eo|homo}}, {{cog|fr|homme}}, {{cog|ia|homine}}, {{cog|it|uomo}}, {{cog|pt|homem}}, {{cog|sc|ómine}}, {{cog|es|hombre}}.

====Noun====
{{ro-noun|m|oameni}}

# {{lb|ro|now|rare}} [[man]] {{gloss|male}}
# {{lb|ro|regardless of [[gender]]}} [[human]]

=====Declension=====
{{ro-noun-m|pl=oameni|voc=omule}}

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|man}} {{l|ro|bărbat}}
* {{sense|human}} {{l|ro|ființă umană}}, {{l|ro|persoană}}

=====Antonyms=====
* {{l|ro|neom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|ro|omenesc}}
* {{l|ro|omeni}}
* {{l|ro|omenie}}
* {{l|ro|omenire}}
* {{l|ro|omenos}}

=====Related terms=====
* {{l|ro|inuman}}
* {{l|ro|neuman}}
* {{l|ro|uman}}

===Etymology 2===
Auxiliary verb form

====Verb====
{{ro-aux|vrea|person=1p|tense=p}}

# (we) [[might]]
#: '''''om''' [[merge]] [[mâine]] [[undeva]]''
#:: we might go somewhere tomorrow

===Further reading===
* {{R:DEX}}

[[Category:ro:Human]]
[[Category:ro:Primates]]

----

==Swedish==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|non|sv}} {{m|non|um}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|sv}} {{m|gem-pro|*umbi}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|sv}} {{m|ine-pro|*h₂m̥bʰi}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɔm/|lang=sv}}
* {{audio|Sv-om.ogg|audio|lang=sv}}

===Conjunction===
{{head|sv|conjunction}}

# [[if]]

===Preposition===
{{head|sv|preposition}}

# [[about]]
#: ''en bok '''om''' tåg''
#:: a book about trains
#: ''Vad pratar de '''om'''?''
#:: What are they talking about?
# [[in]], [[within]] {{qualifier|when talking about time}}
#: '''''om''' tio minuter''
#:: in ten minutes
# [[around]]
#: ''Han har ett rep '''om''' sin hals''
#:: He's got a rope around his neck
#: ''De flyttade '''om''' möblerna''
#:: They moved the furniture around
#: ''Kocken rörde '''om''' i grytan''
#:: The chef stirred (moved around) the pan
# [[during]], [[in]] {{qualifier|with words for seasons or times of the day}}
#: '''''om''' våren''
#:: during the spring, in the springtime
#: '''''om''' kvällarna''
#:: in the evenings
# [[a]] {{qualifier|only when speaking about daily or yearly frequencies}}
#: ''Han röker fem cigaretter '''om''' dagen''
#:: He smokes five cigarettes a day
#: ''De reser till Finland två gånger '''om''' året''
#:: They go to Finland twice a year
# [[of]]
#: ''till vänster '''om''' kylskåpet''
#:: to the left of the refrigerator
#: ''norr '''om''' staden''
#:: north of the city
#: ''Ta hand '''om''' det!''
#:: Take care of it!

====Related terms====
* {{l|sv|bry sig om}}
* {{l|sv|året om}}
* {{l|sv|även om}}

===Particle===
{{head|sv|preposition}}

# {{non-gloss definition|specifies that a verb is done [[again]], compare English "[[re-]]".}}
#: ''Hon målade '''om''' huset.''
#:: She repainted the house.
#: ''Sara blev tvungen att göra '''om''' läxorna.''
#:: Sara had to do her homework again.

----

==Volapük==

===Pronoun===
{{head|vo|pronoun|plural|oms}}

# [[he]] {{qualifier|third-person masculine}}
# {{lb|vo|obsolete}} [[it]] {{qualifier|third-person neuter}}

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-pronoun}}