{{also|Omnibus|ómnibus}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fr|en}}, from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|omnibus||for all}}, dative plural of {{m|la|omnis||all}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɒmniˌbʌs/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|En-us-omnibus.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-uk-omnibus.ogg|Audio (UK)|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|omnibuses|omnibusses|omnibi}}

# {{lb|en|dated}} A vehicle set up to carry many people (now usually called a [[bus]]).
#* {{RQ:WBsnt IvryGtP}}
#*: Athelstan Arundel walked home all the way, foaming and raging. No '''omnibus''', cab, or conveyance ever built could contain a young man in such a rage. His mother lived at Pembridge Square, which is four good measured miles from Lincoln's Inn.
#* '''1911''', {{w|E. M. Forster}}, ''{{w|The Celestial Omnibus|The Celestial '''Omnibus'''}}''
#*: "Please, is that an '''omnibus'''?" / "''Omnibus'' est," said the driver, without turning round.
#* '''1959''', {{w|Michael Flanders}}, ''{{w|At the Drop of a Hat}}''
#*: '''Omnibus''', my friend Mr. Swann informs me, comes from the Latin ''omnibus'', meaning to or for by with or from everybody, which is a very good description. Well, this song is about a bus, it's wittily subtitled&mdash;I thought of this&mdash;'A Transport of Delight'.
#* '''1988''', {{w|Rowan Atkinson}} as Ebenezer Blackadder in "''{{w|Blackadder's Christmas Carol}}''", written by {{w|Richard Curtis}} and {{w|Ben Elton}}:
#*: Baldrick, I want you to take this [money] and go out, and buy a turkey so large you'd think its mother had been rogered by an '''omnibus'''.
# An [[anthology]] of previously released material linked together by theme or author, especially in book form.
# A broadcast [[programme]] consisting of all of the [[episode]]s of a [[serial]] that have been shown in the previous week.
#: {{ux|en|The '''omnibus''' edition of "The Archers" is broadcast every Sunday morning at 11.00.}}
# {{lb|en|philately}} A stamp issue, usually [[commemorative]], that appears [[simultaneously]] in several countries as a [[joint issue]].

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|bus}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|vehicle}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|омнибус|m}}, {{t+|bg|автобус|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|公共汽車|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|公共汽车|tr=gōnggòng qìchē|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|巴士|tr=bāshì|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|公車|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|公车|tr=gōngchē|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|Taiwan}}, {{t+|cmn|公交車|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|公交车|tr=gōngjiāochē|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|mainland China}}, {{t+|cmn|公交|tr=gōngjiāo|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|mainland China}}, {{t|cmn|公汽|tr=gōngqì|sc=Hani}} {{qualifier|mainland China}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|autobus}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|bus}}
* Faroese: {{t+|fo|bussur|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|linja-auto}}
* French: {{t+|fr|omnibus|m}}, {{t+|fr|bus|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t+|de|Omnibus|m}}, {{t+|de|Bus|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|omnibusz}}, {{t+|hu|autóbusz}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|strætó|m}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|omnibus}}, {{t|ia|autobus}}, {{t|ia|bus}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|autobus|m}}
* Japanese: {{t-check|ja|乗合バス|tr=のりあいばす, noriaibasu|sc=Jpan}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ônibus|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|autobuz|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|авто́бус|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|autobús|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|book}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|сбо́рник|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|compilation}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|compilação|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сбо́рник|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|compilación|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|television programme/program}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ollchlár|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Containing multiple items.
#: ''The legislature enacted an '''omnibus''' appropriations bill.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|containing multiple items}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|всеобхватен|tr=vseobhváten}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|kertaus, yhteenveto, kaikki jaksot}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|oll-}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|omnibuses|pres_3sg2=omnibusses|omnibusing|pres_ptc2=omnibussing|omnibused|past2=omnibussed}}

# {{label|en|transitive}} To combine (legislative bills, etc.) into a single package.

[[Category:en:Philately]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-omnibus.ogg|Audio|lang=fr}}

===Adjective===
{{fr-adj|inv=yes}}

# {{label|fr|rail transport|of a train}} Pertaining to a [[local]] (making stops at all stations)
#: ''Un train '''omnibus'''.''

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|m|omnibus}}

# {{label|fr|dated}} [[omnibus]], [[bus]] (especially, a 19th-century horse-drawn omnibus)

===External links===
* {{R:TLFi}}

[[Category:fr:Rail transportation]]
[[Category:fr:Vehicles]]

----

==Latin==

===Adjective===
{{la-adj-form|omnibus}}

# {{inflection of|omnis||dat|m|p|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnis||dat|f|p|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnis||dat|n|p|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnis||abl|m|p|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnis||abl|f|p|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnis||abl|n|p|lang=la}}
#* '''29 {{smallcaps|bc}}'''. [[w:Vergil|Vergil]]. ''[[w:Georgics|Georgics]]'', III
#*: {{smallcaps|amor '''omnibvs''' idem}}
#*:: Sex is the same for '''all''' of them [viz., every form of man, beast, aquatic or winged life, and livestock]

===Noun===
{{la-noun-form|omnibus|n-p}}

# {{inflection of|omnia||dat|lang=la}}
# {{inflection of|omnia||abl|lang=la}}

[[Category:en:Vehicles]]

[[ca:omnibus]]
[[cs:omnibus]]
[[de:omnibus]]
[[et:omnibus]]
[[el:omnibus]]
[[es:omnibus]]
[[fr:omnibus]]
[[ko:omnibus]]
[[hy:omnibus]]
[[io:omnibus]]
[[id:omnibus]]
[[it:omnibus]]
[[ku:omnibus]]
[[lo:omnibus]]
[[hu:omnibus]]
[[mg:omnibus]]
[[ml:omnibus]]
[[mn:omnibus]]
[[my:omnibus]]
[[nl:omnibus]]
[[ja:omnibus]]
[[uz:omnibus]]
[[pl:omnibus]]
[[ru:omnibus]]
[[sh:omnibus]]
[[fi:omnibus]]
[[sv:omnibus]]
[[ta:omnibus]]
[[te:omnibus]]
[[chr:omnibus]]
[[uk:omnibus]]
[[vi:omnibus]]
[[zh:omnibus]]