==English==

===Alternative forms===
* [[upon the heels of]]

===Preposition===
{{en-prep}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} In close [[pursuit]] of; close [[behind]].
#* '''1915''', [[w:Jack London|Jack London]], ''Mutiny of the Elsinore'', ch. 5:
#*: '''On the heels of''' the little lop-sided man appeared an overgrown dolt of a fat youth, followed by another youth.
#* '''2001''', [[w:Yonatan Netanyahu|Yonatan Netanyahu]], ''The Letters of Jonathan Netanyahu'', ISBN 9789652292674, [http://books.google.ca/books?id=TTudJKJa1MAC&pg=PA288&dq=%22running+on+the+heels+of%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=i6JyU-OaB4Kq8QHG9YGYAg&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=%22running%20on%20the%20heels%20of%22&f=false page 288 (Google preview)]:
#*: [T]he men got out quickly, the first ones running '''on the heels of''' those who had gotten out of the Mercedes.
# {{lb|en|idiomatic|of events, facts, etc.}} Closely [[following]]; in [[succession]] immediately after.
#* '''1603''', [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Hamlet'', act 4, sc. 7:
#*: One woe doth tread '''upon another's heel'''.
#* '''1643''', [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''The Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce'', [http://books.google.ca/books?id=dvVIAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA225&lpg=PA225&dq=%22tread+upon+the+heels+of%22+Milton&source=bl&ots=fxT_jXX47L&sig=m0vnwCNiuzXJQxQ5tTwVOcznzV4&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gJhxU-z3GsyqyAT6rYCQCw&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=%22tread%20upon%20the%20heels%20of%22%20Milton&f=false book 2, ch. 4 (Google preview)]:
#*: To avoid these dreadful consequences, that tread '''upon the heels of''' those allowances to sin, will be a task of far more difficulty.
#* '''1872''', [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''Roughing It'', ch. 77:
#*: [A] familiar voice chimed instantly in '''on the heels of''' my last word.
#* '''1917''', [[w:Upton Sinclair|Upton Sinclair]], ''King Coal'', ch. 32:
#*: [W]hen such accidents kept happening, one '''on the heels of''' another, even the most callous public could not help asking questions.
#* '''2012''' Oct. 13, "[http://www.economist.com/node/21564596 Pakistan’s politics: The peace and love tour]," ''The Economist'':
#*: As it happened, the shooting came '''on the heels of''' a two-day “peace march” against American drone aircraft targeting suspected Islamist militants in Pakistan’s tribal areas close to the border with Afghanistan.

====Usage notes====
* Commonly preceded by such verbs as {{term|follow}}, {{term|tread}}, {{term|come}}.

====Derived terms====
* [[hot on someone's heels]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|in close pursuit of}}
* French: sur les traces de
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|наступа́я на пя́тки}}
{{trans-bottom}}

[[Category:English phrasal prepositions]]