==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
{{root|en|ine-pro|*h₁es-}}
Originally {{der|en|la|ontologia}} (1606, ''Ogdoas Scholastica,'' by {{w|Jacob Lorhard}} (Lorhardus)), from {{der|en|grc|ὤν||on}}, present participle of {{m|grc|εἰμί||being, existing, essence}} + {{m|grc|λόγος||account}}.

First known English use 1663: ''Archelogia philosophica nova; or, New principles of Philosophy. Containing Philosophy in general, Metaphysicks or '''Ontology,''' Dynamilogy or a Discourse of Power, Religio Philosophi or Natural Theology, Physicks or Natural philosophy,'' by Gideon Harvey (1636/7-1702), London, Thomson, 1663.

Popularized as a philosophical term by German philosopher [[w:Christian Wolff (philosopher)|Christian Wolff]] (1679–1754).

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ɒnˈtɒləd͡ʒi/}}
* {{rhymes|en|ɒlədʒi}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|~}}
{{examples|sense=Concepts in ontologies of various subject or world views|examples='''[[atom|Atoms]], [[molecule]]s, [[ion]]s and [[electron]]s''' [[occur]] in the '''ontology of [[chemistry]]'''.<br>'''[[witch|Witches]], [[magic]],''' and '''[[unlucky]] numbers''' occur in the '''ontology of [[superstition]]s'''<br>'''[[theorem|Theorems]], [[constant]]s,''' and '''[[variable]]s''' occur in the '''ontologies of [[axiomatic]] [[structure]]s'''}}
# {{lb|en|uncountable|philosophy}} The branch of [[metaphysics]] that addresses the nature or essential characteristics of [[being]] and of things that [[exist]]; the study of being ''[[qua]]'' being.
#* {{quote-journal|en|author=Michael Inwood|title=Martin Heidegger: the philosopher who fell for Hitler &#91;print version: Hitler's philosopher&#93;|url=http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/10739165/Martin-Heidegger-the-philosopher-who-fell-for-Hitler.html|work={{w|The Daily Telegraph}} (Review)|location=London|date=12 April 2014|page=R10|passage=[[w:Martin Heidegger|&#91;Martin&#93; Heidegger]]'s concern {{...}} was with '''ontology''', the nature of beings, above all humans. The central question for him was "What is being? What is it for something to be?" He tackled this question not by way of the sciences, but by way of an examination of our prescientific daily life. We are, he argued, not cut off from the world by our mental processes: we are "in the world", in direct contact with our surroundings.}}
# {{lb|en|uncountable|philosophy}} In a subject view, or a world view, the set of [[conceptual]] or [[material]] things or [[class]]es of things that are [[recognise]]d as existing, or are [[assume]]d to exist in context; in a body of theory, the ontology comprises the [[domain of discourse]], the things that are defined as existing, together with whatever emerges from their mutual implications.
#*{{quote-text|en|year=2017|author=Daniel C. Dennett|title=From Bacteria to Bach and Back|ISBN=978-0-141-9780-48|passage=Do you believe in [[ghost]]s? Then ghosts are in your '''ontology''', along with tables and chairs and songs and [[vacation]]s, and snow, and all the rest. It has proved more than [[convenient]] to [[extend]] the [[term]] "'''ontology'''" [[beyond]] this [[primary]] meaning and use it for the set of "things" that an animal can [[recognize]] and behave [[appropriately]] with [[regard]] to (whether or not animals can [[properly]] be said to have [[belief]]s) and &mdash; more recently &mdash; the set of "things" a computer program has to be able to deal with to do its job (whether or not ''it'' can [[properly]] be said to have [[belief]]s). [[vacation|Vacations]] are not in the '''ontology''' of a polar bear, but snow is, and so are seals. Snow is [[probably]] not in the '''ontology''' of a [[manatee]], but [[outboard motor|outboard-motor]] [[propeller]]s may well be, along with [[seaweed]] and fish and other manatees. The [[GPS]] [[system]] in your car handles [[one-way]] streets, left and right turns, speed limits, and the [[current]] [[velocity]] of your car (if it isn't zero, it may not let you put in a new [[target]] [[address]]), but its '''ontology''' also [[include]]s a number of [[satellite]]s, as well as [[signal]]s to and from those satellites, which it doesn't [[bother]] you with, but needs if it is to do its job.}}
# {{lb|en|countable|philosophy}} The [[theory]] of a particular philosopher or school of thought concerning the fundamental types of [[entity]] in the [[universe]].
#* '''2000''', [[w:C. D. C. Reeve|C. D. C. Reeve]], ''Substantial Knowledge: Aristotle's Metaphysics'', Hackett Publishing, p. 97:
#*: The answer to the controversial question of whether Aristotle's '''ontology''' includes non-substantial particulars, then, is that it does.
# {{lb|en|logic}} A [[logical system]] involving theory of classes, developed by [[w:Stanislaw_Lesniewski|Stanislaw Lesniewski]] (1886-1939).
# {{lb|en|countable|computer science|information science}} A [[structure]] of concepts or entities within a [[domain]], organized by [[relationship]]s; a [[Wikipedia:Systems modeling|system model]].

====Usage notes====
In the field of philosophy there is some variation in how the term ''ontology'' is used. ''Ontology'' is a much more recent term than ''metaphysics'' and takes its root meaning explicitly from the Greek term for ''being.'' ''Ontology'' can be used loosely as a rough equivalent to ''metaphysics'' or more precisely to denote that subset of the domain of metaphysics which is focused rigorously on the study of being as being.

====Holonyms====
* {{l|en|metaphysics}}

====Derived terms====
{{der3|en|formal ontology
|metaontology
|ontologic
|ontological
|ontologise
|ontologist
|ontologistic
|ontologize
}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|en|ontic}}
* {{l|en|ontically}}
* {{l|en|ontonomy}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|study of being}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|գոյաբանություն}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|ontologia|f}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|本體論|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|本体论|tr=běntǐlùn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ontologie|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ontologie|f}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|verufrøði|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ontologia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ontologie|f}}
* Galician: {{t+|gl|ontoloxía|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ონთოლოგია}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ontologie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|οντολογία|f}}
* Haitian Creole: {{t|ht|ontoloji}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אונטולוגיה|tr=ontológia|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ontológia}}
* Icelandic: {{t|is|verufræði|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ointeolaíocht|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ontologia|f}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|存在論|tr=そんざいろん, sonzairon|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|オントロジー|tr=ontorojī|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|本体論|tr=ほんたいろん, hontairon|sc=Jpan}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|존재론}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ontoloģija|f}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|онтологија|f}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ontologi}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|ontologi|m}}
* Occitan: {{t|oc|ontologia|f}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|ontologia}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ontologia|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ontologie}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|онтоло́гия|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|ontològija|f}}, {{t|sh|онтоло̀гија|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ontología|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|ontologi|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|dalubmagingan}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|varlık felsefesi}}, {{t+|tr|ontoloji}}
* Yiddish: {{t|yi|אָנטאָלאָגיע|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|system model in computer science}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|ontologia|f}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|ontologie|f}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ontologia}}
* French: {{t+|fr|ontologie}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ontologie|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|οντολογία|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|ointeolaíocht|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ontologia|f}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|ontoloģija|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|онтологија|f}}
* Malay: {{t|ms|ontologi}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|ontologi|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ontologia|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ontologie|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|онтоло́гия|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|ontològija|f}}, {{t|sh|онтоло̀гија|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ontología}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Webster 1828}}
* {{R:Webster 1913|ontology}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com}}
* {{R:Lexico}}
* "[http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/11258a.htm ontology]" by F.P. Siegfried, in ''The Catholic Encyclopedia'' (Robert Appleton Company, New York, 1911)
* ''Oxford English Dictionary'', second edition (1989)
* ''Random House Webster's Unabridged Electronic Dictionary'' (1987-1996)
* ''Dictionary of Philosophy'', [[w:Dagobert D. Runes|Dagobert D. Runes]] (editor), Philosophical Library (1962); ''see:'' "Ontology" by James K. Feibleman, page 219
* "[http://tomgruber.org/writing/ontology-definition-2007.htm Ontology]" by Tom Gruber to appear in the Encyclopedia of Database Systems, Ling Liu and M. Tamer Özsu (editors), Springer-Verlag (2008)

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=glnoooty|tonology}}

[[Category:English 4-syllable words]]
[[Category:English words suffixed with -ology]]