==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
'''operational control '''(abbreviated '''OPCON''') is a doctrine and defined as being the "Command authority that may be exercised by commanders at any echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control is inherent in combatant command (command authority) and may be delegated within the command. Operational control is the authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish missions assigned to the command. Operational control should be exercised through the
commanders of subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normally provides full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in operational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of
itself, include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization, or unit training. Also called OPCON. See also combatant command; combatant command (command authority); tactical control." <ref name="JP 1-02">[http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jp1_02.pdf JP 1-02], Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms 08 November 2010 as amended through 15 May 2011 </ref>
===References===
<references />

===Anagrams===
* [[OPCON #English|OPCON]]