==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
#{{rfv-sense}}One who [[oppress]]es or [[hate]]s people of [[sexual orientation]]s other than his own.
#*'''1998''' September 15, Mark Wilden <Mark@mWilden.com>, "Re: Most naive and uninformed American tourists in Europe", ''rec.travel.europe'', et al., Usenet,
#*:And why do you assume that only men appreciate a good-looking woman? And so soon after the Emmies! You '''orientationist''', you!

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}
#[[oppress|Oppressing]] or [[hate|hating]] persons of a certain [[sexual orientation]].
#:Our school does not allow '''orientationist''' remarks or racist remarks about other students as we have a zero discrimination policy.
#*'''1994''' May 16, Andrew John Conway <conway@cup.portal.com>, "Re: Bounce juggling", ''rec.juggling'', Usenet,
#*:Personally I find sissy boys a little too heavy to juggle, as well as being ageist, sexist and '''orientationist''' props.
#*'''2001''' August 24, "jwitt" <james_witted@hotmail.com>, "Re: Should Men Lead Girl Scout Troops?", ''soc.men'', Usenet,
#*:Since they don't, they are truly a private organization and I have no right to complain about any of their decisions, racist, sexist, '''orientationist''', whatever.
#*'''2004''' December 13, Mike Lyle <mike_lyle_uk@REMOVETHISyahoo.co.uk>, "Re: Riggs and Cooper, Cooper and Riggs", ''alt.usage.english'', Usenet,
#*:I don't want to be '''orientationist''' about this, but I think I should point out that such a real man is almost certain to be Julian Clary.