{{also|Orient}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|orient}}, a {{bor|en|fro|orient|nocap=1}}, from {{der|en|la|oriens||rising; as a noun, the quarter where the sun rises, the east, day}}, present participle of {{m|la|oriri||to rise}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˈɔɹ.iː.ɛnt/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To familiarize with a situation or circumstance.
#: ''Give him time to '''orient''' himself within the new hierarchy.''
# {{lb|en|transitive|figurative}} To set the [[focus]] of so as to [[relate]] or [[appeal]] to a certain group.
#: ''We will '''orient''' our campaign to the youth who are often disinterested.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[point]] at or [[direct]] towards.
#: ''I will '''orient''' all of the signs to face the road.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[determine]] which direction one is facing.
#: ''Let me just '''orient''' myself and we can be on our way.''
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[place]] or [[build]] so as to [[face]] [[eastward]].
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To change [[direction]] so as to face [[east]].
# {{lb|en|by extension}} To change direction to face a certain way.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To place (a map or chart) so that its east side, north side, etc., lie toward the corresponding parts of the horizon; {{lb|en|surveying}} specifically, to rotate (a map attached to a plane table) until the line of direction between any two of its points is parallel to the corresponding direction in nature.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|en|orientate}} {{qualifier|UK}}

====Derived terms====
{{der-top|}}
* {{l|en|orientate}} {{qualifier|UK}}
* {{l|en|orientation}}
* {{l|en|orienteer}}
{{der-bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{rel-top|}}
* {{l|en|origin}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to familiarize with a situation or circumstance}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|orientovat|alt=orientovat se}}
* Danish: {{t|da|orientere|alt=orientere sig}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|oriënteren|alt=zich oriënteren}}
* Faroese: {{t|fo|ætta seg}} {{qualifier|rare, literary}}
* French: {{t+|fr|orienter|alt=s'orienter}}
* German: {{t+|de|orientieren|alt=sich orientieren}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|orientarsi}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|orientować się}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|orientar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ориенти́роваться|impf}}, {{t+|ru|сориенти́роваться|pf}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|orientar|alt=orientarse}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|ilantang}}
* Turkish: {{t|tr|oriyantal}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to set the focus of so as to relate or appeal to a certain group}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|orientovat}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|orientar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ориенти́ровать|impf}}, {{t+|ru|сориенти́ровать|pf}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to point or direct towards}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakaanga}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{alternative case form of|Orient|lang=en}} {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
# The part of the [[horizon]] where the [[sun]] first appears in the morning; the [[east]].
#* Tennyson
#*: [Morn] came furrowing all the '''orient''' into gold.
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} A [[pearl of orient]]. {{defdate|19th c.}}
#* '''1890''', {{w|Oscar Wilde}}, ''The Picture of Dorian Gray'', Vintage 2007, page 120:
#*: Henry II wore jewelled gloves reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies and fifty-two great '''orients'''.
#* {{w|Thomas Carlyle}}, from letter quoted in ''Thomas Carlyle; a History of the First Forty Years of His Life'' by {{w|James Anthony Froude}}
#*: The chambers of the East are opened in every land, and the sun comes forth to sow the earth with '''orient''' pearl.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete|poetic}} Rising, like the sun.
#* Milton
#*: Moon, that now meet'st the '''orient''' sun
# [[eastern]]; [[oriental]]
#* Hakluyt
#*: the '''orient''' part
# Bright; lustrous; superior; pure; perfect; pellucid; used of gems and also figuratively, because the most perfect jewels are found in the East.
#* Jeremy Taylor
#*: pearls round and '''orient'''
#* Wordsworth
#*: '''orient''' gems
#* Milton
#*: '''orient''' liquor in a crystal glass

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|tonier}}, {{l|en|trione}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
{{bor|ca|la|oriens|oriens, orientem}}.

===Noun===
{{ca-noun|m}}

# [[Orient]]
# [[east]]

----

==Old French==

===Noun===
{{fro-noun|m|-}}

# {{alternative form of|oriant|lang=fro}}

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
{{bor|ro|fr|orient}}, {{bor|ro|la|oriens|oriens, orientem|notext=1}}.

===Noun===
{{ro-noun|n|-}}

# [[east]], [[Orient]]

====Synonyms====
* {{l|ro|est}} {{q|standard}}, {{l|ro|răsărit}} {{q|somewhat uncommon today}}

====Related terms====
* {{l|ro|oriental}}

[[ca:orient]]
[[de:orient]]
[[et:orient]]
[[el:orient]]
[[eo:orient]]
[[fr:orient]]
[[gl:orient]]
[[ko:orient]]
[[hy:orient]]
[[io:orient]]
[[it:orient]]
[[kn:orient]]
[[ku:orient]]
[[hu:orient]]
[[mg:orient]]
[[ml:orient]]
[[my:orient]]
[[oc:orient]]
[[pl:orient]]
[[ro:orient]]
[[ru:orient]]
[[simple:orient]]
[[fi:orient]]
[[te:orient]]
[[uk:orient]]
[[vi:orient]]
[[zh:orient]]