==English==
{{wikipedia|lang=en}}

===Etymology===
Said to be from {{etyl|oj|en}} {{term|odaawaa||traders|lang=oj}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈɒtəwə/|lang=en}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# An [[Algonquian]] people closely related to the [[Ojibwe]]; also spelt [[Ottowa]].
# The Ottawa dialect of [[Ojibwe]]; also spelt [[Odawa]] or [[odaawaa|Odaawaa]].
# The [[capital]] of [[Canada]], located in the province of [[Ontario]].
#{{context|by [[synecdoche]]|lang=en}} The [[government]] of [[Canada]].
#* '''2005''', "[http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/story/2005/03/23/car-emissions040323.html Ottawa, carmakers reach Kyoto deal]", ''CBC News'', 5 April 2005:
#*: New vehicles will cut emissions by 5.3 megatonnes by 2010 as part of '''Ottawa''''s plans to meet Canada's Kyoto targets.
#* '''2006''', "[http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/story/2006/10/04/literacy-cuts.html Literacy groups demand $17M back from Ottawa]", ''CBC News'', 4 October 2006:
#*: Literacy groups across the country demanded Wednesday that '''Ottawa''' put back the $17.7 million it cut from adult literacy programs last week.
#* '''2008''', "[http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/story/2008/06/10/afghanistan-aid.html Ottawa boosting aid to Afghanistan by $550 million]", ''CBC News'', 10 June 2008:
#*: '''Ottawa''' announced the mission in Afghanistan will have a greater focus on reconstruction, development and security training, with an increase in aid of more than a half a billion dollars.
# A river flowing SE between [[Ontario]] and [[Quebec]] into the [[St. Lawrence]] River.
# A city in Illinois.
# A town in Ohio.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|capital of Canada}} [[National Capital Region]] , [[NCR]] , [[Ottawa-Hull]] , [[Ottawa-Gatineau]] {{gloss|biprovincial metropolitan region}}

====Coordinate terms====
* {{sense|capital of Canada}} [[Hull]] , [[Gatineau]] , [[Mega-Gatineau]] {{gloss|twin city on opposite bank of river}}

====Related terms====
* [[Ottawan]]
* [[Outaouais]]

====Derived terms====
* [[Ottawa-Hull]]
* [[Ottawa-Gatineau]]
* [[Mega-Ottawa]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|capital of Canada}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|اتاوا|tr=Otâvâ}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}
{{checktrans-top}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أوتاوا|f|tr='utaawa}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|Օտտավա|tr=Ottava}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|Атава|f|tr=Atáva}}
* Bulgarian: {{t|bg|Отава|f|tr=Otáva}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|渥太華|sc=Hani}},  {{t+|cmn|渥太华|tr=Wòtàihuá|sc=Hani}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|Otavo}}
* French: {{t+|fr|Ottawa|m}},  {{t+|fr|Outaouais|m}} (1, 4)
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ოტავა|sc=Geor}}
* Greek: {{t|el|Οττάβα|f|tr=Ottáva}}
* Hebrew: {{t|he|אוטווה}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ओटावा|tr=ōṭāvā}}
{{trans-mid}}
* [[Inuktitut]]: {{t|iu|ᐊᑦᑖᕙ|tr=Attava|sc=Cans}}
* Italian: {{t|it|Ottawa}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|オタワ|tr=Otawa}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|오타와|tr=Otawa|sc=Hang}}
* [[Macedonian]]: {{t|mk|Отава|f|tr=Otáva}}
* Maltese: {{t|mt|Ottawa}}
* [[Ojibwe]]: [[odaawaa|ᐅᑖᐙ]] (odaawaa)
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|Otava}}
* Russian: {{t|ru|Оттава|f|tr=Ottáva}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|Ottawa}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ออตตาวา|tr=òt-dtaa-waa}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|Оттава|f|tr=Ottáva}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
* {{langcat|lang=Ojibwe}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A member of the Ottawa people.

[[Category:en:Canada]]
[[Category:en:Capital cities]]
[[Category:en:Cities]]
[[Category:en:Rivers]]

----
==French==
===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|fr}} {{term|Ottawa|lang=en}}, ultimately from {{etyl|oj|fr}} {{term|odaawaa||traders|lang=oj}}

===Proper noun===
{{fr-proper noun}}
# {{l|en|Ottawa}} {{gloss|capital city of Canada}}

====Synonyms====
* [[Région de la capitale nationale]] , [[RCN]] , [[Ottawa-Hull]] , [[Ottawa-Gatineau]] {{gloss|biprovincial metropolitan region}}

====Coordinate terms====
* [[Hull]] , [[Gatineau]] , [[Méga-Gatineau]] {{gloss|twin city on opposite bank of river}}

====Related terms====
* [[Outaouais]]

====Derived terms====
* [[Ottawa-Hull]]
* [[Ottawa-Gatineau]]
* [[Méga-Ottawa]]

[[cs:Ottawa]]
[[de:Ottawa]]
[[es:Ottawa]]
[[eu:Ottawa]]
[[fr:Ottawa]]
[[gl:Ottawa]]
[[ko:Ottawa]]
[[hu:Ottawa]]
[[nl:Ottawa]]
[[pl:Ottawa]]
[[ro:Ottawa]]
[[fi:Ottawa]]
[[sv:Ottawa]]
[[zh:Ottawa]]