==English==

===Etymology===
From {{suffix|ought|ness}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|oughtness|es}}

# {{chiefly|philosophy}} In [[ethics]], the quality which makes an [[action]] [[dutiful]] or [[morally]] [[obligatory]].<ref>''Oxford English Dictionary'', 3rd ed. (2004)</ref>
#* '''1886''', William Mitchell, "Moral Obligation," ''Mind'', vol. 11, no. 41, p. 40:
#*: Every attempt to derive '''oughtness''' from rightness must, as we have shown, either end in an illogical system or destroy the possiblity of a separate science of Ethics at all.
#* '''1958''', [[w:Archie J. Bahm|Archie J. Bahm]], "Aesthetic Experience and Moral Experience," ''The Journal of Philosophy'', vol. 55, no. 20, p. 840:
#*: '''Oughtness''', may I suggest, consists in the power which a greater good has over a lesser good in compelling our choices.
#* '''2002''', Roberta L. Coles, "Manifest Destiny Adapted for 1990s' War Discourse," ''Sociology of Religion'', vol. 63, no. 4, p.415:
#*: Combining the reality of politics with a sense of "'''oughtness'''" creates a sense of duty to the collective.
# {{rare}} The [[state]] or [[characteristic]] of something's being as it ought to be; [[rightness]].<ref>{{R:Webster 1913}}</ref>
# {{rare}} The [[obligatoriness]] of future [[action]]s or future [[state of affairs|states of affairs]] which are morally worthy of being produced through human effort.
#* '''1964''' Dec. 10, [[w:Martin Luther King, Jr.|Martin Luther King]], "Acceptance Speech for the Nobel Peace Prize":
#*: I refuse to accept the idea that the "isness" of man's present nature makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal "'''oughtness'''" that forever confronts him.

===References===
<references/>

===Anagrams===
* [[toughness#English|toughness]]