{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{term|outer|lang=en}} + {{term|space|lang=en}}.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# Region outside explored space.
# Any [[region]] of space beyond limits determined with reference to boundaries of a [[celestial]] system or body, especially the region of space immediately beyond Earth's [[atmosphere]]
# A bluish shade of black
#: {{color panel|outer space ([[w:Pantone|Pantone]])|452f3c}}
#: {{color panel|outer space ([[w:Crayola|Crayola]])|414a4c}}

====Quotations====
; '''Outer space''' ''([[noun]])''
* '''1842''' - Emmeline Stuart-Wortley, ''The Maiden of Moscow'' (1842).
*: The World--that rocks--and heaves--and beams!--
*: A Stormy Sun, itself it gleams!--
*: Keeps this, indeed, its place of old?--
*: All seems down steep Destruction rolled!
*: All Earth in madness moved,--o'erthrown,
*: To outer space--driven--racked--undone!
* '''1849''' - Thomas Buchanan Read, ''Lays and ballads'' (1849).
*: DEATH.
*:: What they who find me make me---Shall we go?
*: OLD MAN.
*:: Whither?
*: DEATH.
*:: Upward---and onward, into outer space,
*:: Where she, thy kindred spirit, waiteth thee.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|region}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فضاء خارجي|tr=faḍāʾ xārijī}}
* Catalan: [[espai exterior]]
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|宇宙|tr=yǔzhòu}}, {{t|cmn|太空|tr=tàikōng}}, {{t|cmn|外層空間}}, {{t|cmn|外层空间|tr=wàicéng kōngjiān}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|ulkoavaruus}}
* French: {{t|fr|espace cosmique|m}}, {{t|fr|cosmos|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Weltraum|m}}, {{t+|de|All|n}}, {{t+|de|Weltall|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t-|he|החלל החיצון|tr=hakhalál hakhitzón}}
* Icelandic: {{t-|is|geimurinn|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t-|it|spazio cosmico|m}}, {{t+|it|cosmo|m}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|宇宙|tr=[[うちゅう]], uchū}}, {{t|ja|宇宙空間|tr=うちゅうくうかん, uchūkūkan}}
* Malay: {{t-|ms|angkasa lepas}}
* Navajo: {{tø|nv|yágháhonikáán}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|فضای بیرونی|tr=fazâ-ye biruni|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kosmos|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|космос|m|tr=kósmos}}, {{t-|ru|открытый космос|m|tr=otkrýtyj kósmos}}, {{t-|ru|космическое пространство|n|tr=kosmíčeskoje prostránstvo}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Roman: [[vasiona]] {{f}}, [[vaseljena]] {{f}}, [[svemir]] {{m}}
* Swedish: {{t-|sv|yttre rymden}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
* {{ttbc|es}}: [[espacio exterior]]

===See also===
* [[Appendix:Colors]]

[[Category:en:Astronomy]]
[[Category:en:Blacks]]
[[Category:en:Colors]]

[[et:outer space]]
[[fr:outer space]]
[[id:outer space]]
[[kn:outer space]]
[[ml:outer space]]
[[ja:outer space]]
[[pl:outer space]]
[[fi:outer space]]
[[ta:outer space]]
[[vi:outer space]]
[[zh:outer space]]