==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|overdon}}, from {{inh|en|ang|oferdōn}}, equivalent to {{af|en|over-|do}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|RP}} {{IPA|/ˌəʊ.vəˈdu/|lang=en}}
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/ˌoʊ.vəɹˈdu/|lang=en}}
* {{homophones|lang=en|overdue}} {{qualifier|US, some dialects}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|overdoes|overdoing|overdid|overdone}}

# To do too much; to [[exceed]] what is proper or true in doing; to carry too far.
#: {{syn|en|exaggerate}}
#: {{ux|en|I '''overdid''' the sweets during the holidays and put on some weight.}}
#* {{circa|1600}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Hamlet}},'' Act{{nbsp}}III, Scene{{nbsp}}2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=hamlet&Scope=entire&pleasewait=1&msg=pl]</sup>
#*: {{...}} o’erstep not the modesty of nature: for anything so '''overdone''' is from the purpose of playing, whose end {{...}} is to hold, as ’twere, the mirror up to nature;
#* '''1636''', {{w|Philip Massinger}}, ''{{w|The Bashful Lover}},''  Act{{nbsp}}I, Scene{{nbsp}}1, in ''Three New Playes,'' London: Humphrey Moseley, 1655, pp.{{nbsp}}1-2,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A50093.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Believe me,
#*: That servant '''overdoes''', that’s too officious;
#*: And in presuming to direct your master,
#*: You argue him of weakness, and your self
#*: Of arrogance and impertinence.
#* '''1776''', {{w|Adam Smith}}, ''{{w|The Wealth of Nations}},'' London: W. Strahan and T. Cadell, Volume{{nbsp}}1, Book{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}5, p.{{nbsp}}54,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004861571.0001.001]</sup>
#*: The merchant importers {{...}} endeavour, as well as they can, to suit their occasional importations to what, they judge, is likely to be the immediate demand. With all their attention, however, they sometimes '''over-do''' the business, and sometimes under-do it.
#* '''1868''', {{w|Louisa May Alcott}}, ''{{w|Little Women}},'' Boston: Roberts Brothers, Part{{nbsp}}1, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, p.{{nbsp}}247,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/littlewomenormeg01alco/page/246]</sup>
#*:  Jo helps me with the sewing, and insists on doing all sorts of hard jobs. I should be afraid she might '''overdo''', if I didn’t know her ‘moral fit’ wouldn’t last long.
#* '''1952''', {{w|Patricia Highsmith}}, ''{{w|The Price of Salt}},'' New York: Norton, 2004, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, p.{{nbsp}}200,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=75zOPUSRy6oC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: Carol had '''overdone''' the ventilation and the room was cold.
# To [[cook]] for too long.
#: {{syn|en|overcook}}
#: {{ant|en|underdo|undercook}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''overdo''' the meat}}
#* '''1765''', {{w|Oliver Goldsmith}}, ''Essays,'' London: W. Griffin, Essay{{nbsp}}5, p.{{nbsp}}43,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004897197.0001.000]</sup>
#*: [He] talked of a feast where he had been the day before, but that the venison was '''over-done'''.
#* '''1851''', {{w|Herman Melville}}, ''{{w|Moby-Dick}},'' New York: Harper & Brothers, Chapter{{nbsp}}64, p.{{nbsp}}332,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/mobydickorwhale01melv/page/331]</sup>
#*: Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by '''overdoing'''. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear?
# To give (someone or something) too much [[work]]; to require too much [[effort]] or [[strength]] of (someone); to use up too much of (something).
#: {{syn|en|overtask|overtax|fatigue|exhaust|wear out}}
#: {{ux|en|to '''overdo''' one’s strength}}
#* '''1620''', {{w|Francis Quarles}}, ''A Feast for Wormes,'' London: Richard Moore, Section{{nbsp}}2,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A10260.0001.001]</sup>
#*: Good God! how poore a thing is wretched man?
#*: So fraile, that let him striue the best he can,
#*: With euery little blast hee’s '''ouerdon'''.
#* '''1680''', {{w|Matthew Stevenson}}, ''The Wits Paraphras’d, or, Paraphrase upon Paraphrase in a Burlesque on the Several Late Translations of {{w|Ovid}}s {{w|Heroides|Epistles}},'' London: Will. Cademan, “Acontius to Cydippe,” p.{{nbsp}}134,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A61492.0001.001]</sup>
#*: And you’re so weak I’le not pursue you,
#*: For fear lest I should '''overdo''' you.
#* '''1799''', {{w|Hannah More}}, ''Strictures on the Modern System of Female Education,'' London: T. Cadell Jun. and W. Davies, Volume{{nbsp}}2, Chapter{{nbsp}}16, p.{{nbsp}}156,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004902140.0001.002]</sup>
#*: {{...}} look abroad and see who are the people that complain of weariness, listlessness, and dejection? You will not find them among such as are '''overdone''' with work, but with pleasure.
#* '''1912''', {{w|Zane Grey}}, ''{{w|Riders of the Purple Sage}},'' New York: Harper, Chapter{{nbsp}}18, p.{{nbsp}}268,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/riderspurplesag01brotgoog/page/n290]</sup>
#*: “Bern, you’re weak—trembling—you talk wildly,” cried Bess. “You’ve '''overdone''' your strength. [...]”
#* '''1934''', {{w|Dorothy L. Sayers}}, ''{{w|The Nine Tailors}},'' London: Victor Gollancz, 1975, “A Full Peal of Grandsire Triples,” Part{{nbsp}}5,<sup>[https://www.fadedpage.com/books/20140327/html.php]</sup>
#*: “Oh!” said Mrs. Venables, “how tiresome it all is. I’m sure you’ll wear your brains right out with all these problems. You mustn’t '''overdo''' yourself. [...]”
# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To do more than (someone); to do (something) to a greater extent.
#: {{syn|en|excel|outdo|surpass}}
#* '''1629''', {{w|James Mabbe}} (translator), ''Deuout Contemplations'' by Cristóbal de Fonseca, London: Adam Islip, Sermon{{nbsp}}2, p.{{nbsp}}36,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A01020.0001.001]</sup>
#*: In a delicate Garden, where Art hath shewed it’s vtmost, yee shall meet with Roses, Gillyflowers, and Fountaines of Alabaster and Iasper; but thou wilt not so much admire this, as if thou shouldst light on these dainties in a Desert, or in some craggie Mountain, where the hand of nature shall '''ouerdoe''' that of art and Industrie.
#* '''1654''', {{w|John Cleveland}}, ''The Idol of the Clownes,'' London, p.{{nbsp}}35,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A33434.0001.001]</sup>
#*: [...] it would be their shame for ever to be '''overdone''' in mischiefe, nor were they here exceeded.
#* '''1709''', {{w|Aaron Hill}}, ''A Full and Just Account of the Present State of the Ottoman Empire,'' London: for the author, Chapter{{nbsp}}4, p.{{nbsp}}28,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004869666.0001.000]</sup>
#*: the ''Turks'' delight but little in the outward Ornament of Houses, nor aspire in the least to '''overdo''' each other in the Europaean Custom of Polite and Solid Architecture, yet do they far more exceed us in the rich Ornaments and Contrivances of their Pavilions,
#* '''1859''', {{w|Alfred, Lord Tennyson}}, ''{{w|Idylls of the King}},'' “Elaine,” London: Edward Moxon, p.{{nbsp}}171,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/idyllsofking00tennrich/page/170]</sup>
#*: But in the field were Lancelot’s kith and kin, {{...}}
#*: Strong men, and wrathful that a stranger knight
#*: Should do and almost '''overdo''' the deeds
#*: Of Lancelot;

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|overdoer}}

====Usage notes====
Until the 19th century, '''overdo''' was often used [[intransitive]]ly (without a [[direct object]]), but this usage is rare in contemporary English, and has been replaced by the phrase '''''overdo it''''', “to do something too much, in an exaggerated way, or in a way that makes one too tired or endangers one's health:” 
: {{ux|en|I think you’ve '''overdone it''' on the food for this evening—there’s enough here to feed an army!}}
: {{ux|en|I wanted to have all the weeding done today, but I '''overdid it''' and now I’m too tired to go out.}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to do too much of something}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|[[做]][[得]][[過分]]|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|[[做]][[得]][[过分]]|tr=zuò de guòfèn|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|přehnat}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overdrijven}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|liioitella}}
* French: {{t|fr|en faire trop}}
* German: {{t+|de|übertreiben}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|παρακάνω}}, {{t+|el|παραξηλώνω}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|túlzásba visz}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|やり過ぎる|tr=yarisugiru}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|exagerar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|перестараться}}, {{t+|ru|переусердствовать}}, {{qualifier|informal}} {{t+|ru|переборщить}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|pretiravati}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to cook too much}}
* French: {{t|fr|[[trop]] [[cuire]]}}
* German: {{t|de|[[zu]] [[lange]] [[kochen]]}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|túlfőz}}, {{t|hu|túlsüt}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t|it|[[cuocere]] [[troppo]]}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|[[cocer]] [[demasiado]]}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to fatigue, to exhaust}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|túlhajszol}}, {{t+|hu|agyonhajszol}}, {{t+|hu|kimerít}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakawhēnanau}}, {{t|mi|whakakoio}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===References===
* {{R:Century 1911}}
* {{R:Webster 1913}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=deoorv|do over|do-over|doover}}

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]