==English==

===Etymology===
{{prefix|over|run|lang=en}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈovərʌn/|lang=en}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|overruns|overrunning|overran|overrun}}
{{lb|en|transitive}}

# To defeat an enemy and [[invade]] in great [[numbers]], [[seizing]] his positions conclusively.
# To [[infest]], [[swarm]] over, [[flow]] over.
#: ''The vine '''overran''' its trellis; the field is '''overrun''' with weeds.''
#* Spenser
#*: those barbarous nations that '''overran''' the world
#* {{quote-journal|date=November 7, 2012|author=Matt Bai|title=Winning a Second Term, Obama Will Confront Familiar Headwinds|work=New York Times|url=http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/07/us/politics/in-president-obamas-second-term-familiar-challenges.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0
|passage=As President Obama turns his attention once again to filling out a cabinet and writing an Inaugural Address, this much is clear: he should not expect to bask in a surge of national unity, or to witness a crowd of millions '''overrun''' the Mall just to say they were there.}}
# To [[run]] [[past]]; to run beyond.
#: ''The athlete '''overran''' the finish line and kept going.''
#: ''One line '''overruns''' another in length.''
#* Bible, 2. Sam. xviii. 23
#*: Ahimaaz run by the way of the plain, and '''overran''' Cushi.
# To [[continue]] for too long.
#: ''The performance '''overran''' by ten minutes, which caused some people to miss their bus home.''
# {{lb|en|printing}} To carry (some type, a line or column, etc.) backward or forward into an adjacent line or page.
# To go beyond; to extend in part beyond.
#: ''In machinery, a sliding piece is said to '''overrun''' its bearing when its forward end goes beyond it.''
# To abuse or oppress, as if by treading upon.
#* Spenser
#*: None of them the feeble '''overran'''.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to defeat an enemy and invade in great numbers}}
* Dutch: [[onder de voet]] lopen, {{t+|nl|overstromen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to infest, swarm over}}
* Dutch: [[onder de voet]] lopen, {{t|nl|overrompelen}}, [[zwermen]] over, {{t+|nl|overstromen}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|pokipoki}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|infestar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|översvämma}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to run past, exceed}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|overschijden}}, {{t|nl|voorbijlopen}}, {{t+|nl|inhalen}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to readjust by shifting the excess letter(s) to the next line}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to continue for too long}}
* Dutch: te lang [[doorbijlopen]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Catalan: {{t-check|ca|excedir}}, {{t-check|ca|envair}}
* French: {{t-check|fr|exceder}}
{{trans-mid}}
* German: {{t-check|de|überrennen}}
* Spanish: {{t-check|es|exceder}}, {{t-check|es|rebasar}}, {{t-check|es|invadir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[instance]] of overrunning
#* '''2013''' June 18, [[w:Simon Romero|Simon Romero]], "[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/world/americas/brazilian-leaders-brace-for-more-protests.html Protests Widen as Brazilians Chide Leaders]," ''New York Times'' <small>(retrieved 21 June 2013)</small>:
#*: Some of the stadiums being built for the World Cup soccer tournament, scheduled for next year, have also been criticized for delays and cost '''overruns''', and have become subjects of derision as protesters question whether they will become white elephants.
# The amount by which something overruns
#: ''At least this year's '''overrun''' isn't as unmanageable as last year!

====Translations====
{{trans-top|instance of overrunning}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overrompeling}}, {{t|nl|overschrijding}}, {{t+|nl|overstroming}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|amount by which something overruns}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|overschrijding}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|run over}}

[[Category:English verbs with base form identical to past participle]]

[[fa:overrun]]
[[fr:overrun]]
[[ko:overrun]]
[[hy:overrun]]
[[io:overrun]]
[[kn:overrun]]
[[ku:overrun]]
[[hu:overrun]]
[[mg:overrun]]
[[ml:overrun]]
[[my:overrun]]
[[ja:overrun]]
[[pl:overrun]]
[[fi:overrun]]
[[ta:overrun]]
[[chr:overrun]]
[[uk:overrun]]
[[vi:overrun]]
[[zh:overrun]]