==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=overlay}}

===Etymology 1===
{{prefix|en|over|lay}}. Compare {{m|en|overlie}}.

====Pronunciation====
; Verb
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|ō'və-lāʹ}}, {{IPA|en|/ˌəʊ.vəˈleɪ/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-overlay (verb).wav ‎|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{enPR|ō'vər-lāʹ}}, {{IPA|en|/ˌoʊvɚˈleɪ/}}
; Noun
* {{a|RP}} {{enPR|ōʹvə-lā'}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈəʊ.vəˌleɪ/}}
* {{audio|en|LL-Q1860 (eng)-Vealhurl-overlay (noun).wav ‎|Audio (UK)}}
* {{a|GenAm}} {{enPR|ōʹvər-lā'}}, {{IPA|en|/ˈoʊvɚˌleɪ/}}
* {{rhymes|en|eɪ}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|overlays|overlaying|overlaid|past2=overlayed}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[lay]], [[spread]], or [[apply]] something over or across; [[cover]].
#* {{rfdatek|en|Edmund Spenser}}
#*: as when a cloud his beams doth '''overlay'''
#* {{rfdatek|en|Milton}}
#*: framed of cedar '''overlaid''' with gold
# To [[overwhelm]]; to press excessively upon.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Sir Walter Raleigh}}
#*: when any country is '''overlaid''' by the multitude which live upon it
# {{lb|en|transitive|now|_|rare|archaic}} To lie over (someone, especially a child) in order to [[smother]] it; to suffocate. {{defdate|from 14th c.}}
#* Bible, 1 Kings iii. 19
#*: This woman's child died in the night, because she '''overlaid''' it.
#* {{rfdatek|en|Dryden}}
#*: a heap of ashes that '''o'erlays''' your fire
#* '''1993''', {{w|Pat Barker}}, ''The Eye in the Door'', Penguin 2014 (''The Regeneration Trilogy''), p. 371:
#*: Prostitutes, thieves, girls who ‘'''overlaid'''’ their babies, abortionists who stuck their knitting needles into something vital – did they really need to be here?
# {{lb|en|transitive|printing}} To put an [[overlay#Noun|overlay]] on.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to lay, or [[spread]], something over or across; to [[cover]]}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|päällystää}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|乗せる|tr=[[のせる]], noseru}}, {{t+|ja|被せる|tr=[[かぶせる]], kabuseru}}, {{t+|ja|覆う|tr=[[おおう]], ōu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|paparua}}, {{t|mi|whakakikorua}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|overwhelm}}

{{trans-top|to smother with a close covering, or by lying upon}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tukahduttaa}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|乗せる|tr=[[のせる]], noseru}}, {{t+|ja|被せる|tr=[[かぶせる]], kabuseru}}, {{t+|ja|覆う|tr=[[おおう]], ōu}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|to put an overlay on}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|peittää}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakakikorua}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|printing}} A piece of paper pasted upon the [[tympan]] sheet to improve the impression by making it stronger at a particular place.
# {{lb|en|betting}} Odds which are set higher than expected or warranted. Favorable odds.
# {{lb|en|horse racing}} A horse going off at higher odds than it appears to warrant, based on its past performances.
# A [[decal]] attached to a [[computer]] [[keyboard]] to [[relabel]] the [[key]]s.
#* {{quote-book|en|year=1994|author=Roger Frost|title=The IT in Secondary Science Book|page=56|passage=The keyboard '''overlay''' can be a memory jogger and a great help with spelling. In this way the keyboard makes word processing more accessible to younger as well as special needs children.}}
# {{lb|en|programming}} A [[block]] of [[program]] [[code]] that is [[load]]ed over something previously loaded, so as to [[replace]] the [[functionality]].
#* '''1986''', Noel M. Morris, ''Computer Graphics and CAD Fundamentals: BBC Micro Version''
#*: This concept can be extended further by allowing a primary '''overlay''' to call a secondary overlay, and so on. However, we will limit ourselves here to the use of primary overlays. Before proceeding further, you need to understand the memory map of the computer, which is a diagram showing the use to which the memory of the computer is put.
# {{lb|en|internet}} A [[pop-up]] covering an existing part of the display.
# {{lb|en|Scotland}} A [[cravat]].

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|printing: piece of paper}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|peitepaperi}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|betting: odds which are higher than expected}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|horse racing}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===

====Verb====
{{head|en|verb form}}

# {{en-simple past of|overlie}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=aelorvy|lay over|layover}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:English phrasal nouns]]