==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|US}} {{IPA|/oʊ.vɚ.ˈθɹoʊ/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-overthrow.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|en|enm|overthrowen}}, equivalent to {{prefix|en|over|throw}}. Compare {{cog|nl|overdraaien}}, {{cog|de|überdrehen}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|overthrows|overthrowing|overthrew|overthrown}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|now|_|rare}} To [[throw]] down to the ground, to [[overturn]].
#* '''1526''', William Tyndale, trans. ''Bible'', John II:
#*: And he made a scourge of smale cordes, and drave them all out off the temple, bothe shepe and oxen, and powred doune the changers money, and '''overthrue''' their tables.
#* Jeremy Taylor
#*: His wife '''overthrew''' the table.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To bring about the [[downfall]] of (a [[government]], etc.), especially by [[force]].
#: ''I hate the current government, but not enough to want to '''overthrow''' them.''
#* Dryden
#*: When the walls of Thebes he '''overthrew'''.
#* Shakespeare
#*: [Gloucester] that seeks to '''overthrow''' religion.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|bring about downfall}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|أَطَاحَ}}
*: Moroccan Arabic: {{t|ary|طيّح|tr=ṭayyaḥ}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|տապալել}}, {{t+|hy|կործանել}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|推翻|tr=tuīfān|sc=Hani}}, {{t+|cmn|打翻|tr=dǎfān|sc=Hani}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|omverwerpen}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|faligi}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kaataa}}
* French: {{t+|fr|renverser}}, {{t+|fr|déposer}}
* German: {{t+|de|stürzen}}, {{t|de|umstürzen}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανατρέπω}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|megdönt}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|kudeta}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|deporre}}, {{t+|it|rovesciare}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|滅ぼす|tr=ほろぼす, horobosu}}, {{t+|ja|転覆|tr=てんぷくする, tenpuku-suru|alt=転覆する}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|taupoki}}, {{t|mi|whakatakahuri }}, {{t|mi|whakataupoki }}
* Nahuatl: {{t|nah|tepeua}}, {{t|nah|tequiua}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|سرنگون کردن|tr=sarnegun kardan|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|برانداختن|tr=barandâxtan|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|obalać}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|derrocar}}, {{t+|pt|derrubar}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сверга́ть|impf}}, {{t+|ru|све́ргнуть|pf}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|svrgnuti}}, {{t+|sh|srušiti}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|derrocar}}, {{t+|es|derribar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|störta}}
* Walloon: {{t+|wa|stårer}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
* {{l|en|overthrowal}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[removal]], especially of a ruler or government, by [[force]] or threat of force.
#* {{RQ:Orwell Animal Farm|1}}
#*: What then must we do? Why, work night and day, body and soul, for the '''overthrow''' of the human race!

=====Hypernyms=====
* {{sense|removal by force}} {{l|en|downfall}}

=====Coordinate terms=====
* {{sense|removal by force}} {{l|en|collapse}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|removal by force or threat of force}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|տապալում}}
* Dutch: {{t+check|nl|ondergang|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|გადატრიალება}}
* German: {{t+|de|Umsturz|m}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ανατροπή|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|whakatakahurihanga}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сверже́ние|n}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t|sh|svrgnuće}}, {{t+|sh|prevrat}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|derrocamiento|m}}, {{t+|es|deposición|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{prefix|over|throw|lang=en}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|overthrows|overthrowing|overthrew|overthrown}}

# {{lb|en|transitive|intransitive}} To throw (something) so that it goes too [[far]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|sports}} A [[throw]] that goes too [[far]].
#: ''He '''overthrew''' first base, for an error.''
# {{lb|en|cricket}} A [[run]] scored by the [[batting]] side when a fielder throws the ball back to the infield, whence it continues to the opposite outfield.

====Quotations====
* ''* {{seeCites}}''

[[ar:overthrow]]
[[et:overthrow]]
[[el:overthrow]]
[[fa:overthrow]]
[[fr:overthrow]]
[[ko:overthrow]]
[[hy:overthrow]]
[[hr:overthrow]]
[[io:overthrow]]
[[kn:overthrow]]
[[ku:overthrow]]
[[lv:overthrow]]
[[hu:overthrow]]
[[mg:overthrow]]
[[ml:overthrow]]
[[my:overthrow]]
[[nl:overthrow]]
[[oc:overthrow]]
[[pl:overthrow]]
[[ru:overthrow]]
[[fi:overthrow]]
[[sv:overthrow]]
[[ta:overthrow]]
[[te:overthrow]]
[[chr:overthrow]]
[[tr:overthrow]]
[[uk:overthrow]]
[[vi:overthrow]]
[[zh:overthrow]]