==English==
{{rfv}}
===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{term|overgangen|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|ofergangan||to pass over, beyond, across, traverse, cross, transgress, overstep, overrun, overcome, overspread, conquer, come upon, overtake, seize, attack, pass off, pass away, end, overreach|lang=ang}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{term/t|gem-pro|*uber||over}} + {{term/t|gem-pro|*ganganą||to walk, step}}, equivalent to {{prefix|over|gang|t2=to walk, step}}. Cognate with {{etyl|sco|-}} {{term|owergang||to overwhelm, master, dominate|lang=sco}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{context|transitive|dialectal|or|obsolete|lang=en}} To go beyond; [[transgress]] or [[trespass]] against.
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|or|obsolete|lang=en}} To [[overrun]]; [[overspread]]; [[outstrip]]; [[outrun]].
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|of time|lang=en}} To [[pass]]; [[elapse]].
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} To [[exceed]]; [[surpass]].
#* '''c. 1600''', unknown author, "Proud Lady Margaret":
#*: Ye're straight and tall, handsome withall, But your pride '''overgangs''' your wit
#* '''c. 1650''', unknown author, ''Eger and Grime''
#*:But at the last it will '''overgang''', Suppose that many think it lang.
#* '''1917''', Amelia Edith Huddleston Barr, ''Christine, a Fife fisher girl'', page 21:
#*: "The trouble is '''overganging''' the profit. Read us one o' King David's psalms or canticles, then we'll go to our sleep wi' a song in our hearts."
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} To [[overdose]] (with medicine); get the better of; [[master]]; [[overpower]]; [[oppress]]; [[treat]] with [[indignity]]. 
#* '''1981''', Christina Larner, ''Enemies of God: the witch-hunt in Scotland'', page 97:
#*: Less dramatically, but packed with economic menace, Elizabeth Bathgate told George Sprot, 'for work what you can your teeth shall '''overgang''' your hands and ye shall never get your Sundays meat to the fore.'
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} To [[oversee]]; [[superintend]].
# To pass over.
#* '''1976''', ''Scottish Mountaineering Club Journal'', volume 51, issues 167-170, page 172:
#*: Climb short '''overganging''' chimney on left wall, exit onto blank slab (extremely difficult), move back right into corner and follow this to stance (130 ft.).

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|overganger}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} *{{term||overgang|lang=enm}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{term|ofergang||a going across|lang=ang}}, equivalent to {{prefix|over|gang}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{context|obsolete|lang=en}} A right of [[way]].
#* '''1587''', Lord Robert of Orkney, "A renunciation" quoted in ''Notes on Orkney and Zetland'', Alexander Peterkin, page 127:
#*: [...] all such udall lands, quoy lands, and others, as was evictit frae them be his Lordship's courts of perambulation, and '''overgangs''', holden upon the lands of the same and divers places thereof, mentioned most specially in his Lordship's court-books, he renounced the same accordingly.
#* '''1892''', ''Quarter Sessions Records of the Peace (Yorkshire North Riding)'', volume 9, page 249:
#*: [...] the preservation of adequate or established footpaths, the creation of new stiles or '''overgangs''', in aid of the same object, in the fences required in the process of inclosure, and so forth.
# A [[transition]]; a [[going]] over or across.
#* '''1883''', George Stephens, ''Prof: S. Bugge's studies on Northern mythology shortly examined'':
#*: Sometimes we can put our finger direct on the '''overgang'''.
#* '''1982''', Perez Zagorin, ''Rebels and Rulers, 1500-1660: Volume 2, Provincial Rebellion'', page 104:
#*: Notwithstanding Orange's instructions for a modus vivendi between confessions, and despite Beggar promises to the towns at the time of their '''''overgang''''' to maintain Catholic freedom, this was not done. 
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} [[oppression|Oppression]].
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} [[superintendence|Superintendence]].
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} An overseer; superintendent; a director of a band of workmen.
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} A coat of paint or plaster; a washing, scouring, or whitewashing.
# {{context|UK|_|dialectal|lang=en}} A harrowing, raking, or scraping.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|?}}

# Being, pertaining to or marked with [[transitional]] [[rune]]s.
#* '''1871''', George Stephens, ''Some Account of Scandinavian Runic Stones'', in ''Archaeologia: Or Miscellaneous Tracts Relating to Antiquity'', page 112:
#*: I first identified it on the '''overgang''' (transitional, Old-Northern mixed with Scandinavian runic letters,) stone at Vordingborg, Denmark, engraved and translated at pp. 336-7 {{...}}
#* '''1884''', George Stephens et al, ''The Old-northern Runic Monuments of Scandinavia and England'':
#*: It was, as I have said under 'Raefsar', Mr. Brusewitz who first suspected that this might be an '''overgang''' stone, a hint so happily followed up by Dr. Charles Dickson.
#* '''1884''', George Stephens, ''Handbook of the old-northern runic monument of Scandinavia'':
#*: On the rim of the Chalice is an '''overgang'''-alphabet of 21 letters, of which only 2 are distinctively later or Scandinavian.
#* '''1894''', George Stephens, ''The Runes, Whence Came They?'', page 65:
#*: Thus an '''overgang''' block. 208. Molde, Gotland, Sweden. The later runes. The name of the Builder. Cannot be further dated.

----

==Dutch==
===Etymology===
From {{compound|over|gang|lang=nl}}. Related to {{term|overgaan|lang=nl}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Nl-overgang.ogg|Audio|lang=nl}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|m|-en|overgangetje}}

# [[transition]]
# [[menopause]]

====Derived terms====
* {{l|nl|overgankelijk}}
* {{l|nl|spoorwegovergang}}

[[fr:overgang]]
[[li:overgang]]
[[mg:overgang]]
[[nl:overgang]]
[[no:overgang]]
[[tl:overgang]]
[[vi:overgang]]