==English==

===Etymology===
{{affix|en|over-|weight}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{sense|adjective}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˌəʊvəˈweɪt/|lang=en}}
** {{a|US}} {{enPR|ō'vər-wātʹ}}, {{IPA|/ˌoʊvɚˈweɪt/|lang=en}}
* {{sense|noun}}
** {{a|UK}} {{IPA|/ˈəʊvəweɪt/|lang=en}}
** {{a|US}} {{enPR|ōʹvər-wāt}}, {{IPA|/ˈoʊvɚweɪt/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|eɪt|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{label|en|of a person}} heavier than what is generally considered healthy for a given body type and height.
# {{label|en|transportation|legal|of a vehicle}} weighing more than what is allowed for safety or legal commerce
#* '''1988''', U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, ''Gearing Up for Safety: Motor Carrier Safety in a Competitive Environment'', ISBN 1428922504, page 38,
#*: All States allow oversized vehicles if a special permit is obtained, although most States will grant '''overweight''' permits only for non-divisible loads.
#* '''1993''', ''Legacy in the Sand: Chemical Command in Operations Desert Shield & Desert Storm'', ISBN 0788104756, page 74,
#*: He got as far as the first weigh station, where troopers found his truck to be '''overweight''' and threatened to pull him off the road.
#* '''1998''', ''Collision of Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District Train 102'', ISBN 1428996532, page 48,
#*: Postaccident examination of the vehicle indicated, for example, that the driver had not adequately maintained his logbook and that his vehicle had been '''overweight''' for travel in Indiana.
# {{label|en|investment|finance|followed by a noun or prepositional phrase indicating a security or type of security}} Having a portfolio relatively heavily invested in.
#: ''Our portfolio is very '''overweight''' (in) Asian technology stocks.''

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|of a person}} [[clinically obese]], [[fat]], [[morbidly obese]], [[obese]], [[super obese]]
* See also [[Wikisaurus:obese]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|of a person, heavier than is healthy}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|[[նորմայից]] [[ավել]] [[քաշ]] [[ունեցող]]}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|йыуан|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t|ba|һимеҙ|sc=Cyrl}}
* Chinese:
*: Dutch: {{t|nl|te zwaar}}
*: Mandarin: {{t-needed|cmn}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|superpeza}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ylipainoinen}}
* French: {{t|fr|en surpoids}}
* German: {{t+|de|übergewichtig}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπέρβαρος|m}}
* Hebrew: {{t-needed|he}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|túlsúlyos}}
* Italian: {{t|it|in sovrappeso}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|[[メタボ]]な|tr=metabo na|sc=Jpan}} {{qualifier|informal}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|katete}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|overvektig}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|[[com]] [[excesso]] [[de]] [[peso]]}}
* Russian: {{t-needed|ru}}
* Spanish: {{t|es|con sobrepeso}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|överviktig}}
* Thai: {{t-needed|th}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|of a vehicle, weighing more than is allowed}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|te zwaar}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|ylipainoinen}}
* German: {{t+|de|überladen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|υπέρβαρος|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* {{ttbc|nl}}: te [[zwaar]]
* {{ttbc|te}}: [[స్థూలకాయం]] (sthoolakaayaM) (1), [[అధిక బరువు]] (adhikabaruvu) (2)
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{label|en|chiefly|transport|legal|healthcare}} An [[excess]] of weight.
#* '''1976''', ''Acts of the Legislature'' of Louisiana, volume 1, page 445:
#*: {{...}} and shall pay not only the amount of the permit fee for overlength, overheight, overwidth or '''overweight''' as might be due, but an additional civil penalty of fifty dollars for the first offense, one hundred dollars for the second offense and one hundred fifty dollars for each additional offense; {{...}}
#* '''2007''', Josephine Martin, Charlotte Oakley, ''Managing child nutrition programs: leadership for excellence'', page 462:
#*: SCHOOL MEAL ISSUES FOR CHILDREN AT RISK FOR '''OVERWEIGHT'''
# {{label|en|investment|finance}} A security or class of securities in which one has a heavy concentration.
#: ''Apple common stock is one of our '''overweights'''.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|excess of weight}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|overgewicht|n}}
* German: {{t+|de|Übergewicht|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|súlytöbblet}}, {{t+|hu|többletsúly}}, {{t+|hu|túlsúly}}
* Persian: {{t|fa|اضافه‌وزن|tr=ezâfe-vazn|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|övervikt|c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To place excessive [[weight]] or [[emphasis]] on; to overestimate the importance of. {{defdate|from 17th c.}}
#* {{RQ:Flr Mntgn Essays}}, II.8:
#*: We also '''over-weight''' such vaine future conjectures, which infant-spirits give us.
#* {{quote-news|2009|January 11|Geraldine Fabrikant|work=New York Times|title=[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/11/business/mutfund/11safe.html How Safe Is That Nest Egg, Anyhow?]
|passage=Kinnel explained it, the problem at Select High Income was that it '''overweighted''' mortgage bonds and underweighted other types of corporate debt, a strategy that backfired when the mortgage market collapsed.}}

====Antonyms====
* [[underweight]]

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:en:Obesity]]

[[ca:overweight]]
[[et:overweight]]
[[es:overweight]]
[[fa:overweight]]
[[fr:overweight]]
[[ko:overweight]]
[[hy:overweight]]
[[io:overweight]]
[[it:overweight]]
[[kn:overweight]]
[[ku:overweight]]
[[hu:overweight]]
[[ml:overweight]]
[[my:overweight]]
[[pl:overweight]]
[[ru:overweight]]
[[fi:overweight]]
[[sv:overweight]]
[[ta:overweight]]
[[te:overweight]]
[[vi:overweight]]
[[zh:overweight]]