==English==

===Etymology 1===
From {{prefix|over|blow|t2=to flower, bloom|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|overblows|overblowing|overblew|overblown}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[cover]] with [[blossom]]s or [[flower]]s.

===Etymology 2===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|overblowen}}, equivalent to {{prefix|over|blow|lang=en}}.

====Verb====
{{en-verb|overblows|overblowing|overblew|overblown}}

# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To blow over; pass over; pass away.
#* '''1610''', ''[[s:The Tempest|The Tempest]]'', by [[w:William Shakespeare|Shakespeare]], act 2 scene 2
#*: But art thou not drown'd, Stephano? I hope now thou are / not drown'd. Is the storm '''overblown'''?
# {{lb|en|intransitive}} To blow hard or with much violence.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To blow over or across.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To blow away; [[dissipate]] by or as by wind.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[exaggerate]] the [[significance]] of something.
#* '''2006''', Jock Lauterer, ''Community Journalism: Relentlessly Local''
#*: if you do print the DUI story and sensationalize and '''overblow''' it
# {{lb|en|transitive|music}} To [[blow]] a [[wind instrument]] (typically a whistle, recorder or flute) hard to produce a higher [[pitch]] than usual.
#* '''1909''', Leander Jan Bekker, ''Stokes' Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians''
#*: The upper octaves of the flute's compass are produced by '''overblowing'''.
# {{lb|en|intransitive|music}} Of a [[wind instrument]], to move from its lower to its higher register.
#: ''The oboe '''overblows''' at the [[octave]]; the clarinet at the twelfth.'' 

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to blow over, pass away}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ути́хнуть|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Mandarin: {{t-check|cmn|超吹|sc=Hani}}
{{checktrans-bottom}}

===Anagrams===
* [[blow over#English|blow over]]
* [[bowl over#English|bowl over]]

[[et:overblow]]
[[hu:overblow]]
[[pl:overblow]]
[[fi:overblow]]
[[vi:overblow]]
[[zh:overblow]]