{{also|Oxymoron|oxymóron}
}

==English==
{{was wotd|2006|July|12}}
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
First attested in the 17th century, noun use of 5th century {{bor|en|la|oxymōrum|pos=adj}}, neut. nom. form of {{m|la|oxymōrus|pos=adj}},<ref name="L+S">{{R:L&S|oxymōrus|2=oxymorus}}</ref> from {{der|en|grc|ὀξύμωρος}}, compound of {{m|grc|ὀξύς||sharp, keen, pointed}}<ref>{{R:LSJ|o)cu/s2|ὀξύς}}</ref> (English {{m|en|oxy-}}, as in {{m|en|oxygen}}) + {{m|grc|μωρός||dull, stupid, foolish}}<ref>{{R:LSJ|mwro/s|μωρός}}</ref> (English {{m|en|moron||stupid person}}). Literally "sharp-dull", "keen-stupid", or "pointed-foolish"<ref name="LSJ">{{R:LSJ|o)cu/mwros|ὀξύμωρος}}</ref> – itself an '''oxymoron''', hence [[autological]]; compare {{m|en|sophomore|lit=wise fool}}, influenced by similar analysis. The compound form {{m|grc|ὀξύμωρον}} is not found in the extant Ancient Greek sources.<ref>[http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50168789 OED]</ref>
{{root|en|ine-pro|*h₂eḱ-}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{IPA|en|/ɒksɪˈmɔːɹɒn/}}
* {{a|US}} {{enPR|äk-sē-môrʹ-än|äk-sĭ-môrʹ-än}}, {{IPA|en|/ˌɑksiˈmɔɹɑn/|/ɑksɪˈmɔɹɑn/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-oxymoron.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{audio|en|en-au-oxymoron.ogg|Audio (AU)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|oxymora}}

{{examples|sense=rhetoric|examples={{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''[[s:Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare)|Romeo and Juliet]]'' (c. 1591–1595)<br>Parting is such sweet sorrow.}}

# {{lb|en|rhetoric}} A [[figure of speech]] in which two words or phrases with opposing meanings are used together intentionally for effect.
#* {{RQ:Langley Rhetoric|35|In '''''Oxymoron''''' jarring phrases join<br>And terms opposed in harmony combine.}}
#* '''1996''', {{w|John Sinclair (sociologist)|John Sinclair}}, "Culture and Trade: Some Theoretical and Practical Considerations", in Emile G. McAnany, Kenton T. Wilkinson (eds.), ''Mass Media and Free Trade: NAFTA and the Cultural Industries'', University of Texas Press
#*: For Theodor Adorno and his colleagues at the Frankfurt School who coined the term, "culture industry" was an '''oxymoron''', intended to set up a critical contrast between the exploitative, repetitive mode of industrial mass production under capitalism and the associations of transformative power and aesthetico-moral transcendence that the concept of culture carried in the 1940s, when it still meant "high" culture.
# {{lb|en|loosely|sometimes|_|proscribed}} A [[contradiction in terms]].

====Usage notes====
* Historically, an {{m|en||oxymoron}} was "a {{l|en|paradox}} with a point",<ref>Jebb, Sir Richard (1900). ''[http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus:text:1999.04.0023:text=comm:commline=74&highlight=o%29cu%2Fmwron Sophocles: The Plays and Fragments, with critical notes, commentary, and translation in English prose. Part III: The Antigone]''. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</ref> or "pointedly foolish: a witty saying, the more pointed from being paradoxical or seemingly absurd" at first glance.<ref name="LSJ" /> Its deliberate purpose was to underscore a point or to draw attention to a concealed point. The common {{l|en|vernacular}} use of {{m|en||oxymoron}} as simply a [[contradiction in terms]] is considered incorrect by some speakers and writers, and is perhaps best avoided in certain contexts.

====Antonyms====
* {{l|en|pleonasm}}, {{l|en|redundancy}}

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|oxymoronic}}
* {{l|en|oxymoronically}}
* {{l|en|oxymoronicity}}
* {{l|en|oxymoronicness}}

====Related terms====
{{rel2|en
|moron
|oxy-
|paradox
|sophomore
|paroxysm
|oxalic}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|figure of speech}}
* Albanian: {{t|sq|oksimoron|m}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|նրբաբանություն}}, {{t+|hy|օքսիմորոն}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|аксю́маран|m}}, {{t|be|аксі́маран|m}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|окси́морон|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|oxímoron|m}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t|cmn|矛盾修飾法|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|矛盾修饰法|tr=máodùn xiūshìfǎ|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|矛盾語|sc=Hani}}, {{t|cmn|矛盾语|tr=máodùnyǔ|sc=Hani}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|oxymóron|m}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|oksimoro}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|oksüümoron}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|oksymoron}}
* French: {{t+|fr|oxymore|m}}
* Georgian: {{t+|ka|ოქსიმორონი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Oxymoron|n}}
* Greek: {{t|el|οξύμωρο σχήμα|n}}
*: Ancient: {{t|el|ὀξύμωρον|n}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|oximoron}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|refhvörf|n-p}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|ossimoro|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|撞着語法|tr=どうちゃくごほう, dōchaku gohō|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|矛盾語法|tr=むじゅんごほう, mujun gohō}}
* Korean: {{t|ko|모순어법}}
* Latin: {{t|la|oxymorum|n}}
* Lithuanian: {{t+|lt|oksimoronas|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|оксиморон|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|oksymoron|m-in}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|oxímoro|m}}, {{t+|pt|oximoro}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|oximoron|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|окси́морон|m}}, {{t+|ru|оксю́морон|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|оксиморон|m}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|oksimoron|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|oxymorón|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|oxímoron|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|oxymoron}}, {{t|sv|självmotsägelse}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|kulanglabis}}
* Thai: {{t|th|ปฏิพจน์}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|oksimoron|n}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|окси́морон|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|contradiction in terms}}

===See also===
* [[:Category:English oxymorons]]
* [[contranym]]

===References===
<references/>

===Further reading===
* {{pedia|Oxymoron}}
* [http://lee.critesclan.com/oxymorons.html Lee’s Complete Oxymoron List], with discussion of classification ([http://web.archive.org/web/20080617020051/http://lee.critesclan.com/oxymorons.html archive])

[[Category:English autological terms]]
[[Category:English oxymorons]]
[[Category:en:Figures of speech]]