{{see|大}}
==Translingual==

===Etymology===
([[象形]]) the dot is ear. (犭: A dog that is up on his hind legs.)

===Han character===
{{Han char|rn=94|rad=犬|as=00|sn=4|four=4303<sub>0</sub>|canj=[[戈]][[大]] (IK)}}

# [[dog]]
# radical number 94

====Synonyms====
*[[狗]]

====References====
{{Han ref|kx=0705.270|dkj=20234|dj=1118.140|hdz=21331.010|uh=72AC|ud=29356|bh=A4FC|bd=42236}}

* '''Alternate form(s)''': [[犭]] 
Although the alternative form clearly shows only three strokes, it is still counted as four strokes when using a Chinese dictionary.

----

==Cantonese==
===Hanzi===
{{yue-hanzi|jyut=|y=[[hyun2]]}}
# {{defn|Cantonese}}
----
== Japanese ==
===Noun===
[[Category:1000_Japanese_basic_words|いぬ]]
{{ja-noun|k|hira=いぬ|rom=inu}}

#[[dog]]
[[Category:ja:Dogs|*]]
[[Category:ja:Mammals|いぬ]]
====Alternative spellings====
*[[イヌ]]
===Kanji===
{{ja-kanji|grade=1|rs=犬00}}
====Readings====
{{ja-readings|on=[[けん]] ([[ken]])|kun=[[いぬ]] ([[inu]])}}

====Compounds====
*[[警察犬]] ([[けいさつけん]], [[keisatsu-ken]]): [[police dog]]
*[[探知犬]] ([[たんちけん]], [[tanchi-ken]]): [[detection dog]]
*[[救助犬]] ([[きゅうじょけん]], [[kyūjo-ken]]): [[rescue dog]]
*[[麻薬犬]] ([[まやくけん]], [[mayaku-ken]]): [[drug dog]], [[dope dog]]
*[[盲導犬]] ([[もうどうけん]], [[mōdō-ken]]): [[seeing-eye dog]] (for visually impaired person)
*[[聴導犬]] ([[ちょうどうけん]], [[chōdō-ken]]): [[hearing dog]]
*[[介助犬]] ([[かいじょけん]], [[kaijo-ken]]): [[mobility dog]], [[mobility assistance dog]]
*[[子犬]] ([[こいぬ]], [[koinu]]) [[young]] [[dog]], [[puppy]]
*[[小犬]] ([[こいぬ]], [[koinu]]) [[little]] [[dog]], [[puppy]]
*[[愛犬]] ([[あいけん]], [[aiken]]) [[lovely]] [[dog]], [[pet]]
*[[秋田犬]] ([[あきたいぬ]], [[Akita-inu]]) [[Akita inu]], [[Japanese]] [[akita]]
*[[土佐犬]] ([[とさいぬ]],  [[Tosa-inu]]) [[Tosa inu]], [[Japanese]] [[mastiff]]
*[[柴犬]] ([[しばいぬ]], [[Thiba-inu]]) [[Shiba inu]], [[Japanese]] [[shiba]]

----

==Korean==
===Hanja===
{{ko-hanja|hangeul=견|eumhun=개 견|rv=gyeon|mr=kyŏn|y=kyen}}
# {{defn|Korean}}


* 견 (gyeon). 
* 개 견 (gae gyeon) (/kE:/ < Middle Korean /kahi/)

* '''Example Words''': 
* [[투견]] [鬪犬] (tugyeon) "fighting dog"
* [[견공]] [犬公] (gyeon-gong) "dog"

----
==Mandarin==
===Hanzi===
{{cmn-hanzi|pin=[[quǎn]] ([[quan3]])|wg=[[ch'üan3|ch'üan<sup>3</sup>]]|y=[[chwan]]}}
# {{defn|Mandarin}}

* '''Example Words''': 
* [[鷹犬]] (ying1 quan3) "dogs that hunt eagle"
* [[警犬]] (jing3 quan3) "police dog"
* [[黃犬音]] (huang2 quan3 yin1) "news"
* [[犬齒]] (quan3chi3) "canine tooth", a.k.a. [[犬牙]] (quan3 ya2) or [[虎牙]] (fu3ya2)

====Usage note====
犬 is the 94th radical in the Chinese dictionary.  Compound characters such as [[狇]] mostly use the alternative form at the left of the character.  Most represent something to do with dogs or other animals. A smaller proportion (e. g. [[狀]]) use the primary form at the right of the character.  A few even show both forms: in [[獄]] which means "prison" or "litigation"; "words" ([[言]])  stand between two dogs to keep them from biting each other.

* '''Style''': [[traditional Chinese]]
** '''[[simplified Chinese | Simplified]] equivalent''': none

[[da:犬]]
[[el:犬]]
[[fr:犬]]
[[ko:犬]]
[[ku:犬]]
[[la:犬]]
[[hu:犬]]
[[nl:犬]]
[[ja:犬]]
[[pl:犬]]
[[ro:犬]]
[[ru:犬]]
[[fi:犬]]
[[sv:犬]]
[[vi:犬]]
[[tpi:犬]]