{{rfc|strangely, all quoted sources have Dutch authors… Is this a [[coïncidence]]?  The first citation is quite useless, without date and author}}
{{also|vacuum}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{term|vacuum}}, with a [[diæresis]] added to specify the pronunciation: {{IPA|/ˈvæ.kjuˌʌm̩̩/}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈvæ.kjuˌʌm̩̩/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|vacuä}}

# {{rare}} {{alternative spelling of|vacuum#English|vacuum|lang=English}}

====Quotations====
* '''''Unknown''''', Author Unknown, ''Open'', p239
*: …utilizing '''vacuüm''' to increase the efficiency of the fumigation process. By utilizing '''vacuüm''', the fumigation time is shortened…
* '''1981''', Hans van Dam, ''Drama: een handboek voor dramatische vorming'', p187
*: ‘Workshop training should also always be related to playing, and not carried on in an academie '''vacuüm'''.’
* '''1996''': “[http://groups.google.co.uk/groups/profile?enc_user=PNsjDAsAAACB8WyOXmMsCJbVmp75_q1n Bart Bollen]”, ''[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/sci.materials.ceramics/topics sci.materials.ceramics (Google group)]: [http://groups.google.co.uk/group/sci.materials.ceramics/browse_thread/thread/1fe5e4d2413e5cd8?q=%22vacu%C3%BCm%22+-vacuum Where to find lab. '''vacuüm''' furnace]'', the 7<sup>th</sup> day of August at 7 o’clock a.m.
*: For one of our projects we are looking for a specialized company who develops and produces high '''vacuüm''' furnaces :<br>
*:: '''Vacuüm'''  : 10-6 mbar or 10-4 Pa<br>
*:: Temp.   : 1100°C<br>
*:: Dim.    : 180 mm x 60 mm x 60 mm (l x w x h)
* '''1996''', T. A. M. Schoenmakers, ''Het Amerikaanse Neoconservatisme, 1968–1988'', p14
*: ‘Franklin Roosevelt was showing that democracy was capable of taking care of its own; the New Deal was filling the '''vacuüm''' of faith which we had inherited from the cynicism and complacency of the twenties, and from the breadlines of the early thirtees.’
* '''2001''': “[http://groups.google.co.uk/groups/profile?enc_user=fV13Iw8AAAD94Yry295hPz8UEAxxDLqo Wlm]”, ''[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.music-lover.audiophile.hardware/topics alt.music-lover.audiophile.hardware (Google group)]: [http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.music-lover.audiophile.hardware/browse_thread/thread/7ad789608efdd3b9?q=%22a+vacu%C3%BCm%22+-vacuum Speaker Dust caps]'', the 7<sup>th</sup> day of April at 12:30pm
*: Try a '''vacuüm'''-cleaner.
* '''2002''', Author Unknown, ''Jaarboek voor Middeleeuwse Geschiedenis 5'', p64
*: Others took advantage of the power '''vacuüm''': the bishop of Utrecht, the embryonic counties of Gelre, Kleef, and Zutphen, and the abbeys of Deutz and Abdinghof…
* '''2003''': “[http://groups.google.co.uk/groups/profile?enc_user=hlfpwRwAAAB4c_y-uXX8DlcV79XKff-6T-4Yz44fnwRvTLkhA-RsYg Sergey van Haas]”, ''[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.drugs.chemistry/topics alt.drugs.chemistry (Google groups)]: [http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.drugs.chemistry/browse_thread/thread/a2ef924daaf41be9?q=%22a+vacu%C3%BCm%22+-vacuum Why this synth doesnt work]'', the 28<sup>th</sup> day of January at 3:53pm
*: 13,4 g dry LSA in 800 ml of DMF in a '''vacuüm''' flask @ 20°C, you add a solution of N,N-Carbonyldiimidazole in 250 ml of DMF. Stir for one half hour @ 20°C in the dark. 
*: Add after that a solution of 4 g DEA in 50 ml of DMF. 
*: Let stand for 2 hours @ 20°C and then 20 hours @ 5°C. 
*: Evaporate in '''vacuüm''' to get the LSD. 
*: Disolve in 2,5 L of 2% tartaric acid. Extract with Ether and discard Ether. Filter and basify with NH4OH and extract with a 9:1 ether:ethanol solution. Dry and evaporate in '''vacuüm''' to get LSD in 81% yield.

[[Category:English words spelled with diacritics|vacuum]]

----

==Dutch==

{{rfe|lang=Dutch}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈva.ky.ym/|lang=nl}}
* {{hyphenation|va|cu|um}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun2|n|stem=vacu|üms|pl2=a|ümpje}}

# [[vacuum]]
# {{figuratively}} [[emptiness]], [[meaninglessness]]
#* '''2007''', [[w:Dimitri Verhulst|Dimitri Verhulst]], ''De helaasheid der dingen'', Uitgeverij Contact, Amsterdam/Antwerpen, ISBN 978 90 254 2773 3, p. 192
#*: Er werden handen geschud en '''vacuüm''' getrokken zinnen gewisseld, en de vrienden van het volk verlieten het bejaardentehuis, op naar hun volgende opdracht, de cameraregistratie van een volksdans misschien.
#*:: Hands were shaken and pleasantries with '''no meaning''' were exchanged, and the people’s friends left the rest home, on to their next mission, maybe the photographic documentation of a folk dance.

====Derived terms====
* [[vacuümbuis]]
* [[vacuümglas]]
* [[vacuümkamer]]
* [[vacuümlamp]]
* [[vacuümmeter]]
* [[vacuümpan]]
* [[vacuümpomp]]
* [[vacuümverpakking]]
* [[vacuümverpakt]] 

[[Category:Dutch words spelled with diacritics]]

[[hu:vacuüm]]
[[nl:vacuüm]]