==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la}} {{term|valva|lang=la}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

# A device that controls the flow of a gas or fluid through a pipe.
# A device that admits fuel and air into the cylinder of an internal combustion engine, or one that allows combustion gases to exit.
# {{anatomy}} One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves.
# {{British}} A [[vacuum tube]].
# {{botany}} One of the pieces into which certain fruits naturally separate when they dehisce.
# {{botany}} A small portion of certain anthers, which opens like a trapdoor to allow the pollen to escape, as in the barberry.
# {{biology}} One of the pieces or divisions of bivalve or multivalve shells.
# {{biology}} One of the two similar portions of the shell of a diatom.

====Derived terms====
* [[exhaust valve]]
* [[heart valve]]
* [[vein valve]]
* [[ileocecal valve]]
* [[intake valve]]
* [[toggle valve]]
* [[valved]]
* [[valveless]]
* [[valve oil]]
* [[valvoplasty]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|device that controls flow of gas or fluid}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|ventil|m}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|ventiil}}, {{t|et|klapp}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|venttiili}}
* French: {{t+|fr|clapet|m}}, {{t+|fr|soupape|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ventil|n}}
* [[Ido]]: [[valvo]]
* Italian: {{t+|it|valvola|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Latvian: [[ventilis]] {{m}}, [[krāns]] {{m}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|ventil|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zawór|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ventil|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|вентиль|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|клапан|m|sc=Cyrl}}, {{t+|ru|задвижка|m|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|válvula|f}}, {{t+|es|llave|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|device in an internal combustion engine}}
* Estonian: {{t|et|klapp}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|venttiili}}
* German: {{t+|de|Ventil|n}}
* Latvian: [[vārsts]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|ventil|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|zawór|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|клапан|m|sc=Cyrl}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|in anatomy}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|chlopeň|f}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|läppä}}
* German: {{t+|de|Klappe|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t-|no|klaff|m}}
* Polish: [[zastawka]] {{f}}
* Romanian: {{t|ro|valvă|f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-see|vacuum tube}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|valv|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To control (flow) by means of a valve.

<!--These translations are to be moved into the pages for the related terms listed above.
'''Intake valve'''
* Spanish: válvula de admisión
'''Toggle valve'''
* Spanish: válvula purgadora
-->

----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
{{infl|fi|noun}}

# The state of being [[awake]].

====Declension====
{{fi-decl-hame|valv}}

====Antonyms====
* [[uni]]

====Derived terms====
* [[olla valveilla]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|la|fr}} {{term|valva|lang=la}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|Fr-valve.ogg|audio}}
* {{IPA|/valv/|lang=fr}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun|f}}

# [[#Noun|valve]]

====Derived terms====
* [[valve cardiaque]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''valve''' {{f}}

# {{plural of|[[valva]]|lang=Italian}}

[[de:valve]]
[[fa:valve]]
[[fr:valve]]
[[io:valve]]
[[it:valve]]
[[kn:valve]]
[[hu:valve]]
[[ml:valve]]
[[pl:valve]]
[[ru:valve]]
[[simple:valve]]
[[fi:valve]]
[[ta:valve]]
[[te:valve]]
[[vi:valve]]
[[zh:valve]]