{{also|VAT|vát|vât|våt|vật}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|enm|en}} {{m|enm|vat}}, a variant of {{m|enm|fat||vat, vessel, cask}}, from {{etyl|ang|en}} {{m|ang|fæt||vat, vessel, jar, cup; casket; division
}}, from {{etyl|gem-pro|en}} {{m|gem-pro|*fatą||vessel}}, from {{etyl|ine-pro|en}} {{m|ine-pro|*pod-||vessel}}. Cognate with {{cog|sco|fat}}, {{m|sco|vat}}, {{m|sco|vautt||vat, cask, tub}}, West Frisian {{m|fy|fet}}, Dutch {{m|nl|vat||barrel, cask, vessel, vat}}, German {{m|de|Fass||barrel, keg, drum, cask, vat}}, Danish {{m|da|fad||saucer, dish}}, Swedish {{m|sv|fat||dish, barrel, cask, vat}}, Icelandic {{m|is|fat||dish, saucer}}. See {{l|en|fat}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/væt/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-vat.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|æt|lang=en}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A large [[tub]], such as is used for making [[wine]] or for [[tanning]].
# A square, hollow place on the back of a calcining furnace, where tin ore is laid to dry.
# {{lb|en|Roman Catholic}} A vessel for holding holy water.
# {{lb|en|dated}} A [[liquid measure]] and [[dry measure]]; especially, a liquid measure in [[Belgium]] and [[Holland]], corresponding to the [[hectolitre]] of the metric system, which contains 22.01 imperial gallons, or 26.4 standard gallons in the United States. (The old Dutch grain vat averaged 0.762 Winchester bushel. The old London coal vat contained 9 bushels. The solid-measurement vat of Amsterdam contains 40 cubic feet; the wine vat, 241.57 imperial gallons, and the vat for olive oil, 225.45 imperial gallons.)

====Translations====
{{trans-top|a large tub, such as is used for making wine or for tanning}}
* Dalmatian: {{t|dlm|tinir|m}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|sammio}}, {{t+|fi|saavi}}
* French: {{t+|fr|cuve|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Bottich|m}}, {{t+|de|Trog|m}}, {{t+|de|Wanne|f}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|ΦΠΑ}}
* Icelandic: {{t+|is|ker|n}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|dabhach|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|tino|m}}, {{t+|it|tinozza|f}}, {{t|it|tinozza da concia}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|каца|f|tr=káca}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|tāpu}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Old Saxon: {{t|osx|fat}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|خم|tr=xom|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t|fa|خمبه|tr=xombe|sc=fa-Arab}}, {{t+|fa|خمره|tr=xomre|sc=fa-Arab}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|kadź|f}}, {{t+|pl|stągiew|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|tonel|m}}, {{t+|pt|tina|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|чан|m}}, {{t+|ru|бак|m}}, {{t+|ru|ка́дка|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|amar|m}}, {{t|gd|coire|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian: {{t+|sh|kaca}}, {{t+|sh|maštel}}, {{t+|sh|čabar}}, {{t+|sh|bačva}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|bočka|f}}, {{t|sk|dieža|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|cuba|f}}, {{t+|es|tina|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|kärl|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|vatt}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To put into a vat.
# {{lb|en|transitive}} To [[blend]] (wines or spirits) in a [[vat]]; figuratively, to mix or blend elements as if with wines or spirits.
#* '''1931''', William Faulkner, ''Sanctuary'', Library of America, 1985, p.114:
#*: He was thinking of the grape arbor in Kingston, of summer twilight and the murmur of voices darkening into silence as he approached, who meant them, her, no harm; who meant her less than harm, good God; darkening into the pale whisper of her white dress, of the delicate and urgent mammalian whisper of that curious small flesh which he had not begot and in which appeared to be '''vatted''' delicately some seething sympathy with the blossoming grape.

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|ATV|TVA|VTA|tav|vta}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{rhymes|ɑt|lang=nl}}
* {{audio|Nl-vat.ogg|audio|lang=nl}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{inh|nl|dum|vat}}, from {{inh|nl|odt|*fat}}, from {{inh|nl|gem-pro|*fatą}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|n|-:en|vatje|dim2=vaatje}}

# [[barrel]], [[tank]]
# {{lb|nl|biology}} [[vessel]]

=====Synonyms=====
* [[ton]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{der-top}}
* [[bloedvat]]
* [[lymfevat]]
* [[vaataandoening]]
{{der-mid}}
* [[wijnvat]]
* [[zeefvat]]
{{der-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From {{inh|nl|dum|vat}}. Related to {{m|nl|vatten}}.

====Noun====
{{nl-noun|m|-|-}}

# [[grip]], both literal and figurative
#: ''geen vat krijgen op ...'' — not being able to get a grip on ...

=====Derived terms=====
* [[handvat]]
* [[vatten]]

====Verb====
{{nl-verb-form}}

# {{nl-verb form of|p=123|n=sg|t=pres|m=ind|vatten}}
# {{nl-verb form of|m=imp|vatten}}

----

==Volapük==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|de|vo}} {{m|de|Wasser}}, {{etyl|en|vo}} {{m|en|water}}{{,}} and {{etyl|nl|vo}} {{m|nl|water}}.

===Noun===
{{vo-noun}}

# [[water]]

====Declension====
{{vo-decl-noun}}