{{also|Vegan}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
1944, {{clipping|lang=en|vegetarian|nocap=1}}.<ref>{{cite-journal|author={{w|Donald Watson}} |title=The Early History of the Vegan Movement |journal=The Vegan |url=http://issuu.com/vegan_society/docs/the-vegan-autumn-1965---21st-anniversary-issue |issue=Autumn |year=1965 |pages=5–7}}</ref> Coined by {{w|Donald Watson}} of the {{w|Vegan Society}} and first appeared in ''The Vegan News'' (November 1944) volume 1, [http://issuu.com/vegan_society/docs/the_vegan_news_1944 issue 1], page 2, section "Wanted – A Name":
{{quote|We should all consider carefully what our Group, and our magazine, and ourselves, shall be called. 'Non-dairy' has become established as a generally understood colloquialism, but like 'non-lacto' it is too negative. Moreover it does not imply that we are opposed to the use of eggs as food. We need a name that suggests what we do eat, and if possible one that conveys the idea that even with all animal foods taboo, Nature still offers us a bewildering assortment from which to choose. 'Vegetarian' and 'Fruitarian' are already associated with societies that allow the 'fruits'(!) of cows and fowls, therefore it seems we must make a new and appropriate word. As this first issue of our periodical had to be named, I have used the title "The Vegan News". Should we adopt this, our diet will soon become known as a VEGAN diet, and we should aspire to the rank of VEGANS. Members' suggestions will be welcomed. The virtue of having a short title is best known to those of us who, as secretaries of vegetarian societies have to type or write the word vegetarian thousands of times a year!}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈviːɡən/|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|iːɡən|lang=en}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Relating to vegans or veganism.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|relating to vegans or veganism}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|vegà}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|veganský}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veganistisch}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|vegana}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vegaaninen}}
* French: {{t+|fr|végan|m}}, {{t+|fr|végane|m|f}}, {{t+|fr|végétalien}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|vegano}}
* German: {{t+|de|vegan}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|vega}}, {{t|hu|vegán}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|veigeánach}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vegano}}
* Japanese: {{t|ja|完全菜食主義者|tr=kanzen saishokushugisha|sc=Jpan}}, {{t|ja|ビーガン|tr=bīgan|sc=Jpan}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|вегански|tr=véganski}}
* Norwegian: {{t-needed|no}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|wegański|m}}, {{t|pl|wegańska|f}}, {{t|pl|wegańskie}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vegano|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ве́ганский}}, {{t+|ru|вега́нский}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vegano}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|feganaidd}}, {{t|cy|figanaidd}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A person who does not consume, use or eat any animal products; a supporter of [[veganism]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|supporter of veganism}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|vegà}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|vegan|m}}, {{t|cs|veganka|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|veganer}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|veganist|m}}, {{t+|nl|veganiste|f}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|vegano}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|vegaani}}
* French: {{t+|fr|végan|m}}, {{t+|fr|végétalien|m}}, {{t+|fr|végétalienne|f}}, {{t+|fr|végane|m|f}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|vegano|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Veganer|m}}, {{t+|de|Veganerin|f}}
* Greek: {{t|el|ακραιφνής χορτοφάγος|m|f}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|veigeán|m}}, {{t|ga|fíor-veigeatóir|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vegano|m}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|веган|m|tr=végan}}, {{t|mk|веганка|f|tr=véganka}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|veganer}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|weganin|m}}, {{t+|pl|weganka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vegano|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|ве́ган|m}}, {{t+|ru|вега́н|m}}, {{t|ru|ве́ганка|f}}, {{t|ru|вега́нка|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vegano|m}}, {{t|es|vegana|f}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|vegan}}
* Welsh: {{t|cy|fegan}}, {{t|cy|figan}}, {{t|cy|cigwrthodwr caeth|m}}, {{t|cy|llysfwytäwr caeth|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[veganic]]
* [[veganism]]
* [[veganist]]
* [[veganite]]

===See also===
* [[vegetarian]]
* [[vegetarianism]]

===References===
<references />

[[Category:en:Diets]]
[[Category:en:Vegetarianism]]

----

==Czech==

===Noun===
{{cs-noun|g=m}}

# [[vegan]] {{gloss|veganism supporter}}

====Declension====
{{cs-decl-noun-auto|ma|veg|a|n}}

====Derived terms====
* [[veganka]] {{qualifier|feminine form}}

====Related terms====
* [[veganský]]
* [[veganství]] {{g|n}}

====See also====
* [[vegetarián]] {{g|m}}
* [[vegetariánství]] {{g|n}}

----

==German==

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|en|de}} {{m|en|vegan}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/veˈɡaːn/|lang=de}}
* {{rhymes|aːn|lang=de}}

===Adjective===
{{de-adjective|veganer|vegansten}}

# {{l|en|vegan}}

====Declension====
{{de-decl-adj|vegan|veganer|veganst}}

===External links===
* {{R:Duden}}

[[Category:de:Vegetarianism]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun|m}}

# A {{l|en|vegan}}.

====Synonyms====
* {{l|es|vegano}}

[[Category:es:Vegetarianism]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun|c}}

# {{l|en|vegan}}, person who does not use animal products.

====Declension====
{{sv-infl-noun-c-r|2=vegane}}

====See also====
* [[vegetarian]]

[[ca:vegan]]
[[cs:vegan]]
[[de:vegan]]
[[et:vegan]]
[[fr:vegan]]
[[ko:vegan]]
[[it:vegan]]
[[ku:vegan]]
[[ml:vegan]]
[[nl:vegan]]
[[pl:vegan]]
[[pt:vegan]]
[[fi:vegan]]
[[sv:vegan]]
[[ta:vegan]]
[[tr:vegan]]
[[vi:vegan]]
[[zh:vegan]]