==English==

===Etymology===
From {{inh|en|enm|venum}}, {{m|enm|venym}}, from {{der|en|xno|venum}}, {{m|fro|venim}}, {{m|fro|venime}}, from {{der|en|fro|venim}}, {{m|fro|venin}}, from {{der|en|VL.|*venīmen}}, from {{der|en|la|venēnum}}, from {{der|en|itc-pro|*weneznom|t=lust, desire}}, from {{der|en|ine-pro|*wenh₁-||to strive, wish, love}}; see also {{cog|sa|वनति|t=gain, wish, erotic lust}} and {{cog|la|Venus}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|en|/ˈvɛnəm/}}
* {{audio|en|en-us-venom.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun|~}}

# A [[poison]] carried by an [[animal]], usually injected into an enemy or prey by biting or stinging.
#* {{circa|1610}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Winter's Tale|The Winter’s Tale}}'', Act II, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=winterstale&Act=2&Scene=1&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: {{...}} There may be in the cup
#*: A spider steep’d, and one may drink, depart,
#*: And yet partake no '''venom''', for his knowledge
#*: Is not infected:
#* '''1634''', {{w|John Milton}}, ''{{w|Arcades (Milton)|Arcades}}'' in ''Poems of Mr. John Milton, both English and Latin'', London: Humphrey Moseley, Song, p. 54,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A89149.0001.001]</sup>
#*: And from the Boughs brush off the evil dew,
#*: And heal the harms of thwarting thunder blew,
#*: Or what the cross dire-looking Planet smites,
#*: Or hurtfull Worm with canker’d '''venom''' bites.
#* '''1818''', {{w|Mary Shelley}}, ''{{w|Frankenstein}}'', Chapter 20,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/42324/42324-h/42324-h.htm]</sup>
#*: I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its '''venom'''.
#* '''1968''', {{w|Truman Capote}}, interview published in ''{{w|Mademoiselle (magazine)|Mademoiselle}}'', August 1968,<sup>[https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Truman_Capote]</sup>
#*: The serious artist {{...}} [is] obsessed by his material; it’s like a '''venom''' working in his blood and the art is the antidote.
# {{lb|en|figuratively}} [[feeling|Feeling]] or [[speech]] marked by [[spite]] or [[malice]]; [[vitriol]].
#* {{circa|1598}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Henry V (play)|Henry V}}'', Act V, Scene 2,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=henry5&Act=5&Scene=2&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: The '''venom''' of such looks, we fairly hope,
#*: Have lost their quality, and that this day
#*: Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
#* '''1790''', {{w|Richard Cumberland (dramatist)|Richard Cumberland}}, ''The Observer'', London: C. Dilly, Volume 5, No. 130, p. 48,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004877346.0001.005]</sup>
#*: {{...}} as I was feasting my jaundiced eye one morning with a certain newspaper, which I was in the habit of employing as the vehicle of my '''venom''', I was startled at discovering myself conspicuously pointed out in an angry column as a cowardly defamer {{...}}
#* '''1819''', {{w|Walter Scott}}, ''{{w|The Bride of Lammermoor}}'', Chapter 33,<sup>[http://www.gutenberg.org/files/471/471-h/471-h.htm]</sup>
#*: “My daughter {{...}} has no occasion to dispute the identity of your person; the '''venom''' of your present language is sufficient to remind her that she speaks with the mortal enemy of her father.”
#* '''1938''', {{w|Lawrence Durrell}}, ''{{w|The Black Book (Durrell novel)|The Black Book}}'', New York: Open Road, 2012, Book Three,
#*: History is a study which has none of the '''venom''' of reality in it.
#* {{quote-book|1=en|year=1966|author=James Workman|title=The Mad Emperor|publisher=Scripts|location=Melbourne, Sydney|page=62|passage=The attack was so unwarranted and delivered with such '''venom''' that his unpreparedness for it left him speechless.}}
#* '''2007''', {{w|Roger Ebert}}, ''Your Movie Sucks'', Kansas City: Andrews McMeel, Introduction,<sup>[https://books.google.ca/books?id=eipZqzyaF0UC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</sup>
#*: Some of these reviews were written in joyous zeal. Others with glee. Some in sorrow, some in anger, and a precious few with '''venom''', of which I have a closely guarded supply.

====Synonyms====
* {{sense|poison carried by an animal}} {{l|en|atter}} (''archaic, dialectal'')

====Derived terms====
{{der3|en
|antivenom
|antivenomics
|antivenomous
|dilute Russell's viper venom time
|envenom
|envenomate
|envenomation
|envenomization
|nonvenomous
|outvenom
|venomic
|venomics
|venomization
|venomless
|venomlike
|venomosalivary
|venomosity
|venomous
|venomously
|venomousness
|venomsome
}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|poison carried by animal}}
* Albanian: {{t+|sq|helm}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|թույն}}
* Aromanian: {{t+|rup|virin}}, {{t|rup|fãrmac}}
* Asturian: {{t|ast|venenu|m}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|zəhər}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|ағыу}}
* Basque: {{t-needed|eu}}
* Belarusian: {{t|be|атру́та|f}}, {{t|be|яд|m}}
* Bengali: {{t|bn|জহর|tr=zôhôr}}, {{t|bn|বিষ}}
* Bulgarian: {{t+|bg|яд|m}}
* Burmese: {{t+|my|အဆိပ်}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|verí|m}}
* Chamicuro: {{t|ccc|solima}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|毒液|tr=dúyè}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|jed|m}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|gift|m}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|gif|n}}, {{t+|nl|venijn|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t+|eo|veneno}}
* Estonian: {{t+|et|mürk}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|myrkky}}
* French: {{t+|fr|venin|m}}
* Friulian: {{t|fur|velen|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|veleno|m}}, {{t|gl|pezoña|f}}, {{t|gl|pezoia|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|შხამი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gift|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|δηλητήριο|n}}
* Hebrew: {{t+|he|אֶרֶס|m|tr=éres}}
* Hindi: {{t|hi|ज़हर|m}}, {{t+|hi|विष|m}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|méreg}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|veneno}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|bisa}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|veneno}}
* Irish: {{t+|ga|nimh|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|veleno|m}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|毒|tr=どく, doku}}
* Kazakh: {{t+|kk|у}}, {{t|kk|заһар}}
* Khmer: {{t-needed|km}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|독(毒)}}, {{t+|ko|독액(毒液)}}
* Kurdish:
*: Northern Kurdish: {{t+|kmr|jehr|f}}
* Kyrgyz: {{t+|ky|уу}}
* Latin: {{t|la|virus venenum}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|јад|m}}
* Malay: {{t+|ms|bisa}}
* Malayalam: {{t+|ml|വിഷം}} {{qualifier|poison}}
* Manx: {{t|gv|nieu}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hūare-ngau-kino}}, {{t|mi|paitini}}
* Nepali: {{t|ne|जहर}}, {{t|ne|विष}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|gift|m}}
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|gift|m}}
* Occitan: {{t+|oc|veren|m}}
* Old East Slavic: {{t|orv|ядъ|m}}
* Old English: {{t|ang|ātor|n}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|زهر|tr=zahr}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|jad|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|peçonha|f}}, {{t+|pt|veneno|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|venin|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|яд}}
* Sardinian: {{t|sc|belenu|m}}, {{t|sc|benenu|m}}, {{t|sc|velenu|m}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|puinnsean|m}}, {{t|gd|nimh|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|о̀тров|m}}, {{t|sh|зе̏хер|m}} {{qualifier|archaic|poetic}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|òtrov|m}}, {{t+|sh|zȅher|m}} {{qualifier|archaic|poetic}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|jed|m}}
* Slovene: {{t+|sl|strup|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|veneno|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|gift|c}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|kamandag}}
* Tajik: {{t|tg|заҳр}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|విషము}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|พิษ}}
* Tibetan: {{t|bo|སྦྲུལ་སོའི་དུག་ཆུ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|zehir}}
* Turkmen: {{t+|tk|zäher}}
* Ukrainian: {{t|uk|отру́та|f}}, {{t|uk|яд|m}}
* Urdu: {{t|ur|زہر|m|tr=zahar}}
* Uyghur: {{t|ug|زەھەر}}
* Uzbek: {{t+|uz|zahar}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|nọc độc}}, {{t+|vi|độc ác}}
* Volapük: {{t+|vo|venen}}, {{t|vo|venod}}, {{t|vo|venom}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|gwenwyn|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(''figurative'') malice}}
* Catalan: {{t|ca|malvolença|f}}
* French: {{t+|fr|venin|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|veleno|m}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ბოროტება}}, {{t|ka|ღვარძლი}}, {{t|ka|სიბოროტე}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|aicis|f}}
* Kazakh: {{t|kk|заһар}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|venin|n}}, {{t+|ro|fiere}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|зло́ба|f}}
* Scottish Gaelic: {{t|gd|nimh|m}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|зло̀ба|f}}
*: Roman: {{t+|sh|zlòba|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|malicia|f}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|zehir}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{checktrans-top}}
* Ukrainian: {{t-check|uk|отрута|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} To infect with venom; to [[envenom]]; to [[poison]].
#* '''1566''', {{w|Thomas Blundeville}} (translator and editor), ''The Fower Chiefyst Offices Belongyng to Horsemanshippe'', London, Chapter 36,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A16229.0001.001]</sup>
#*: {{...}} washe all the filth away with warme water, and annoynte the place with Hony and Fytch flower myngled together. But beware you touche none of the kirnelles with your bare finger, for feare of '''venoming''' the place, which is very apt for a Fistula to breede in.
#* {{circa|1601}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Troilus and Cressida}}'', Act V, Scene 3,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=troilus&Act=5&Scene=3&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: Let’s leave the hermit pity with our mothers,
#*: And when we have our armours buckled on,
#*: The '''venom’d''' vengeance ride upon our swords,
#*: Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth.
#* '''1669''', {{w|John Bunyan}}, ''The Holy Citie, or, The New-Jerusalem'', London: Francis Smith, Commentary, Chapter 21, Verse 25, pp. 229-230,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/A30152.0001.001]</sup>
#*: The Dragon is a venemous beast, and poisoneth all where he lieth; he beats the Earth bare, and '''venoms''' it, that it will bear no grass {{...}}
#* '''1717''', William Stonestreet (translator), “The Story of Ants chang’d to Men” in {{w|Samuel Garth}} (editor), ''{{w|Ovid}}’s {{w|Metamorphoses}} in Fifteen Books. Translated by the most eminent hands'', London: Jacob Tonson, Book 7, p. 239,<sup>[http://name.umdl.umich.edu/004871123.0001.000]</sup>
#*: Our Fountains too a dire Infection yield,
#*: For Crowds of Vipers creep along the Field,
#*: And with polluted Gore, and baneful Steams,
#*: Taint all the Lakes, and '''venom''' all the Streams.

====Derived terms====
* {{l|en|venomer}}

===Adjective===

{{en-adj|-}}

# {{lb|en|obsolete}} [[poisonous|Poisonous]], poisoned; (''figuratively'') [[pernicious]].
#* '''1594''', {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|The Rape of Lucrece}}'',<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/poems/poem_view.php?WorkID=rapelucrece]</sup>
#*: Why should the worm intrude the maiden bud?
#*: Or hateful cuckoos hatch in sparrows’ nests?
#*: Or toads infect fair founts with '''venom''' mud?
#* {{circa|1595}} {{w|William Shakespeare}}, ''{{w|Richard II (play)|Richard II}}'', Act II, Scene 1,<sup>[http://www.opensourceshakespeare.org/views/plays/play_view.php?WorkID=richard2&Act=2&Scene=1&Scope=scene]</sup>
#*: {{...}} it is stopp’d with other flattering sounds,
#*: As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
#*: Lascivious metres, to whose '''venom''' sound
#*: The open ear of youth doth always listen;

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|a=emnov|Venmo}}

----

==Middle English==

===Noun===
{{head|enm|noun}}

# {{alternative form of|enm|venym}}

----

==Volapük==

===Noun===
{{head|vo|noun}}

# [[poison]], venom

===See also===
* {{l|vo|venen}}
* {{l|vo|venod}}