==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
*/vεr/, /<tt>vEr</tt>/

===Adjective===
'''ver''' ([[verre]])
# [[far]]

====Derived terms====
* [[verblijven]]
* [[verkennen]]
* [[verplegen]]
* [[verwachten]]

----

==French==
===Etymology===
Old French [[verm]], from Latin [[vermis]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/vɛːʁ/}}
*:'''Homophones''': [[vair]], [[vaire]], [[verre]], [[verres]], [[vers]], [[vert]], [[verts]]
*:[[Rhymes:French:-ɛʀ|Rhymes: -ɛʀ]]

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg | m}}

# [[worm]]

===Related terms===
{{top2}}
*[[ver à soie]]
*[[ver d'eau]]
*[[ver de farine]]
*[[ver fil de fer]]
*[[ver du fromage]]
{{mid2}}
*[[ver de Médine]]
*[[ver des parquets et des meubles]]
*[[ver de terre]]
*[[ver internet]] 
*[[ver informatique]]
*[[ver solitaire]]
{{bottom}}

----
==Hungarian==
===Verb===
'''ver'''
# [[beat]]

----
==Icelandic==
===Etymology 1===
From Old Norse [[verr]], cognate with English [[were]] (< Old English [[wer]], cf. [[werewolf]]).

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{m}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[verar]])

# (''poetic, literary'') [[husband]]
# (''poetic, literary'') [[man]]

====Synonyms====
'''husband'''
*[[bóndi]]
*[[eiginmaður]]
*[[ektamaður]]
*[[maður]]

'''man'''
*[[karl]]
*[[karlmaður]]
*[[maður]]

===Etymology 2===
A 19th century alteration of earlier [[vör]] ({{m}}), from Old Norse [[vǫrr]].

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{m}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[verir]]) or {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

# a [[line]] in the [[water]] made by the movement of an [[oar]] or a [[boat]]

====Synonyms====
*[[árarfar]] (of an oar)
*[[kjölrák]] (of a boat)
*[[var]]
*[[vör]]

===Etymology 3===
Origin uncertain, but probably related to [[vari]] ('liquid') and to Old English [[wær]] ('sea').

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

# (''poetic'') [[sea]], [[ocean]]

===Etymology 4===
Related to Norwegian [[vær]] ('fishing harbor, fishing village'). Probably from Proto-Germanic *warja-, other cognates including Old English [[wer]] (>Modern English [[weir]]), Old Saxon [[werr]], Middle Low German [[were]]/[[wer]], Middle High German [[wer]] (>Modern Standard German [[Wehr]]). Also related to [[vör]] ({{f}}, 'landing space for a boat') and to [[verja]] ('protect'). Root meaning probably a guarded or fenced off place.

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

# [[fishing]] center

===Etymology 5===

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

#

===Etymology 6===

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

====Derived terms====
*[[Eyvindarver]]
*[[Húnaver]]

===Etymology 7===
Related to Faroese [[ver]], [[vør]], Danish [[vår]], Swedish [[var]], all meaning the same. Also Norwegian [[ver]], [[vær]], meaning the same, but also 'bag, jar, place to store things'. From Proto-Germanic *waza-

===Noun===
'''ver''' {{n}} (gen. [[vers]], pl. [[ver]])

# a [[cover]] made of [[cloth]]

====Derived terms====
*[[koddaver]]
*[[reiðver]]
*[[sængurver]]

===Etymology 8===
See [[verr]].

===Adverb===
'''ver'''

# nonstandard comparative of [[illa]]
#*original, standard form: [[verr]]

===Etymology 9===
See [[vera]].

===Verb form===
'''ver'''

# singular imperative of [[vera]]

===Etymology 9===
See [[verja]].

===Verb form===
'''ver'''

# third person singular indicative of [[verja]]
# singular imperative of [[verja]]

===References===
*Ásgeir Blöndal Magnússon. ''Íslensk orðsifjabók'', 1st edition, 2nd printing (1989). Reykjavík, Orðabók Háskólans.
*Árni Böðvarsson (editor). ''Íslensk orðabók'', 2nd edition, 12th printing (2000). Reykjavík, Mál og Menning. ISBN 9979-3-0445-6

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]
[[Category:Icelandic adverb forms]]
[[Category:Icelandic verb forms]]

----

==Interlingua==
===Adjective===
'''ver'''

# [[true]]

----
==Portuguese==
===Verb===
'''ver'''

# to [[see]]

===Conjugation===
<center>
{| style="background:#F0F0F0"

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | infinitive
| colspan="5" | ver

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | gerund
| colspan="5" | vendo

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | past participle
| colspan="5" | [[visto]]

|-
! colspan="2" rowspan="2" style="background:#C0C0C0" | person
! colspan="3" style="background:#C0C0C0" | singular
! colspan="3" style="background:#C0C0C0" | plural

|-
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | first
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | second
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | third
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | first
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | second
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | third

|-
! colspan="2" rowspan="2" style="height:3em;background:#e2e4c0" | personal infinitive
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | eu
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | tu
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | ele
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | nós
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | vós
! style="background:#e2e4c0" | eles

|-
| ver
| veres
| ver
| vermos
| verdes
| verem

|-
! rowspan="6" style="background:#c0cfe4" | indicative

! style="background:#c0cfe4" | 
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | eu
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | tu
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | ele
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | nós
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | vós
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | eles

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | present
| vejo
| vês
| vê
| vemos
| vedes
| vêem

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | imperfect
| via
| vias
| via
| víamos
| víeis
| víam

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | preterite
| vi
| viste
| viu
| vimos
| vistes
| viram

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | future
| verei
| verás
| verá
| veremos
| vereis
| verão

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | conditional
| veria
| verias
| veria
| veríamos
| veríeis
| veriam

|-
! rowspan="4" style="background:#c0e4c0" | subjunctive
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | 
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | eu
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | tu
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | ele
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | nós
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | vós
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | eles

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" | present
| veja
| vejas
| veja
| vejamos
| vejais
| vejam

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" rowspan="1" | imperfect
| visse
| visses
| visse
| víssemos
| visseis
| vissem

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" rowspan="1" | future
| vir
| vires
| vir
| virmos
| virdes
| virem

|-
! colspan="2" rowspan="2" style="height:3em;background:#e4d4c0" | imperative
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | -
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | tu
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | ele
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | nós
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | vós
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | eles

|-
|
| vê
| veja
| vejamos
| vede
| vejam

|}
</center>


----

==Spanish==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[videre|vidēre]]''

===Verb===
'''ver'''

# to [[see]]

===Related terms===
*[[véase]]
*[[véanse]]
*[[vista]]
*[[visión]]
*[[visible]]
*[[visual]]
*[[proveer]]
*[[visitar]]

===Conjugation===
<center>
{| style="background:#F0F0F0"

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | infinitive
| colspan="5" | ver

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | gerund
| colspan="5" | viendo

|-
! colspan="3" style="background:#e2e4c0" | past participle
| colspan="5" | [[visto]]

|-
! colspan="2" rowspan="2" style="background:#C0C0C0" | person
! colspan="3" style="background:#C0C0C0" | singular
! colspan="3" style="background:#C0C0C0" | plural

|-
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | first
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | second
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | third
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | first
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | second
! style="background:#C0C0C0;width:12.5%" | third

|-
! rowspan="6" style="background:#c0cfe4" | indicative

! style="background:#c0cfe4" colspan="1" | 
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | yo
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | tú
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | usted
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | nosotros
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | vosotros
! style="background:#c0cfe4" | ustedes

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | present
| veo
| ves
| ve
| vemos
| veis
| ven

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | imperfect
| veía
| veías
| veía
| veíamos
| veíais
| veían

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | preterite
| vi
| viste
| vio
| vimos
| visteis
| vieron

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | future
| veré
| verás
| verá
| veremos
| veréis
| verán

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0cfe4" | conditional
| vería
| verías
| vería
| veríamos
| veríais
| verían

|-
! rowspan="5" style="background:#c0e4c0" | subjunctive
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | 
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | yo
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | tú
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | usted
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | nosotros
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | vosotros
! style="background:#c0e4c0" | ustedes

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" | present
| vea
| veas
| vea
| veamos
| veáis
| vean

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" rowspan="1" | imperfect<br>(ra)
| viera
| vieras
| viera
| viéramos
| vierais
| vieran

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" rowspan="1" | imperfect<br>(se)
| viese
| vieses
| viese
| viésemos
| vieseis
| viesen

|-
! style="height:3em;background:#c0e4c0" rowspan="1" | future
| viere
| vieres
| viere
| viéremos
| viereis
| vieren

|-
! colspan="2" rowspan="2" style="height:3em;background:#e4d4c0" | imperative
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | -
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | tú
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | usted
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | nosotros
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | vosotros
! style="background:#e4d4c0" | ustedes

|-
|
| ve
| vea
| veamos
| ved
| vean

|}
</center>


----

==Turkish==
===Verb form===
'''ver'''

# [[give]] ''(imperative)''


----

==[[Volapük]]==
===Noun===
'''ver'''
# [[truth]]

===See also===
<!-- or are they related terms? -->
*[[velat]] or [[verat]]

[[Category:Dutch adjectives]]
[[Category:French nouns]]
[[Category:Hungarian verbs]]
[[Category:Portuguese verbs]]
[[Category:Portuguese irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Spanish verbs]]
[[Category:Turkish verb forms]]

[[de:ver]]
[[et:ver]]
[[el:ver]]
[[es:ver]]
[[fr:ver]]
[[gl:ver]]
[[ko:ver]]
[[io:ver]]
[[id:ver]]
[[hu:ver]]
[[nl:ver]]
[[ja:ver]]
[[no:ver]]
[[pl:ver]]
[[pt:ver]]
[[ru:ver]]
[[fi:ver]]
[[sv:ver]]
[[vi:ver]]
[[zh:ver]]