==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# {{obsolete spelling of|en|virtuous}}
#* '''1591''', Michael Drayton, ''The Harmonie of the Church'':
#*: TO THE GODLY AND '''VERTUOUS''' LADY, THE LADY JANE DEUOREUX, OF MERIUALE.
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Twelfth Night|II|iii|page=261|passage=Doſt thou thinke becauſe thou art '''vertuous''', there ſhall be no more Cakes and Ale?}}
#* '''1659''', Francis Osborne, ''A Miscellany of Sundry Essays'':
#*: To my '''Vertuous''', ''No less than in all things else'' Deserving NIECE, Mrs. ELIZABETH DRAPER.

----

==Middle English==
<!--this Middle English entry was created using Template:new enm entry-->

===Alternative forms===
* {{alter|enm|vertews|vertuows|wertuus|vertuose|vertuus|virtuous|vertewes|vertiuus|vertuuous|vertevous|vertyuous}}

===Etymology===
Borrowed from {{bor|enm|xno|vertuous}}, {{m|fro|vertous}}, from {{der|enm|la|virtuōsus}}; equivalent to {{af|enm|vertu|-ous}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|enm|/vɛrtiu̯ˈuːs/|/ˈvɛrtiu̯us/|/ˈvɛrtiu̯əs/|/vɛrˈtuːs/|/ˈvɛrtus/}}

===Adjective===
{{enm-adj|vertuouse}}

# [[virtuous|Virtuous]]; morally correct, [[righteous]] or good:
#* {{quote-book|enm|year=1407|title=[[w:The Testimony of William Thorpe|The Testimony of William Thorpe]]|pages=40–41|passage={{...}}and so bifore alle othir men I chees wilfulli to be enformed bi hem and of hem, and speciali of Wiclef himsilf, as of the moost '''vertuous''' and goodlich wise man that I herde of owhere either knew.|translation={{...}}so, instead of other people, I willfully choose to be informed by them and of them, especially Wycliffe himself, as the most '''virtuous''' and kindly learned person that I've heard of anywhere or knew.}}
## Just, fair, unbiased; having no [[prejudice]] or [[hypocrisy]].
## [[brave|Brave]], [[fearless]]; displaying [[courageousness]] or mettle.
# Designed to teach or instill moral values; causing or producing virtue.
# Amazing, [[wonderful]], [[brilliant]]; extremely [[good]].
# [[effective|Effective]], [[useful]]; having benefits or virtues.
# Useful against [[occult]] or [[malign]] forces; warding against sorcery.
# Powerful, [[strong]]; having mightiness or potency (especially used of deities).
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Wise, learned; having expert [[knowledge]] or [[ability]].
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Wealthy, rich, [[bounteous]]; overflowing with wealth.
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Causing change or transformation; [[transformative]].
# {{lb|enm|rare}} Intense, [[rich]], [[vigourous]], [[active]].
# {{lb|enm|rare|of writing}} Exciting, [[entertaining]].

====Related terms====
* {{l|enm|vertue}}
* {{l|enm|vertuously}}
* {{l|enm|vertuousnesse}}

====Descendants====
* {{desc|en|virtuous}} {{q|obsolete {{m|en|vertuous}}}}
* {{desc|sco|virtuous}}

====References====
* {{R:MED Online|entry=vertū̆ǒus (adj.)|id=MED51037|accessdate=2018-05-14}}

[[Category:enm:Education]]
[[Category:enm:Ethics]]
[[Category:enm:Occult]]