==English==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|en|vessell}} {{qualifier|for the verb}}

===Etymology===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} {{m|fro|vaissel}} (compare modern French {{m|fr|vaisseau}}), from {{etyl|la|en}} {{m|la|vāscellum}}, diminutive of {{m|la|vāsculum}}, diminutive of {{m|la|vās||vessel}}.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈvɛs.əl/|/ˈvɛs.l̩/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-vessel.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɛsəl|lang=en}}
<!-- 2 syllable words !-->

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|nautical}} Any [[craft]] designed for [[transportation]] on [[water]], such as a [[ship]] or [[boat]]. {{defdate|From c.1300}}
#* '''1719''', [[w:Daniel Defoe|Daniel Defoe]], ''[[w:Robinson Crusoe|Robinson Crusoe]]''
#*: But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I should find some of their '''vessels''' upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
#* {{quote-magazine|date=2012-03
|author=William E. Carter, Merri Sue Carter
|title=The British Longitude Act Reconsidered
|volume=100|issue=2|page=87
|magazine=[[w:American Scientist|American Scientist]]
|url=http://www.americanscientist.org/issues/pub/the-british-longitude-act-reconsidered
|passage=Conditions were horrendous aboard most British naval '''vessels''' at the time. Scurvy and other diseases ran rampant, killing more seamen each year than all other causes combined, including combat.}}
# A craft designed for transportation through [[air]] or [[space]]. {{defdate|From 1915}}
# {{lb|en|uncountable|obsolete|or|dialectal}} Dishes and cutlery collectively, especially if made of precious metals. {{defdate|c.1300–c.1600}}
#* '''1523''', John Bourchier, tr. Jean Froissart, ''Here begynneth the first volum of sir Iohan Froyssart : of the cronycles of Englande, Fraunce, Spayne, Portyngale, Scotlande, Bretayne, Flauders: and other places adioynynge.'':
#*: All his '''Vessell''' was of golde and siluer, pottis, basons, ewers, dysshes, flagons, barels, cuppes, and all other thyngis.
# A [[container]] of liquid or other substance, such as a glass, [[goblet]], [[cup]], [[bottle]], [[bowl]], or pitcher. {{defdate|From c.1300}}
# A [[person]] as a container of qualities or feelings. {{defdate|From 1382}}
#* Bible, Acts ix. 15
#*: He is a chosen '''vessel''' unto me.
#* Milton
#*: [The serpent] fit '''vessel''', fittest imp of fraud, in whom to enter.
#* Dolly Parton, ''The Seeker'' lyrics:
#*: I am a '''vessel''' that’s empty and useless / I am a bad seed that fell by the way.
# {{lb|en|biology}} A tube or canal that carries [[fluid]] in an animal or plant. {{defdate|From 1398}}
#: ''Blood and lymph '''vessels''' are found in humans; xylem and phloem '''vessels''' are found in plants.''

====Synonyms====
* See also [[Thesaurus:vessel]]

====Derived terms====
{{rel-top3|Terms derived from the noun ''vessel''}}
* {{l|en|broken vessel}}
* {{l|en|empty vessels make the most sound}}
* {{l|en|fishing vessel}}
* {{l|en|lightvessel}}
{{rel-mid3}}
* {{l|en|microvessel}}
* {{l|en|motor vessel}}
* {{l|en|pressure vessel}}
{{rel-mid3}}
* {{l|en|reaction vessel}}
* {{l|en|sailing vessel}}
* {{l|en|unvessel}}
* {{l|en|weaker vessel}}
{{rel-bottom}}

====Translations====
{{trans-top|craft}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|فُلْك|m}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|vaixell}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|船隻}}, {{t+|cmn|船只|tr=chuánzhī}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|loď|f}}
* Danish: {{t+|da|fartøj|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vaartuig|n}}
* Faroese: {{t+|fo|far|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|alus}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vaisseau|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|navío|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Schiff}}, {{t+|de|Boot|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκάφος|n}}, {{t+|el|πλοίο|n}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|πλοίον|n}}
* Gujarati: {{t|gu|વહાણ}}, {{t+|gu|જહાજ}}
* Hungarian: {{t|hu|vízi jármű}}, {{t+|hu|hajó}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vascello|m}}, {{t+|it|imbarcazione|f}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|船舶|tr=せんぱく, senpaku}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|배}}, {{t|ko|선박}} ({{t+|ko|船舶}})
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|пло́вило|n}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|waka}}
* Navajo: {{t|nv|tsin naaʼeeł}}
* Norwegian:
*: Bokmål: {{t+|nb|fartøy|n}}, {{t|nb|farkost|m}}
*: Nynorsk: {{t|nn|fartøy|n}}, {{t|nn|farkost|m}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|statek|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|barco|m}}, {{t+|pt|navio|m}}, {{t+|pt|embarcação|f}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|ambarcațiune|f}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|кора́бль|m}}, {{t+|ru|су́дно|m}}
* Sardinian:
*: Logudorese: {{t|sc|feluga}}, {{t|sc|filuga}}, {{t|sc|feluca}}
* Skolt Sami: {{t|sms|leˊtt}}
* Slovak: {{t+|sk|loď|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|embarcación|f}}, {{t+|es|barco|m}}, {{t+|es|casco|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|fartyg|n}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|ఓడ}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|เรือ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|tekne}}, {{t+|tr|gemi}}
* Vietnamese: {{t|vi|thuyền lớn}}, {{t+|vi|tàu thuỷ}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|doaze}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|container}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|وِعَاء|m}}
* Armenian: {{t+|hy|անոթ}}
* Aromanian: {{t|rup|vas|n}}
* Bashkir: {{t|ba|һауыт}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|容器|tr=róngqì}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|nádoba|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vat|n}}, {{t|nl|hulsel|n}}
* Esperanto: {{t|eo|vazo}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|astia}}, {{t+|fi|säiliö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|recipient|m|alt=récipient}}, {{t+|fr|vaisseau|m}}, {{t+|fr|vase|m}}
* Galician: {{t|gl|vasilla|f}}
* Georgian: {{t|ka|ჭურჭელი}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gefäß|n}}, {{t+|de|Behälter|m}}, {{t+|de|Behältnis|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|σκεύος|n}}, {{t+|el|δοχείο|n}}, {{t+|el|αγγείο|n}}
*: Ancient: {{t|grc|ἀγγεῖον|n}}
* Gujarati: {{t|gu|વાસણ}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|edény}}, {{t+|hu|tál}}
* Ido: {{t+|io|vazo}}
* Irish: {{t|ga|leastar|m}}, {{t|ga|áras|m}}, {{t|ga|galún|m}}, {{t|ga|soitheach|m}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|recipiente|m}}, {{t+|it|contenitore|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: {{t+|ja|容器|tr=ようき, yōki}}
* Korean: {{t+|ko|그릇}}
* Latgalian: {{t|ltg|trauks}}
* Latvian: {{t|lv|trauks}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|сад|m}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|puoto}}, {{t|mi|oko}}, {{t|mi|peihana}}, {{t|mi|tīhake}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|naczynie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vasilha|f}}, {{t+|pt|vaso|m}}, {{t+|pt|reservatório|m}}, {{t+|pt|recipiente|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|recipient}}, {{t+|ro|vas|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сосу́д|m}}
* Slovak: {{t|sk|nádoba|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|recipiente|m}}, {{t+|es|receptáculo|m}}, {{t+|es|vaso|m}}, {{t+|es|vasija|f}}, {{t+|es|recinto}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|behållare|c}}
* Telugu: {{t+|te|పాత్ర}}
* Thai: {{t+|th|ภาชนะ}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|kap}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
* Welsh: {{t+|cy|llestr|m}}
* West Frisian: {{t|fy|fet}}, {{t|fy|bokse}}
* Westrobothnian: {{t|gmq-bot|tjäril|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|tube or canal that carries fluid in an animal or plant}}
* Arabic: {{t|ar|وِعَاء|m}}
* Azerbaijani: {{t+|az|damar}}
* Bashkir: {{qualifier|blood vessel}} {{t|ba|тамыр}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|管|tr=guǎn}}, {{qualifier|blood vessel}} {{t+|cmn|血管|tr=xuèguǎn, xiěguǎn}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|céva|f}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vat|n}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|suoni}} {{qualifier|animal}}; {{t+|fi|putkilo}} {{qualifier|plant}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vaisseau|m}}
* German: {{t+|de|Gefäß|n}}
* Greek: {{t+|el|αγγείο|n}}
* Gujarati: {{t+|gu|નસ}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vaso|m}}
* Japanese: {{qualifier|blood vessel}} {{t+|ja|血管|tr=けっかん, kekkan}}
* Macedonian: {{t|mk|сад|m}}
* Persian: {{t+|fa|آوند|tr=âvand}}, {{t+|fa|رگ|tr=rag}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|naczynie|n}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vaso|m}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|сосу́д|m}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vaso|m}}
* Thai: {{qualifier|blood vessel}} {{t+|th|เส้นเลือด}}
* Tok Pisin: {{t|tpi|mambu}}
* Turkish: {{t+|tr|damar}}
* Vietnamese: {{t+|vi|mạch}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|vessels|vesselling|pres_ptc2=vesseling|vesselled|past2=vesseled}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To put into a vessel.
#* '''1577''', [[w:William Harrison (priest)|William Harrison]], ''The Description of England'' in ''[[w:Holinshed's Chronicles|Holinshed’s Chronicles]]'', Volume 1, Book 3, Chapter 12 “Of venemous beastes &c.,”<sup>[http://english.nsms.ox.ac.uk/holinshed/texts.php?text1=1577_0089]</sup>
#*: Our hony also is taken and reputed to be the best bycause it is harder, better wrought & clenlyer '''vesselled''' vp, then that which commeth from beyond the sea {{...}}
#* '''1627''', {{w|Francis Bacon}}, ''Sylva Sylvarum: or, A Naturall Historie'', London: W. Lee, Cent. VI, section 529, p. 137,<sup>[https://archive.org/details/1627sylvasylvarv00baco]</sup>
#*: The fourth Rule shall be, to marke what ''Herbs, some Earths doe put forth of themselves''; And to take that ''Earth'', and to ''Pot'' it, or to '''''Vessell''''' it; And in that to set the ''Seed'' you would change {{...}}
#* '''1662''', [[w:John Heydon (astrologer)|John Heydon]], ''The Harmony of the World'', London: Robert Horn, Epistle Dedicatory,<sup>[https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100241664]</sup>
#*: Man had at the first, and so have all souls before their entrance into the body, an explicite methodicall knowledge, but they are no sooner '''vessel’d''', but that liberty is lost, and nothing remains but a vast confused notion of the creature {{...}}
#* '''2009''', Reaper (TV series), 2nd season, episode known as ''The Home Stretch'':
#*: [Samuel 'Sam' Oliver:] Alright (''or:'' All right), so the Devil didn't say that the winner was the one who '''vesseled''' (''or:'' '''vesselled''') him, just the one who sends him back to hell.

===References===
* {{R:Webster NCD 1974}}

===Anagrams===
* {{anagrams|en|-selves|selves}}

[[Category:en:Containers]]