==English==
{{wikipedia|dab=view (disambiguation)|view}}
{{rank|late|bed|living|531|view|although|knowledge|hath}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/vjuː/}}
* {{audio|en-us-view.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
From {{AF.}} ''vewe'', from {{OF.}} ''veue'' (French: ''[[vue]]''), feminine past participle of ''veoir'' (French: ''[[voir]]'' "to see").

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of seeing or looking at something.
#: ''He changed seat to get a complete '''view''' of the stage.''
# The range of vision.
#: ''If there are any rabbits in this park, they keep carefully out of our '''view'''.''
# Something to look at, such as a scenery.
#: ''My flat has a '''view''' of a junkyard.''
# A picture.
#: ''There was a '''view''' of the accident site on the front page.''
# A mental image.
#: ''I need more information to get a better '''view''' of the situation.''
# A way of understanding something, an opinion, a theory.
#: ''Your '''view''' on evolution is based on religion, not on scientific findings.''
# A point of view.
#: ''From my view that is a stupid proposition.''
# An intention or prospect.
#: ''I gave you the money with the [[view]] that you would invest it wisely.''

====Translations====
{{trans-top|seeing}}
* Finnish: [[näkymä]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|range of vision}}
* Czech: {{t-|cs|dohled|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[näköpiiri]], [[näköala]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|something to look at}}
* Arabic: {{Arab|[[منظر]]}} (mánʐar)
* [[Catalan]]: [[vista]] {{f}}
* Chinese: [[觀點]], [[观点]] (guāndiǎn)
* Danish: [[udsigt#Danish|udsigt]]
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|zicht}}
* Estonian: {{t-|et|vaade}}
* Finnish: [[näkymä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|vue|f}}
* German: {{t+|de|Anblick}}, {{t+|de|Sicht|f}}, {{t+|de|Ansicht|f}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|veduta|f}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Japanese: [[景色]] (けしき, keshiki)
* Korean: [[경치]] (gyeongchi)
* [[Malayalam]]: [[കാഴ്ച]] (kaazhcha)
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[دید]]}} (dīd)
* Polish: [[widok]] {{m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vista|f}}
* Russian: [[вид]] (vid) {{m}}
* Spanish: {{t-|es|vista|f}}
* Swedish: [[vy]], [[utsikt]]
* [[Telugu]]: [[దృశ్యం]] (dRSyaM)
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|picture}}
* Finnish: [[näkymä]], [[kuva]]
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|mental image}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|kuva}}, {{t+|fi|käsitys}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|way of understanding}}
* Dutch: {{t-|nl|opvatting}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|näkemys}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|point of view}}
* Czech: {{t+|cs|pohled|m}}, {{t+|cs|názor|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Finnish: [[näkökulma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|intention}}
* Finnish: {{t-|fi|oletus}}, {{t+|fi|tarkoitus}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[look at]].

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to look at}}
* [[Azeri]]: {{t|az|görüş|xs=Azeri}}
* [[Catalan]]: [[veure]]
* Croatian: {{t+|hr|vidjeti}}
* Dutch: ([[bekijken|be]])[[kijken]]
* Finnish: [[vilkaista]], [[katsoa]], [[nähdä]]
* French: {{t+|fr|regarder}}
* German: {{t+|de|sehen}}, {{t+|de|anschauen}}
* Hebrew: [[רואה]] (ro'e)
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|guardare}}
* Persian: {{fa-Arab|[[دیدن]]}} (didan)
* Polish: [[widok]]
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|ver}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|видеть|sc=Cyrl}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|ver}}
* [[Telugu]]: [[చూచు]] (choochu)
{{trans-bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[point of view]]
* [[viewer]]
* [[viewfinder]]
* [[viewing]]<!--noun, as in "a viewing of a property"-->
* [[viewpoint]]
* [[in view of]]

===Related terms===
* [[interview]]
* [[preview]]
* [[review]]
* [[overview]]

===See also===
* [[see]]
* [[look]]
* [[voyeur]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Communication]]

[[ar:view]]
[[de:view]]
[[fr:view]]
[[ko:view]]
[[hy:view]]
[[io:view]]
[[it:view]]
[[kk:view]]
[[ku:view]]
[[lo:view]]
[[hu:view]]
[[ja:view]]
[[pl:view]]
[[pt:view]]
[[ru:view]]
[[simple:view]]
[[fi:view]]
[[sv:view]]
[[ta:view]]
[[te:view]]
[[vi:view]]
[[uk:view]]
[[zh:view]]