==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{a|UK}} {{enPR|/vĭvĭʹdĭtēz/}}, {{IPA|/vɪˈvɪdɪtiːz/}}, {{SAMPA|/vI"vIdIti:z/}}

===Noun===
'''vividities''' {{p}}

# {{plural of|[[vividity#English|vividity]]}}
#* '''1823''': A<small>UTHOR UNKNOWN</small>, ''The Lady’s magazine (and museum). Improved ser., enlarged'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=ckgFAAAAQAAJ&dq=vividities p266]
#*: …and the '''vividities''' of passion, the writer may not have known how to procure the morrow’s sustenance.
#* '''1925''': Joseph Conrad, ''The Complete Works of Joseph Conrad'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=7ck6AAAAIAAJ&q=vividities&dq=vividities&pgis=1 p255] {{i|[[nota bene|Nota bene]]: this citation and every one of those marked with a [[superscribe]]d [[obelus]] (†) are identical copies of [[w:Joseph Conrad|Joseph Conrad’s]] unfinished last novel “[[s:Suspense: A Napoleonic Novel|Suspense]]” (published [[posthumous]]ly in 1925); the citation marked with a superscribed [[double obelus]] (‡) also quotes thence, but is not [[verbatim]] identical.}}
#*: At every momentary pause in his long and fantastic adventure it returned with its splendid charm and glorious serenity, resembling the power of a great and unfathomable love whose tenderness like a sacred spell lays to rest all the '''vividities''' and all the violences of passionate desire.
#* '''1928''': Joseph Conrad, ''Suspense: A Napoleonic Novel'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=NE0eAAAAIAAJ&q=vividities&dq=vividities&pgis=1 p255] <sup>†</sup>
#*: At every momentary pause in his long and fantastic adventure it returned with its splendid charm and glorious serenity, resembling the power of a great and unfathomable love whose tenderness like a sacred spell lays to rest all the '''vividities''' and all the violences of passionate desire.
#* '''1958''': Joseph Conrad, ''The Concord Edition of the Works of Joseph Conrad — Suspense: A Napoleonic Novel'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=kQMsAAAAIAAJ&q=vividities&dq=vividities&pgis=1 p255] <sup>†</sup>
#*: At every momentary pause in his long and fantastic adventure it returned with its splendid charm and glorious serenity, resembling the power of a great and unfathomable love whose tenderness like a sacred spell lays to rest all the '''vividities''' and all the violences of passionate desire.
#* '''1977''': Angus Wilson & John Holloway, ''Writers of East Anglia'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=Duo8AAAAIAAJ&q=vividities&dq=vividities&pgis=1 p120]
#*: We are the echoes from the planets, <br>
#*:   the blackbody '''vividities''', <br>
#*:   and the high-energy tailing <br>
#*:   that flows from the springs of time. [ …]
#* '''1995''': Joseph Conrad, ''The Collected Works of Joseph Conrad'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=ZY6y3Dujc2AC&pg=PA255&dq=vividities&sig=mLlD5LLYG5zhGTAh_qkgG_Y1Q8E p255] <sup>†</sup>
#*: At every momentary pause in his long and fantastic adventure it returned with its splendid charm and glorious serenity, resembling the power of a great and unfathomable love whose tenderness like a sacred spell lays to rest all the '''vividities''' and all the violences of passionate desire.
#* '''2005''': Carola M Kaplan, Peter Lancelot Mallios, and Andrea White (including NetLibrary), ''Conrad in the Twenty-first Century: Contemporary Approaches and Perspectives'', [http://www.google.co.uk/books?id=-MBEWHp3ITMC&pg=PA192&dq=vividities&sig=hVxvjL89haSMqgIg9Q7a6Grz8gs p192] <sup>‡</sup>
#*: Yet there is one important difference between his growing attachment to Adele and his sudden entanglement with Attilio’s band. His love only provoked a vision and consequently an unbearable degree of agitation that forced him to flee even his bedchamber at Cantelucci’s inn, whereas aboard the conspirators’ boat Cosmo luxuriates in a paradoxical “feeling of peace that had come to him directly his trouble had begun,” and that “like a sacred spell lays to rest all the '''vividities''' and … violences of passionate desire” (''Su'' 244, 255).

[[Category:English plurals ending in "-ies"]]