==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[vois]]'', ''[[voys]]'', Old French ''[[vois]]'', ''[[voiz]]'', French ''[[voix]]'', Latin ''[[vox]]'', ''[[vocis]]'', akin to Sanskrit [[वच्]] (to say, to speak) and German ''[[erwähnen]]'' (to mention). Compare [[advocate]], [[advowson]], [[avouch]], [[convoke]], [[epic]], [[vocal]], [[vouch]], [[vowel]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/vɔɪs/}}
*{{audio|en-us-voice.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{rhymes|ɔɪs}}

===Noun===
'''voice''' (''plural:'' [[voices]])

# Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human '''voice'''; a pleasant '''voice'''; a low '''voice'''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He with a manly '''voice''' saith his message. — [[Chaucer]]
#:*Her '''voice''' was ever soft, Gentle, and low; an excellent thing in woman. — Shakespeare, ''King Lear, V-iii''
#:*Thy '''voice''' is music. — Shakespeare, ''Henry V, V-ii''
#:*Join thy '''voice''' unto the angel choir. — [[Milton]]
# {{phonetics}} Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants ''b'', ''v'', ''d'', etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; — distinguished from mere [[breath]] sound as heard in ''f'', ''s'', ''sh'', etc., and also ''whisper''.
#:'''Note''': Voice, in this sense, is produced by vibration of the vocal cords in the larynx which act upon the air, not in the manner of the strings of a stringed instrument, but as a pair of membranous tongues, or reeds, which, being continually forced apart by the outgoing current of breath, and continually brought together again by their own elasticity and muscular tension, break the breath current into a series of puffs, or pulses, sufficiently rapid to cause the sensation of tone. The [[power]], or [[loudness]], of such a tone depends on the force of the separate pulses, and this is determined by the pressure of the expired air, together with the resistance on the part of the vocal cords which is continually overcome. Its [[pitch]] depends on the number of aërial pulses within a given time, that is, on the rapidity of their succession.
# The tone or sound emitted by anything
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*After the fire a still small '''voice'''. — ''1 Kings 19:12''
#:*Canst thou thunder with a '''voice''' like him? — ''Job 40:9''
#:*The floods have lifted up their '''voice'''. — ''Psalms 93:3
#:*O Marcus, I am warm’d; my heart Leaps at the trumpet’s '''voice'''. — [[Addison]]
# The faculty or power of utterance; as, to cultivate the '''voice'''
# Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I desire to be present with you now, and to change my '''voice'''; for I stand in doubt of you. — ''Galatians 4:20
#:*My '''voice''' is in my sword. — Shakespeare, ''Macbeth, V-vii''
#:*Let us call on God in the '''voice''' of his church. — [[Bp. Fell]]
# Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''Sicinius''. How now, my masters! have you chose this man? / ''1st Citizen''. He has our '''voices''', sir. — Shakespeare, ''Coriolanus, II-iii''
#:*Some laws ordain, and some attend the choice / Of holy senates, and elect by '''voice'''. — [[Dryden]]
# Command; precept; — now chiefly used in scriptural language.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*So shall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the '''voice''' of the Lord your God. — ''Deuteronomy 8:20''
# One who speaks; a speaker.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A potent '''voice''' of Parliament. — [[Tennyson]]
# {{Grammar}} A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses.

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song}}
*Czech: [[hlas]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[stemme]] {{c}}, [[røst]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[ääni]]
*German: [[Stimme]] {{f}}
*Greek: {{t|el|φωνή|f|s}} (foní)
*{{trreq|Hebrew}}
*Icelandic: [[rödd]] {{f}}, [[málrómur]] {{m}}, [[rómur]] {{m}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[音声]] ([[おんせい]], onsei), [[声]] ([[こえ]], koe)
*[[Nahuatl]]: [[tozquiuaua]]
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ده‌نگ]]}}
*Polish: [[głos]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[голос]] (gólos) {{m}}
*Scots: [[vyce]]
*Spanish: [[voz]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[röst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels}}
*Danish: [[stemning]] {{c}}
*German: [[Stimme]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Japanese: [[有声音]] (ゆうせいおん, yuseion)
*Spanish: [[sonoro]] {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The tone or sound emitted by anything}}
*Danish: [[lyd]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[ääni]]
*German: [[Stimme]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Polish: [[głos]] {{m}}
*Scots: [[vyce]]
*Spanish: [[voz]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|The faculty or power of utterance}}
*Danish: [[gennemslagskraft]] {{c}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Polish: [[głos]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[voz]] {{f}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion}}
*Danish: [[stemme]] {{c}}
*Polish: [[głos]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[palabra]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[röst]] {{c}}, [[stämma]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote}}
*Czech: [[hlas]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[stemme]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[mielipide]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Kurdish: {{KUchar|[[ده‌نگ]]}}
*Polish: [[głos]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[voto]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[röst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Command, precept}}
*Danish: [[vilje]] {{c}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[vilja]] {{c}}, [[röst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|One who speaks; a speaker}}
*Danish: [[stemme]] {{c}}
*Spanish: [[orden]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[röst]] {{c}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb}}
*Danish: [[form]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[pääluokka]]
*Spanish: [[voz]] {{f}}
{{trans-mid}}
*Russian: [[залог]] (zalóg) {{m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[صوت]]}} (ʂaut)
*{{ttbc|Azeri}}: səs
*{{ttbc|Basque}}: [[boz]]
*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: [[glas#Bosnian|glas]] {{m}}, [[avaz#Bosnian|avaz]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: [[mouezh]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[veu]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[聲]], [[声]] (shēng), [[聲音]], [[声音]] (shēngyīn)
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[glas#Croatian|glas]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[stem]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[voĉo]]
*{{ttbc|Filipino}}: [[boses]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[voix]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Stimme]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[ñe'ẽpu]]
*{{ttbc|Gujarati}}: [[અવાજ]] (avāj)
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[आवाज]] (āvāj), [[आवाज़]] (āvāz)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[hang]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[voco]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[suara]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[voce]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[guth]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[voce]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[声]] ([[こえ]], koe), [[濁音]] (だくおん, dakuon), [[態]] (たい, tai)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[목소리]] (moksori)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[vox]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[stemme]], [[røst]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[آواز]]}} (āvaz)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[voz]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[voce]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Scottish Gaelic}}: [[guth]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}:
*:Cyrillic: [[глас#Serbian|глас]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[glas#Serbian|glas]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Tamil}}: [[குரல்]] (kural)
*{{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[boses]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ses]], [[seda]], [[avaz#Turkish|avaz]]
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{URchar|[[آواز]]}} (āvaz)
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[voice of the toothless one]]

FIXME: the following should be separate articles:
*'''Active voice''' ''(Grammar):'' that form of the verb by which its subject is represented as the agent or doer of the action expressed by it.
*'''Chest voice''' ''(Phonology):'' a kind of voice of a medium or low pitch and of a sonorous quality ascribed to resonance in the chest, or thorax; voice of the thick register. It is produced by vibration of the vocal cords through their entire width and thickness, and with convex surfaces presented to each other.
*'''Head voice''' ''(Phonology):'' a kind of voice of high pitch and of a thin quality ascribed to resonance in the head; voice of the thin register; falsetto. In producing it, the vibration of the cords is limited to their thin edges in the upper part, which are then presented to each other.
*'''Middle voice''' ''(Grammar):'' that form of the verb by which its subject is represented as both the agent, or doer, and the object of the action, that is, as performing some act to or upon himself, or for his own advantage.
*'''Passive voice''' {{Grammar}}: See under [[passive]], (adjective).
*'''Voice glide''' ''(Pronunciation):'' the brief and obscure neutral vowel sound that sometimes occurs between two consonants in an unaccented syllable (represented by the apostrophe), as in '''able'''. See [[glide]], (Noun 2)
*'''Voice stop'''. See [[voiced stop]], under [[voiced]], (Adjective)
*'''With one voice''', unanimously.
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*All ''with one voice'' . . . cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians. — ''Acts 19:34''

===Verb===
{{en-verb|[[voices]]|[[voicing]]|[[voiced]]}}

# {{transitive}} To give [[utterance]] or [[expression]] to; to utter; to [[publish]]; to [[announce]]; to divulge; as, to '''voice''' the sentiments of the nation.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Rather assume thy right in silence and . . . then '''voice''' it with claims and challenges. — [[Bacon]]
#:*It was '''voiced''' that the king purposed to put to death Edward Plantagenet. — [[Bacon]]
# {{context|transitive|phonology}} To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper.
# {{transitive}} To fit for producing the [[proper]] [[sound]]s; to [[regulate]] the tone of; as, to '''voice''' the pipes of an organ.
# {{context|transitive|obsolete}} To [[vote]]; to [[elect]]; to [[appoint]] — [[Shakespeare]]
# {{context|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[clamor]]; to cry out — [[South]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|Give utterance or expression to}}
*Danish: give [[udtryk]] for, [[udtrykke]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[uttrycka]], [[ge uttryck för]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Utter with a sonant or vocal tone}}
*Danish: [[udtale]] [[stemt]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[tala]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Regulate the tone of}}
*Danish: [[stemme]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[stämma]]
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Vote}}
*Danish: [[stemme]]
{{trans-mid}}
*Swedish: [[rösta]] (''vote''), [[välja]] (''elect'')
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|Clamor}}
{{trans-mid}}
{{trans-bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[表明]] (biǎomíng), [[發聲]] (fāshēng), [[出聲]] (chūshēng)
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: z'n stem laten horen
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[voĉi]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[exprimer]], [[énoncer]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[exprimer]], [[manifestar]], [[vociferar]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[声に出す]] (koe ni dasu)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[expressar]], [[exprimir]], [[manifestar]], [[vociferar]], [[proferir]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[exprima]], [[manifesta]], [[vocifera]], [[anunţa]]

===See also===
*{{pedialite|voice}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Communication]]
[[Category:Sound]]

[[ang:voice]]
[[ar:voice]]
[[el:voice]]
[[fa:voice]]
[[fr:voice]]
[[ko:voice]]
[[io:voice]]
[[id:voice]]
[[it:voice]]
[[kk:voice]]
[[ky:voice]]
[[hu:voice]]
[[ja:voice]]
[[pl:voice]]
[[simple:voice]]
[[fi:voice]]
[[ta:voice]]
[[vi:voice]]
[[tr:voice]]
[[uk:voice]]
[[zh:voice]]