==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/vɔɪd/|/'vɔɪ.əd/|lang=en}}
* {{audio|en-us-void.ogg|Audio (US)|lang=en}}
* {{rhymes|ɔɪd|lang=en}}

===Etymology 1===
From {{etyl|fro|en}} ''[[vuit]]'', ''[[voide]]'' (modern {{m|fr|vide}}), in turn from {{etyl|la|en}} ''[[vacivus]]''.

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Containing nothing; empty; vacant; not occupied; not filled.
#* Bible, Genesis i. 2
#*: The earth was without form, and '''void'''.
#* Shakespeare
#*: I'll get me to a place more '''void'''.
#* Massinger
#*: I'll chain him in my study, that, at '''void''' hours, / I may run over the story of his country.
# Having no [[incumbent]]; unoccupied; said of [[office]]s etc.
#* Camden
#*: divers great offices that had been long '''void'''
# Being without; destitute; devoid.
#* Bible, Proverbs xi. 12
#*: He that is '''void''' of wisdom despiseth his neighbor.
# Not producing any effect; ineffectual; vain.
#* Bible, Isa. lv. 11
#*: [My word] shall not return to me '''void''', but it shall accomplish that which I please.
#* Bible, Jer. xix. 7
#*: I will make '''void''' the counsel of Judah.
# Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation or ratification.
#: ''[[null and void]]''
# Containing no immaterial quality; destitute of mind or soul.
#* Alexander Pope
#*: idol, '''void''' and vain
# {{lb|en|computing|programming|of a [[function]] or [[method]]}} That does not [[return]] a value.
#* '''2005''', Craig Larman, ''Applying UML and patterns''
#*: In particular, the ''roll'' method is '''void''' — it has no return value.
#* '''2007''', Andrew Krause, ''Foundations of GTK+ Development''
#*: The return value can safely be ignored if it is a '''void''' function.

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|containing nothing}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vuoto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hemahema}}, {{t|mi|tahanga}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|unoccupied}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vuoto}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|wātea}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|being without}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|[[jolta]] [[puuttuu]]}} {{qualifier|"who is lacking"}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|privo}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|not producing any effect; ineffectual; vain}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vano}}, {{t+|it|inutile}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|having lost all legal validity}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|ongeldig}}, {{t+|nl|nietig}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mitätön}}, {{t+|fi|pätemätön}}, {{t+|fi|mitätöity}}
* French: {{t+|fr|nul}}
* German: {{t+|de|ungültig}}, {{t+|de|nichtig}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|érvénytelen}}, {{t+|hu|semmis}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|batal}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|nulle}}, {{t|ia|invalide}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nullo}}, {{t|it|non valido}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|mārua}}, {{t|mi|manakore}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|ugyldig}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|nieważny|m}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|nulo|m}}, {{t+|pt|inválido|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|nul}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nulo|m}}, {{t+|es|inválido|m}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|walang-bisa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|containing no immaterial quality}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjä}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vuoto}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|computing: not returning value}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjä}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|nullo}}, {{t+|it|vuoto}}, {{t|it|non valido}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|nulo|m}}, {{t+|es|inválido|m}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Noun====
{{wikipedia|Void (astronomy)}}
{{en-noun}}

# An empty space; a [[vacuum]].
#: ''Nobody has crossed the '''void''' since one man died trying three hundred years ago; it's high time we had another go.''
#* Alexander Pope
#*: Pride, where wit fails, steps in to our defence, / And fills up all the mighty '''void''' of sense.
# {{lb|en|astronomy}} An extended region of [[space]] containing no [[galaxy|galaxies]]
# {{lb|en|materials science}} A collection of adjacent [[vacancy|vacancies]] inside a [[crystal]] [[lattice]].
# {{lb|en|fluid mechanics}} A pocket of [[vapour]] inside a fluid flow, created by [[cavitation]].

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|(engineering) collection of vacancies}} {{l|en|pore}}
* {{sense|(engineering) pocket of vapour in fluid}} {{l|en|bubble}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|An empty space; a vacuum}}
* Catalan: {{t+|ca|buit|m}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|prázdnota|f}}
* Danish: {{t|da|tomrum|n}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|vacuüm}}, {{t+|nl|leegte}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|tyhjiö}}
* French: {{t+|fr|vide|m}}, {{t+|fr|néant|m}}
* German: {{t|de|Leere|f}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|üresség}}, {{t+|hu|űr}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|hampa}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|vacuo}}
* Italian: {{t+|it|vacuo|m}}, {{t+|it|vuoto|m}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|hemanga}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|intet|n}}, {{t|no|tomhet|m}}, {{t+|no|vakuum|n}}, {{t+|no|tomrom|n}}
* Polish: {{t+|pl|pustka|f}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|vazio|m}}, {{t+|pt|vácuo|m}}
* Romanian: {{t+|ro|vid|n}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|пустота́|f}}
* Serbo-Croatian:
*: Cyrillic: {{t|sh|празнина|f|sc=Cyrl}}
*: Latin: {{t+|sh|praznina|f|sc=Latn}}
* Slovene: {{t|sl|praznina|f}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|vacío|m}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|tomrum|n}}
{{trans-bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{lb|en|transitive}} To make invalid or worthless.
#: {{ux|en|He '''voided''' the check and returned it.}}
#* {{w|Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon|Earl of Clarendon}} (1609-1674)
#*: It was become a practice{{...}}to '''void''' the security that was at any time given for money so borrowed.
#* {{w|Gilbert Burnet|Bishop Burnet}} (1643-1715)
#*: after they had '''voided''' the obligation of the oath he had taken
# {{lb|en|transitive|medicine}} To empty.
#: {{ux|en|'''void''' one’s bowels}}
# To throw or send out; to evacuate; to emit; to discharge.
#: {{ux|en|to '''void''' excrement}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Merchant}}
#*: You, that did void your rheum upon my beard, And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
#* {{w|John Webster}} (c.1580-c.1634)
#*: With shovel, like a fury, '''voided''' out / The earth and scattered bones.
#* {{w|Isaac Barrow}} (1630-1677)
#*: a watchful application of mind in '''voiding''' prejudices
# {{lb|en|intransitive|obsolete}} To [[withdraw]], [[depart]].
#* {{RQ:Mlry MrtDrthr|3.14|2|I|xvj}}:
#*: BY than come in to the feld kynge Ban as fyers as a lyon{{...}}/ Ha a said kyng Lot we must be discomfyte / for yonder I see the moste valyaunt knyght of the world / and the man of the most renoume / for suche ij bretheren as is kyng Ban & kyng bors ar not lyuynge / wherfore we must nedes '''voyde''' or deye
<!--Prior quote:suche ii brethren as is kyng Ban & kyng bors ar not lyuynge, wherfore we must nedes '''voyde''' or deye.-->
# {{lb|en|transitive|obsolete}} To remove the contents of; to make or leave vacant or empty; to quit; to leave.
#: {{ux|en|to '''void''' a table}}
#* {{quote-book|year=1394|author={{w|Geoffrey Chaucer|Chaucer}}|title={{w|The Franklin's Tale}}|chapter=v. 1149|edition=|url=http://books.google.com/books?id=OnkgAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA642|passage=Somtyme a castel, al of lym and stoon; And whan hem lyked, '''voyded''' it anon.}}
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Henry 5}}
#*: If they will fight with us, bid them come down, / Or '''void''' the field.

=====Synonyms=====
* {{sense|make invalid or worthless}} {{l|en|annul}}, {{l|en|cancel}}
* {{sense|(medicine) to empty}} {{l|en|evacuate}}

=====Translations=====
{{trans-top|to make invalid or worthless}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|annuleren}}, {{t|nl|ongeldig maken}}
* Finnish: {{t+|fi|mitätöidä}}
* French: {{t+|fr|annuler}}, {{t+|fr|résilier}}, {{t+|fr|révoquer}}
* German: {{t+|de|löschen}}, {{t+|de|annullieren}}
* Indonesian: {{t|id|membatalkan}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|annullar}}, {{t|ia|invalidar}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Norwegian: {{t|no|annulere}}, {{t|no|gjøre ugyldig}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|anular}}, {{t+|pt|invalidar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|anular}}, {{t+|es|invalidar}}
* Swedish: {{t+|sv|annullera}}, {{t+|sv|upphäva}}
* Tagalog: {{t|tl|waling-bisa}}
{{trans-bottom}}

{{trans-top|(medicine) to empty}}
* Dutch: {{t+|nl|legen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|tyhjentää}}
* German: {{t+|de|entleeren}}, {{t+|de|leeren}}
* Hungarian: {{t+|hu|ürít}}
* Indonesian: {{t+|id|mengosongkan}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Interlingua: {{t|ia|vacuar}}, {{t|ia|evacuar}}
* Maori: {{t|mi|paru}}
* Norwegian: {{t+|no|tømme}}
* Portuguese: {{t+|pt|esvaziar}}, {{t+|pt|evacuar}}
* Spanish: {{t+|es|evacuar}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Alteration of {{term|voidee}}.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{lb|en|now|_|rare|historical}} A [[voidee]]. {{defdate|from 15th c.}}
#* '''2011''', Thomas Penn, ''Winter King'', Penguin 2012, p. 68:
#*: Late on the final evening, as the customary ‘'''void'''’ – spiced wine and sweetmeats – was served, more elaborate disguisings in the great hall culminated in the release of a flock of white doves.

===Anagrams===
* {{l|en|Ovid}}

----

==Middle French==

===Alternative forms===
* {{l|frm|voit}}

===Verb===
{{head|frm|verb form}}

# {{form of|third-person singular indicative present form|veoir|lang=frm}}

[[ar:void]]
[[ca:void]]
[[de:void]]
[[et:void]]
[[es:void]]
[[fa:void]]
[[fr:void]]
[[ko:void]]
[[hy:void]]
[[io:void]]
[[it:void]]
[[kn:void]]
[[ku:void]]
[[lt:void]]
[[hu:void]]
[[mg:void]]
[[ml:void]]
[[my:void]]
[[oc:void]]
[[pl:void]]
[[pt:void]]
[[ru:void]]
[[sm:void]]
[[fi:void]]
[[sv:void]]
[[ta:void]]
[[te:void]]
[[chr:void]]
[[vi:void]]
[[zh:void]]