==English==
{{was wotd|2010|May|28}}
{{wikipedia|Foot voting}}

=== Verb ===
{{head|en|verb|head=[[vote]] [[with]] [[one]][['s]] [[feet]]}}

# {{lb|en|idiomatic}} To express one's [[preference]]s through one's actions, by [[voluntarily]] [[participate|participating]] in or [[withdraw]]ing from an activity, group, or process; especially, by physical [[migration]] to leave a situation one does not like, or to move to a situation one regards as more beneficial.
#* '''1958''' December 8, "Most Useful Satellite", [[w:Time (magazine)|''Time'']]:<!--There are _much_ earlier uses than 1958, but that's the earliest I could confirm a quotation from easily.-->
#*: But Khrushchev's economic plan for the East Germans means a new kind of dependence on their old Russian foes, and its fulfillment is a political question—on which East Germans, whatever their phony 99.9% elections say, still '''vote with their feet''' by fleeing West at the rate of 2,000 a week.
#* '''1973''' April 2, "The Ph.D. Glut", [[w:Time (magazine)|''Time'']]:
#*: That would enable the students to "'''vote with their feet'''" for programs of proven excellence and presumably for fields where the most jobs are available.
#* '''1985''' May 13, "Business Notes Airlines",<!--someone should check that on paper or microfiche: it probably needs a colon or dash: i only saw it online--> [[w:Time (magazine)|''Time'']]:
#*: TWA expects that its lounger will keep it flying high in transatlantic business, where it now leads all other airlines. Says Jesse Liebman, a TWA vice president: "Passengers '''vote with their feet'''."
#* '''1991''' December 10, "IAP needs you", [[w:The Tech (newspaper)|''The Tech'']]:
#*: Please, '''vote with your feet'''—participate in IAP.
#* '''2002''', Jim Cramer, ''Confessions of a Street Addict'', Simon and Schuster, {{ISBN|0743224884}}, page 104:
#*: Then again, I knew that shareholder democracy meant only that I should '''vote with my feet''' if I didn't like what management was doing.
#* '''2005''', Diane E. Davis, ''Political Power and Social Theory'', Elsevier, {{ISBN|0762311908}}, page 188:
#*: The conventional wisdom ca. 1980 was that if an investor did not like the way a firm was managed, she could '''vote with her feet''', moving her money elsewhere.

====Hypernyms====

* {{l|en|vote}}

==== Related terms ====

* [[foot voting]]

====Translations====
{{trans-top|to express one's preferences through one's actions}}
* Arabic: {{t-needed|ar}}
* Armenian: {{t|hy|քվեարկել ոտքերով}}
* Catalan: {{t-needed|ca}}
* Chinese:
*: Mandarin: {{t+|cmn|棄權}}, {{t+|cmn|弃权|tr=qìquán}}, {{t+|cmn|逃避|tr=táobì}}
* Czech: {{t|cs|hlasovat nohama}}
* Dutch: {{t|nl|met de voeten stemmen}}
* Finnish: {{t|fi|äänestää jaloillaan}}
* French: {{t|fr|aller à la pêche}}, {{t+|fr|voter avec ses pieds}}
* German: {{t|de|mit den Füßen abstimmen}}
{{trans-mid}}
* Hindi: {{t-needed|hi}}
* Italian: {{t-needed|it}}
* Japanese: {{t-needed|ja}}
* Korean: {{t-needed|ko}}
* Polish: {{t|pl|głosować nogami}}
* Portuguese: {{t|pt|votar com os pés}}
* Russian: {{t+|ru|голосова́ть нога́ми}}
* Spanish: {{t-needed|es}}
* Swedish: {{t|sv|rösta med fötterna}}
* Vietnamese: {{t-needed|vi}}
{{trans-bottom}}

===See also===
* {{l|en|revealed preference}}

[[Category:English predicates]]