{{citations|vranyo|lang=en}}
===Etymology===
{{etyl|ru|en}} {{m|ru|враньё|tr=vran’jó||lying, lies}}, from {{m|ru|врать|tr=vrat’||to lie}}

===Noun===

# The phenomenon of semi-lie or semi-truth with a twist of fantasy, [[white lie]]s and suppression of unpleasant parts of the truth.

====mentions====

#* {{rfdate}}, Jacques Tocatlian, ''Around the World in 80 Missions'': 
#*: He proceeded to say that '''vranyo''' was untranslatable. [...] When using '''vranyo''', Russians know that they are fibbing and expect their audience to understand that. 
#* {{quote-newsgroup|date=1996/04/19 1996|author=Charles Trew <db559@FreeNet.Carleton.CA>|title= Re: What makes the Ukrainians like their own children for breakfast?|newsgroup=alt.current-events.russia|url=http://groups.google.com/group/alt.current-events.russia/msg/472a3d1928afe362
|passage=No one could be such an idiot on purpose, you're clearly spreading disinformation in classic, Soviet style. The appropriate term for this is: vranyo.}}
#* '''1994''', John Arundel Barnes, ''A pack of lies: towards a sociology of lying'', page 67:
#*: In Russian culture a distinction is drawn between two kinds of lies, ''vranyo'' and ''lozh'' which do not have exact parallels in English. ''Vranyo'' has been claimed as uniquely Russian, and seems to consist of telling untrue but credible stories, a practice not condemned by those who recognize what is going on. Indeed, for success in ''vranyo''-telling, there must be a listener who pretends to believe in the truth of what is being said. [...] ''Lozh'', on the other hand, implies a conscious intention to deceive.
#* '''1983''', David Shipler, ''Russia: Broken Idols, Solemn Dreams'', page 21-25, 295:
#*: A Russian friend explained ''vranyo'' in this way: "You know I'm lying, and I know that you know, and you know that I know that you know, but I go ahead with a straight face, and you nod seriously and take notes." 

====uses====
#* {{quote-newsgroup|date=Sep 6 2004|author=Raven|title=Re: OT: Beslan school hostage tragedy (Russia, Putin)|newsgroup=alt.fan.tolkien|url=http://groups.google.com/group/alt.fan.tolkien/msg/945cd87ca6dbb8a4
|passage=If the reports from the Russian authorities aren't all vranyo, there were not many Chechens among the Beslan ghouls.}}
* '''2007''', David Shulman, ''From Hire to Liar: The Role of Deception in the Workplace'' ({{ISBN|080144473X}}), page 79:
*: The term ''vranyo'' in Russian describes the subtle collective participation people can have in deception. '''Vranyo''' occurs when one person lies to another, the second person recognizes that the first person is lying, and neither of them acknowledges that any lie was spoken. For example, someone states (knowing otherwise) that he will meet monthly production goals. An audience hears this claim and knows it to be false. No one acknowledges the lie publicly. [...] When a co-worker claims to work incredibly hard but is lying and an observer knows that colleague is lying but does not expose the lie—that is '''vranyo'''. In subsequent chapters, workers demonstrate a strong inclination to '''vranyo'''. '''Vranyo''' occurs routinely in meetings [...] 

====References====
* Fyodor Dostoyevsky: "A Word or Two about Vranyo." ("Nechto o vranye," Diary of a Writer, 1873, XV.)
* R. Hingley: "Famous Vrun's and Their Vranyo's" ( Radio Free Europe /Munich.Research and Evaluation Department Background Information USSR, 1962-5-22)[http://www.osa.ceu.hu/files/holdings/300/8/3/text/60-3-312.shtml]